abnormal differentiation of human papillomavirus-induced laryngeal papillomas . we studied the proliferation and differentiation of human laryngeal papillomas , which are benign tumors induced by human papillomaviruses . immunofluorescent stains of tissues for a number of differentiation-specific proteins showed abnormal differentiation . papilloma tissue fragments in vitro showed a slightly decreased fraction of proliferating cells that incorporated tritiated thymidine and a markedly reduced incorporation of tritiated uridine when compared with normal tissue . we propose that papillomavirus infection results in normal basal cell proliferation but abnormal terminal differentiation and that this abnormality significantly contributes to the hyperplasia of the papillomas . 
cisplatin-fluorouracil interaction in a squamous cell carcinoma xenograft . patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck are treated with cisplatin and fluorouracil according to a schedule based on the findings of clinical studies . a similar schedule showed a supra-additive effect in the treatment of xenografted human squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . we sought to ascertain whether this schedule was optimal . a single intraperitoneal injection of cisplatin ( 7.5 mg/kg ) was combined with three injections of fluorouracil given during a 24-hour period ( total dose , 150 or 80 mg/kg ) before , during , or after cisplatin administration . the combined effect of cisplatin and fluorouracil on tumor growth and toxic effects was schedule dependent . consideration of both toxic effects and tumor growth inhibition , as assessed by reduction of the area under the growth curve , the optimal administration interval was found to be fluorouracil given 3 days after cisplatin administration . 
hla class i and class ii antigen expression on squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . we compared human major histocompatibility ( hla ) class i and class ii antigen expression on squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck with that on normal mucosa . frozen sections of a consecutive series of 30 squamous cell carcinomas were stained with the monoclonal antibodies w6/32 ( class i ) and anti-dr ( class ii ) using an immunoperoxidase technique . normal mucosa showed class i and class ii expression in the basal layers only . class i expression on tumors was diffuse in 87 % , patchy in 10 % , and scattered in 3 % . class ii expression on tumors was diffuse in 20 % , patchy in 53 % , scattered in 20 % , and absent in 7 % . patterns of expression did not correlate significantly with clinical parameters , including survival , except that class ii diffuse and patchy patterns were found to correlate with more poorly differentiated tumors . 
computed tomography of metastatic cervical lymph nodes . a clinical , computed tomographic , pathologic correlative study . a retrospective comparative study of 63 neck dissections was undertaken to evaluate further the accuracy of high-resolution computed tomography ( ct ) in the detection of nodal metastases , as previous studies have indicated a trend toward the superiority of ct scanning over palpation . the respective values of neck examination , ct scanning , and histopathologic examination were assessed in 51 patients with head and neck cancer who underwent a total of 63 neck dissections . the overall agreement between clinical examination findings and histopathologic findings was 92 % vs 81 % for ct scanning . a retrospective analysis of the ct findings failed to reveal greater accuracy . we found nodes measuring 10 mm or more with central low density always to be malignant . because ct scanning seems to offer little advantage over palpation in the nonirradiated neck , it should not be regarded as an essential tool in the staging of nodal disease . after radiation therapy , as neck dissection is only performed because of clinical or radiologic suspicion , ct scanning is of utmost importance . 
pseudocyst of the auricle . case report and world literature review we treated a patient with pseudocyst of the auricle and reviewed the 113 cases previously published in the world literature . pseudocyst of the auricle is an asymptomatic , noninflammatory cystic swelling that involves the anthelix of the ear , results from an accumulation of fluid within an unlined intracartilaginous cavity , and occurs predominantly in men ( 93 % of patients ) . characteristically , only one ear is involved ( 87 % of patients ) , and the lesion is usually located within the scaphoid or triangular fossa of the anthelix . previous trauma to the involved ear is uncommon . the diagnosis may be suggested by the clinical features , and analysis of the aspirated cystic fluid and/or histologic examination of a lesional biopsy specimen will confirm the diagnosis . therapeutic intervention that maintains the architecture of the patient 's external ear should be used in the treatment of this benign condition . 
multiple intracranial mucoceles associated with phaeohyphomycosis of the paranasal sinuses . the purpose of this article is to alert clinicians to a new pathogenic fungus of the paranasal sinuses called exserohilum rostratum . exserohilum species are one of the etiologic agents of phaeohyphomycosis , a constellation of entities caused by dematiaceous fungi . this class of fungal sinus infection has emerged only in the past decade ; it occurs primarily in immunocompetent individuals and produces a tenacious , progressive pansinusitis . to our knowledge , this study describes the first case of multiple intracranial mucoceles secondary to e rostratum . the diagnostic workup includes computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by direct microscopic examination of tissue biopsy specimens . a craniotomy followed by a bilateral external ethmoidectomy was necessary for complete extirpation of the infected mucoceles . aggressive surgical management of this mycotic infection is described . 
osteoma of the middle ear . report of a case . osteomas of the middle ear are rare . we report a case of a 7-year-old boy with osteoma originating from the pyramidal eminence , combined with congenital cholesteatoma . the osteoma and cholesteatoma were successfully removed by tympanomastoidectomy . the long process of the incus and the superstructure of the stapes disappeared . the body of the incus was sculpted and used as a columella . histopathologically , the osteoma was much the same as an external auditory canal osteoma . the possibility of a primary congenital origin of this neoplasm is suggested . 
transoesophageal echocardiography improves the diagnostic value of cardiac ultrasound in patients with carcinoid heart disease . transthoracic and transoesophageal cardiac echocardiography and doppler investigations were performed in 31 consecutive patients with malignant midgut carcinoid tumours . the transoesophageal images allowed measurement of the thickness of the atrioventricular valve leaflets and the superficial wall layers on the cavity side of both atria . the mean thickness of the anterior tricuspid leaflet was significantly greater than that of the mitral valve -- a difference not seen in a control group of age-matched patients without carcinoid tumours and with normal cardiac ultrasound findings . in addition , the edges of the tricuspid leaflets were thickened giving them a clubbed appearance . tricuspid incompetence was detected transoesophageally in 71 % of the patients with carcinoid compared with 57 % by transthoracic investigation . the inner layer of the right atrial wall in the carcinoid patients was significantly thicker than that of the left atrium and that of both atria in the controls . furthermore , patients with other signs of severe carcinoid heart disease had significantly thicker mean right atrial luminal wall layer than those with less or no signs of right heart disease . transoesophageal cardiac ultrasound investigation improved the diagnostic accuracy and seemed to show the structural changes typical of carcinoid heart disease established by histopathological investigations . 
skin exudate levels of interleukin 6 , interleukin 1 and other cytokines in mycosis fungoides . the role of locally released cytokines in inducing lymphocyte activation and infiltration in the skin lesions of mycosis fungoides has been investigated . the levels of selected cytokines were measured in chamber fluid samples from lesional and control skin . biologically active interleukin 6 was significantly elevated in lesional samples and a recombinant form of this cytokine was shown to induce lymphocyte migration in an in vitro assay . biologically active interleukin 1 was detected in all control chamber fluid samples . significantly reduced levels of this cytokine were present in lesional samples , which may be the result of the release of preformed material . interleukin 2 and tumour necrosis factor activity , and gamma interferon and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor immunoreactivity , were not detectable in any of the samples . interleukins 1 and 6 may play a role in the pathogenesis of the lesional lymphocyte infiltrates in mycosis fungoides . 
invasive migration of epidemic kaposi 's sarcoma cells in vitro . kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) is a low grade malignant neoplasm which shows invasive growth and often occurs in immunosuppressed patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ; epidemic ks ) . it is also found in elderly men where it is usually limited to the skin ( classic ks ) . the present study investigated the chemotaxis and invasive migration of epidemic ks cells in vitro and compared them to cells grown from classic ks lesions and to fibroblasts . epidemic ks cells demonstrated invasive migration through reconstituted basement membrane ( matrigel ) as well as through interstitial connective tissue ( collagen i ) in early passages , whereas fibroblasts did not invade either barrier . epidemic ks cells in late passages did not show any invasive migration . following pretreatment with tumour necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) there was no enhanced migration through the matrigel and collagen i for epidemic ks cells , whereas classic ks cells showed an increased migration through the type i collagen barrier . 
lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell activity in b and t chronic lymphoid leukemia : defective lak generation and reduced susceptibility of the leukemic cells to allogeneic and autologous lak effectors . the capacity to generate lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells and the susceptibility of the neoplastic cells to both allogeneic and autologous lak effectors were studied in b and t chronic lymphoproliferative disorders . while in b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) the depressed natural killer function could be restored after a 7-day incubation with recombinant interleukin ( il-2 ) , b-cll mononuclear cells showed a reduced lak activity compared with normal lak cells . furthermore , in all but 1 of the 20 b-cll samples tested the leukemic cells were totally resistant to autologous lak effectors . in most cases the leukemic cells were also resistant to normal allogeneic lak cells . competition experiments demonstrated that the patients ' lak cells , as well as normal lak effectors , were capable of recognizing b-cll cells , pointing , therefore , to a postbinding cytolytic defect . in hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) an overall reduced lak activity against allogeneic targets was documented , but , at variance from b-cll , hairy cells were often susceptible to the lytic effect of normal lak cells , and in half of the cases tested the neoplastic population was also sensitive in an autologous system . similarly to b-cll , in the great majority of t chronic lymphoproliferative disorders studied , the pathologic cells were resistant to normal and autologous lak effectors and a defective lak generation was found . these results demonstrate that in most b and t chronic leukemias the lak function is defective and , when inducible , does not appear directed against the leukemic population . the possibility of exploiting an immunotherapeutic approach with il-2 / lak cells in the management of chronic lymphoproliferative disorders does not gain support by these findings . 
distinct characteristics of lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells derived from patients with b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) . a factor in b-cll serum promotes natural killer cell-like lak cell growth . we show that lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell precursors derived from patients with b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) and cultured in the presence of recombinant interleukin-2 and normal human serum ( nhs ) , develop into primarily nk cell-like ( cd 57 + ) lak cells , whereas identically prepared lak cell precursors from normal subjects develop into mainly t cell-like ( cd 3 + , cd 8 + ) lak cells . b-cll lak cells exhibited greater proliferative capacity than did normal lak cells . when normal lak cells were grown in b-cll serum instead of nhs , their proliferation increased ; nk cell levels also increased to those found in b-cll lak cells , suggesting that b-cll serum contains a factor that promotes nk cell-like growth , lak cells derived from normal or b-cll patients demonstrated similar lytic activity toward k562 and raji cells . growth in b-cll serum did not reduce their lytic potential . thus , the altered phenotype and growth exhibited by b-cll lak cells and normal lak cells grown in b-cll serum does not lead to abnormalities in their cytolytic functions . we propose instead that the predominance of nk-like cells in b-cll lak cell populations and the presence of an nk cell-like growth factor in b-cll serum reflect abnormalities related to nk cell-mediated b-cell regulation ; ie , either inhibition of normal b-cell growth and/or growth stimulation of the leukemic clone in b-cll . 
a new monoclonal antibody ( ch-f42 ) recognizes a cd7 - subset of normal t lymphocytes and circulating malignant cells in adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia and sezary syndrome . we describe a new rat immunoglobulin m monoclonal antibody ( ch-f42 ) that recognizes a subset ( 1.5 % to 8 % ) of normal peripheral blood t lymphocytes . the phenotype of these cells was determined , using dual-color immunofluorescence , to be cd2 + , cd3 + , cd4 + , cd5 + , cd7 - , cd8 - . they do not express t-cell activation markers , and are positive for uchl1 ( cd45ro ) , but negative for 2h4 ( cd45ra ) . the antigen was expressed on circulating malignant cells in sezary syndrome ( four of four cases ) and adult t-cell lymphoma-leukemia ( atll ) ( four of six cases ) and negative in a variety of other hematologic malignancies tested . these included chronic and acute lymphoid leukemias of b and t lineage , together with chronic and acute myeloid leukemias . however , normal ch-f42 + cells do not display any of the ultrastructural features associated with sezary or atll cells . the marked similarities between these conditions together with the shared expression of an otherwise very restricted surface antigen ( ch-f42 ) provide strong evidence for the existence of a common normal counterpart . preliminary characterization studies of the antigen , which is also expressed by k562 and jurkat cells , suggest the ch-f42 antigen is an o-linked , sialated glycan on a glycoprotein . 
characterization of a factor-dependent acute leukemia cell line with translocation ( 3 ; 3 ) ( q21 ; q26 ) . a strictly factor-dependent cell line ( ucsd/aml1 ) was established from a patient with the syndrome of multilineage acute leukemia with high platelets . the patient 's cells and the cell line karyotype were 45,xx,-7 , t ( 3 ; 3 ) ( q21 ; q26 ) , typical of the syndrome of acute leukemia with high platelets . the cell line expresses cd34 , cd7 , tdt , and myeloid ( cd13 , cd14 , cd33 ) and megakaryocyte/platelet ( cd36 , cd41 , cd42b , cdw49b ) antigens . in short-term culture , ucsd/aml1 cells proliferate in response to interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) , il-4 , il-6 , macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) , and granulocyte-macrophage csf ( gm-csf ) , but not il-1 , il-2 , il-5 , or g-csf . in long-term culture , proliferation can be sustained by gm-csf , il-6 , or m-csf . when maintained in gm-csf , a small percentage of cells form multinucleated megakaryocyte-like giant cells . culture with gm-csf combined with il-6 , but not with il-6 alone , increased giant cell formation fourfold to sevenfold . il-6 alone or in combination with gm-csf increased expression of platelet-related antigens . in contrast , culture with phorbol ester induced formation of macrophage-like cells . ucsd/aml1 is the first human acute nonlymphocytic leukemia cell line established from a patient with an acute leukemia syndrome associated with a specific chromosome abnormality . 
expression of transcobalamin ii receptors by human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells . plasma membrane receptors for the serum cobalamin-binding protein transcobalamin ii ( tcii ) were identified on human leukemia k562 and hl-60 cells using immunoaffinity-purified human tcii labeled with [ 57co ] cyanocobalamin . the bmax values for tcii receptors on proliferating k562 and hl-60 cells were 4,500 and 2,700 per cell , respectively . corresponding dissociation constants ( kd ) were 8.0 x 10 ( -11 ) mol/l and 9.0 x 10 ( -11 ) mol/l . rabbit tcii also bound to k562 and hl-60 cells but with slightly reduced affinities . calcium was required for the binding of transcobalamin ii to k562 cells . brief treatment of these cells with trypsin resulted in almost total loss of surface binding activity . after removal of trypsin , surface receptors for tcii slowly reappeared , reaching pretrypsin treatment densities only after 24 hours . reappearance of receptors was blocked by cycloheximide . tcii receptor densities on k562 and hl-60 cells correlated inversely with the concentration of cobalamin in the culture medium . this suggests that intracellular stores of cobalamin may affect the expression of transcobalamin receptors . nonproliferating stationary-phase k562 cells had low tcii receptor densities ( less than 1,200 receptors/cell ) . however , the density of tcii receptors increased substantially when cells were subcultured in fresh medium . up-regulation of receptor expression coincided with increased 3h-thymidine incorporation , which preceded the resumption of cellular proliferation as measured by cell density . in the presence of cytosine arabinoside , which induces erythroid differentiation , k562 cells down-regulated expression of tcii receptors . when hl-60 cells were subcultured in fresh medium containing dimethysulfoxide to induce granulocytic differentiation , the up-regulation of tcii receptors was suppressed . this event occurred well before a diminution of 3h-thymidine incorporation and cessation of proliferation . thus , changes in the regulation of expression of tcii receptors correlate with both the proliferative and differentiation status of cells . 
genotypic characterization of centrocytic lymphoma : frequent rearrangement of the chromosome 11 bcl-1 locus . centrocytic lymphomas are defined in the kiel classification as b-cell lymphomas composed exclusively of cells resembling cleaved follicular center cells ( fcc ) . these lymphomas have been shown to be histologically , immunophenotypically , and clinically distinct from other cleaved fcc lymphomas . dna from 18 centrocytic lymphomas ( 14 patients ) was analyzed using southern blotting and probes for immunoglobulin heavy ( jh ) and kappa light chain ( jk ) joining gene , t-cell receptor beta chain constant gene ( cb ) , bcl-1 , bcl-2 , and c-myc gene rearrangements . all of the lymphomas had jh and jk rearrangements , confirming their b-cell origin . none of the specimens had detectable cb , bcl-2 , or c-myc rearrangements . however , 4 of 14 patients ( 28.6 % ) had rearrangement of the chromosome 11 bcl-1 locus . therefore , centrocytic lymphomas are genotypically distinguishable from the majority of other small cleaved fcc lymphomas by their lack of demonstrable bcl-2 rearrangements . this supports the distinct nature of centrocytic lymphomas and suggests the lack of importance for the putative oncogene bcl-2 in these cases . furthermore , the frequent rearrangement of bcl-1 suggests a possible role for this locus in the pathogenesis of at least some centrocytic lymphomas . 
biology and clinical significance of cytogenetic abnormalities in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia . virtually all cases of childhood all have chromosomal abnormalities and half contain translocations , which are nearly equally divided between random and nonrandom rearrangements . nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities have been correlated with leukemic cell lineage , the degree of cell differentiation , and the specific gene involved at the molecular level . many cytogenetic findings have prognostic significance ; however , the adverse influence of certain changes , including most chromosomal translocations , may in fact be offset by the greater cytoreductive effects of intensified therapy . table 4 summarizes the relation of selected karyotypic findings to treatment outcome in patients treated on contemporary protocols . among all of the chromosomal abnormalities identified in childhood all , hyperdiploidy greater than 50 has been associated with the most favorable prognosis . at the opposite end of the spectrum , the treatment outcome for patients with classical ph + or hypodiploid all is very poor even in programs of intensive chemotherapy ; alternative treatment such as bone marrow transplantation should be considered for such patients . cases with the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) also have a very poor clinical outcome , but the adverse prognosis may be limited to the infant or adolescent age groups . the prognostic significance of other nonrandom translocations , such as t ( 1 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) and several other abnormalities , needs to be further assessed in larger numbers of patients . finally , as more is learned about the molecular pathology underlying these rearrangements , it may be possible to develop new therapeutic agents that are specifically targeted to interfere with the aberrant gene products expressed by human leukemic cells . 
effects of recombinant human interleukin-3 on human hematopoietic progenitor and precursor cells in vivo . dna-synthesis rates and concentrations of bone marrow ( bm ) and peripheral blood ( pb ) progenitor cells were studied in 22 patients treated with recombinant human interleukin-3 ( rhil3 ) as part of a clinical phase i/ii study . recombinant hil3 at doses of 60 to 500 micrograms/m2 was administered by subcutaneous bolus injection for 15 days to 13 patients with solid tumors and preserved hematopoietic function and to nine patients with bone marrow failure , including five with myelodysplastic syndromes . following treatment with rhil3 , the percentage of actively cycling bm erythroid ( bfu-e ) and multilineage ( cfu-gemm ) progenitors in patients with preserved hematopoietic function increased from 16 % to 36 % ( p less than .05 ) and from 10 % to 40 % ( p less than .01 ) , respectively . the dna-synthesis rates of early and late granulocyte macrophage progenitor cells increased from 11 % to 26 % ( cfu-gm day 14 ; p less than .02 ) and from 13 % to 30 % ( cfu-gm day 7 ; p less than .05 ) . there was an increase in bm cellularity from 37 % to 58 % , and of the myeloid to erythroid ratio from 1.4 to 3.2 , while the concentration of marrow progenitors on a per cell basis was unchanged or slightly decreased . the frequencies of blast cells in the bm were unchanged . mean levels of pb cfu-gm day 14 and cfu-gemm were 100 % and 72 % above baseline values after 7 days of rhil3 but only 25 % and 28 % above initial levels at the end of treatment . peripheral blood bfu-e were reduced in the majority of patients with normal marrow after both 7 and 15 days of rhil3 . no augmentation of circulating bfu-e and cfu-gemm was seen in 5 patients with mds who had few or no pb bfu-e or cfu-gemm initially . total leukocyte , neutrophil , and eosinophil counts increased significantly ( p less than .01 ) in 21 of 22 patients with a peak response after a median of 13 days of rhil3 . while a small increase in reticulocytes was not accompanied by an elevation of the hemoglobin or hematocrit , platelet counts increased by 50 % in patients with preserved marrow function . thus , rhil3 induces a multilineage response in vivo , apparently by stimulating proliferation of multipotential and lineage-restricted progenitors . it remains to be determined whether this is due to direct or indirect effects on the progenitor cells . 
the pharmacokinetics of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in the rabbit . the pharmacokinetics of the activated and latent forms of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 ( pai-1 ) isolated from ht1080 fibrosarcoma cells ( ht1080 pai-1 ) and a nonglycosylated form of human pai-1 isolated from a yeast expression system ( rpai-1 ) were followed in the rabbit . as assessed by an immunologic assay specific for human pai-1 , guanidine hci activated ht1080 pai-1 and rpai-1 entered the total plasma volume following intravenous bolus administration and exhibited a biphasic clearance pattern . the t1/2s of ht1080 pai-1 for the initial and beta phases equalled 6.0 and 24.8 minutes , respectively . the t1/2s of rpai-1 for the initial and beta phases equalled 8.8 and 34.0 minutes , respectively . similar results were obtained by measuring pai-1 activity in plasma and with trace amounts of 125i-rpai-1 , suggesting that the above pharmacokinetic behavior could also apply to endogenous pai-1 . the liver was the main site of rpai-1 clearance . unactivated , latent pai-1 exhibited a very different pharmacokinetic profile . over 80 % of latent rpai-1 cleared from the circulation within 10 minutes ( t1/2 = 1.7 minutes ) . the difference in clearance behavior between activated and latent pai-1 may be related to the ability of activated pai-1 , but not latent pai-1 , to rapidly form high-molecular-weight complexes with plasma binding factors which were observed in vitro and in vivo . because pai-1 could potentially tilt the fibrinolytic balance toward a prothrombotic state , its rapid clearance may represent an important control mechanism governing the circulating levels of this key component of the fibrinolytic pathway . 
survival of premenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer . long-term follow-up of eastern cooperative group and cancer and leukemia group b studies . in premenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer , differences in survival curves early during follow-up can be misleading . the authors therefore analyzed long-term survival in 378 patients , entered in three randomized trials , started between 1973 and 1978 . combined data from the three trials were used to increase the power for identifying prognostic variables . cancer and leukemia group b ( calgb ) trial 7382 randomized patients to oophorectomy plus either cyclophosphamide or combination chemotherapy or observation . eastern cooperative oncology group ( ecog ) 2174 randomized patients who had not progressed 3 months after oophorectomy to combination chemotherapy or combination chemotherapy or observation . trial ecog 2177 randomized estrogen receptor ( er ) positive or er-unknown patients to oophorectomy plus combination chemotherapy or immediate combination chemotherapy , and er-negative patients were directly assigned to combination chemotherapy . hence er-negative patients need not have been healthy enough to be randomized to oophorectomy . with only 14 % of the patients still alive , median survival on the three studies was 30 , 24 , and 28 months . the median survival of individual treatments changed noticeably in ecog 2174 and ecog 2177 with long-term follow-up . at this time there are no differences in survival between randomized regimens in any of the three trials . in a multivariate model , factors associated with significantly poorer survival were visceral-dominant disease , nodal metastases , breast metastases , age younger than 45 years , er negativity , and not receiving chemotherapy immediately after oophorectomy . this treatment difference was thus not due to imbalances in the prognostic variables used in the model , but it may be due to imbalances of unknown prognostic factors or differences in patient selection . 
analysis of bladder carcinoma by subsite . cystoscopic location may have prognostic value . nine hundred fourteen cases of carcinoma of the urinary bladder registered from 1977 to 1988 with the kansas state tumor registry were evaluated by subsite for differences in grade , histology , sex , age at diagnosis , and survival . only initial occurrences of carcinoma were included . carcinoma of the lateral walls accounted for 37.1 % ; the posterior wall , 17.9 % ; the trigone , 12.6 % ; the neck , 11.1 % ; the ureteric orifices , 9.8 % ; the dome , 7.7 % ; and the anterior wall , 3.8 % . malignant neoplasms occurring in the neck of the bladder had a significantly poorer prognosis by survival analysis ( p less than 0.05 ) . malignancies of the dome were found to present as higher grade lesions ( p = 0.00003 ) , and carcinoma of the ureteric orifices and lateral walls tended to be of lower grade ( p = 0.02 and p = 0.05 , respectively ) . carcinomas of the anterior wall and dome occurred in a more elderly population ( mean ages , 75.6 and 73.9 years , respectively ) , and carcinomas of the trigone and ureteric orifices occurred in a younger group ( mean ages , 68.3 and 67.5 years , respectively ) . on histologic evaluation the trigone gave rise to more squamous cell carcinoma than expected ( p = 0.001 , 325 % of expected ) . no distribution difference was noted among subsites with respect to sex . these data show significant differences among subsites of the urinary bladder with regard to survival , grade , histology , and age at diagnosis . 
the management of pseudomyxoma peritonei . the management of nine patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei was reviewed . aggressive surgical resection of tumor is the standard of treatment , with many patients requiring multiple laparotomies . chemotherapy , including the use of cisplatin is not effective . long-term nutritional support provides a better quality of survival for select patients . 
chondrosarcoma of bone in children . chondrosarcoma of bone rarely occurs in children . this report analyzes the clinicopathologic features in a series of 47 patients with conventional chondrosarcoma who were less than 17 years of age . of the 47 cases , 14 were from the mayo clinic files , and 33 were from our consultation files . most of the lesions occurred in the trunk and upper ends of the long bones , with the humerus being the most frequent skeletal site . twelve of the 47 tumors were secondary . the radiographic findings were the same as those seen in adult chondrosarcoma . pathologically , the tumors were low grade . en bloc resection is the treatment of choice because of the high incidence of local recurrence with lesser surgical margins . prognosis in childhood chondrosarcoma is no different from that in adult chondrosarcoma . none of the patients with follow-up data had metastasis . 
cancer mortality in a higher-income black population in new york state . comparison with rates in the united states as a whole . in the 1980 census the median family income among blacks in suffolk county , new york ( i.e. , $ 19,604 ) was much higher than that for american blacks as a whole ( i.e. , $ 12,618 ) and 94.1 % of that for american whites ( i.e. , $ 20,840 ) , but the proportion below the poverty level was still higher for suffolk county blacks than for american whites . observed numbers of deaths from 1979 to 1985 for total cancers and most cancer sites in suffolk county black men and women were not lower than expected on the basis of age-specific and gender-specific death rates for blacks in the us . although numbers of deaths from cervical cancer and prostate cancer were slightly lower than expected in suffolk county blacks versus american blacks , these numbers were still significantly greater than expected on the basis of death rates among american whites . age-specific death rates for age groups 25 to 44 years to 55 to 64 years tended to be lower in suffolk county for lung cancers in black men but not for breast cancer in black women . specific cancer sites , which differ in the direction of the association between incidence and socioeconomic status , age , and gender must be considered in comparisons of cancer mortality by race and socioeconomic level . implications of the comparisons were discussed with regard to the goal of reducing racial differences in cancer death rates . 
immunocytochemical estrogen and progestin receptor assays in breast cancer with monoclonal antibodies . histopathologic , demographic , and biochemical correlations and relationship to endocrine response and survival . breast cancer specimens from 600 women were assayed for estrogen receptors ( er ) using an immunocytochemical assay ( ica ) employing the monoclonal antiestrophilin antibody h222 sp gamma . results showed significant correlation with biochemical er determinations as well as with tumor grade and menopausal status . in 449 cases , results of progesterone receptor assay by ica using the monoclonal anti-pgr antibody kd 68 , also correlated significantly with biochemical pgr measurements . the erica/pgrica positivity was significantly more frequent in postmenopausal white women . colloid carcinomas were most likely to be erica positive and pgrica positive whereas medullary carcinomas were most often negative . in 47 patients with advanced mammary carcinoma , results of erica and pgrica were more closely related to endocrine response than those of er and pgr by dextran-coated charcoal assay ( dcc ) . in 339 women with stage i or stage ii breast cancer , erica was significantly associated with disease-free survival . analysis by cox 's proportional hazard model , however , showed pgrica to be the best predictor of survival and disease-free survival in 197 women at the same stages of disease . these data indicate that ica is more predictive of prognosis than biochemical er and pgr . the ease of ica performance coupled with these results indicate that the method is an acceptable substitute for dcc in analyzing breast cancers for er/pgr . 
teniposide ( vm-26 ) and continuous infusion cytosine arabinoside for initial induction failure in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia . a pediatric oncology group pilot study . twenty-six evaluable children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) who failed to achieve initial remission after receiving two to seven drugs for at least a 4-week period were given teniposide ( vm-26 ) and continuous infusion cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) . twenty-two received 150 mg/m2 of vm-26 on days 1 and 2 with 100 mg/2 of ara-c as a continuous infusion on days 1 through 5 ; a second shortened course was given on day 14 to eight patients who had evidence of some antileukemic effect or were clinically judged able to tolerate a second course . the last four patients received three daily doses of vm-26 and a 7-day infusion of ara-c at the same daily dosages . twelve ( 48 % ) achieved complete remission ( cr ) of all . there was a trend toward decreasing response rates with an increasing number of drugs used in the initial induction regimen , i.e. , five cr among seven patients with a prior two-drug induction attempt , six cr among 14 patients with a prior three - to four-drug induction attempt , and one cr among four patients with a prior five - to seven-drug induction attempt ( p = 0.14 ) . ten of 17 non-t-cell patients and two of nine t-cell patients achieved remission ( p = 0.10 ) . the median time required to achieve a complete remission from the initiation of treatment was 26 days ( range , 14-72 days ) . this period was shorter in those who required one course compared with those who required two induction courses , i.e. , 25 days median vs. 44 days median . toxicity was significant and due mainly to marrow aplasia and infection ; one patient had severe prolonged vm-26-induced hypotension . of the 12 patients entering remission , two were removed for marrow transplant and one was removed due to parental request . in the remaining nine patients , median remission duration was only 2 months ( range , 1-18 months ) . all nine patients relapsed in the marrow . among the entire group of 26 patients , only one patient is alive and a long-term event-free survivor ( after allogeneic marrow transplant ) . due to the current use of more aggressive initial induction regimens and the extremely poor prognosis in children who fail to achieve initial remission , more intensive regimens of continuation therapy or alternative therapies , such as bone marrow transplant , should be considered . 
association of disease-free survival and percent of ideal dose in adjuvant breast chemotherapy . the relationship between percent of ideal dose and disease-free survival was examined in 256 stage ii and iii patients who participated in a 2-year breast adjuvant chemotherapy trial consisting of cyclophosphamide , methotrexate , and 5-fluorouracil ( cmf ) given postoperatively . when analyzed analogously to previous work , the results confirmed a dose-response relationship : that is , there appeared to be an improved disease-free survival for patients receiving higher doses of adjuvant chemotherapy . the major criticism of such an analysis is its bias . this bias was addressed by considering only patients who were still receiving therapy at 6 , 12 , and 24 months ; then , the dose-response relationship was no longer seen . although causality can not be inferred , the apparent differences in disease-free survival among the dose groups can be attributed to recurrences in the first 2 years among patients receiving lower doses of chemotherapy . 
doxorubicin for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma . a prospective study on the addition of verapamil . a prospective study was conducted to assess the safety and efficacy of the addition of oral verapamil to intravenous adriamycin ( doxorubicin ) for the management of patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) . all 28 patients studied had histologically verified disease , and cirrhosis was present in 20 of the 21 patients with adequate tissue sampling . the overall median survival was 57 days . chemotherapy was terminated in seven patients after one course of treatment . partial response and complete response were noted in four patients ( 19 % ) and one patient ( 4.8 % ) , respectively , among the 21 patients evaluated . side effects related to the chemotherapy were present in all patients studied . death from fulminating sepsis occurred in three of the 13 patients with leukopenia . symptomatic myocardial dysfunction developed in one patient . the addition of verapamil apparently did not potentiate the tumoricidal effect of systemic adriamycin on hcc but probably did increase its complications . 
a phase i trial of cisplatin in hypertonic saline and escalating doses of 5-fluorouracil by continuous intravenous infusion in patients with advanced malignancies . thirty-four patients with incurable solid tumors were treated in a phase i trial with a fixed dose of high-dose cisplatin ( cddp ) administered in hypertonic saline and escalating doses of infusional 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) . five treatment levels of 5-fu , ranging from 500 to 900 mg/m2/day for 5 days , were studied . leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , and oral mucositis were the dose-limiting toxicities encountered . nephrotoxicity was minimal . ototoxicity and peripheral neuropathies were rare and mild in this patient group , but most patients received only a small number of treatment cycles . diarrhea was not dose-limiting . two complete responses ( one non-small cell lung cancer and one sweat gland carcinoma ) were observed . no other major responses were noted . with the dose of cddp set at 35 mg/m2/day for 5 consecutive days , the maximum tolerated dose ( mtd ) of a concurrent 5-day 5-fu infusion was found to be 900 mg/m2/day . the recommended dosages for phase ii trials are 35 mg/m2/day cddp and 800 mg/m2/day 5-fu for 5 consecutive days . cancers of the lung , breast , gastrointestinal tract , and genitourinary tract would be reasonable targets for phase ii studies . 
treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the skin with cisplatin , 5-fluorouracil , and bleomycin . the authors treated 14 patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma ( scc ) of the skin or lip with one to four cycles of combination chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin by bolus injection , and 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) and bleomycin by continuous 5-day infusion . objective responses were seen in 11 of the 13 evaluable patients ( 84 % ) . four patients had a complete remission ( 30 % ) and seven patients , a partial remission ( 54 % ) . local control after definitive complementary radiation and/or surgical treatment was achieved in seven patients . toxic side effects was acceptable ; they consisted of nausea and vomiting in all patients , transient skin changes , hematologic ( grade 3/4 ) abnormalities in four patients , and pulmonary fibrosis in one elderly patient . these results show that this chemotherapy combination could play a role in reducing the tumor mass and in facilitating definitive treatment to obtain better functional and cosmetic results in advanced scc of the skin . 
effect of intraarterial versus intravenous cisplatin in addition to systemic doxorubicin , high-dose methotrexate , and ifosfamide on histologic tumor response in osteosarcoma ( study coss-86 ) . in osteosarcoma , intraarterial ( ia ) administration of systemic treatment has been advocated to improve local tumor response preparing for , or even obviating , definitive surgery . because data from the literature did not unequivocally support the local superiority of ia infusion , a comparative study was started in 1986 . preoperative chemotherapy consisted of 45 mg/m2 of doxorubicin on days 1 and 2 ; 12 g/m2 of high-dose methotrexate on days 15 and 22 ; and 3 g/m2 of ifosfamide on days 29 , 30 , 50 , and 51 followed on days 31 and 52 by intravenous ( iv ) versus ia tourniquet infusion of cisplatin ( ddp ) . a strict randomization of patients was not feasible . a balanced distribution of risk factors was strived for by stratifying and allocating the appropriate patients centrally . the infusion time was prolonged from 1 to 5 hours in the iv group , and the ddp dose was reduced from 150 to 120 mg/m2 in both arms when intolerable ototoxicity became apparent . a multivariate analysis was performed to exclude a bias on the response rates from risk factor distribution and from modifications of ddp infusion time and dosage . the overall fraction of histologic good responders ( greater than 90 % necrosis ) was not found to be different after ia versus iv treatment ( 34/50 [ 68 % ] vs. 41/59 [ 69 % ] ) . intraarterial instead of iv use of ddp within an aggressive systemic treatment does not seem to improve the local tumor response . 
topographic classification , clinical characteristics , and diagnostic delay of cancer of the larynx/hypopharynx in torino , italy . the case series of a population-based case-control study of laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancers in torino , italy , included 281 men with clinical and anamnestic data . two hundred fifteen , 28 , and 38 cancers originated from the endolarynx , epilarynx , and hypopharynx , respectively . regions invaded by the tumor were divided into 26 subsites . a classification based on the number of invaded subsites was proposed , which agreed well with the t classification of the tnm system . cancers originating from the hypopharynx invaded more subsites than cancers from the endolarynx , and among the latter , supraglottic were more invasive than glottic lesions . the number of invaded subsites was strongly associated with nodal involvement . among symptoms at onset of disease and at diagnosis , patients with endolaryngeal lesions reported dysphonia and dyspnea more frequently , and patients with lesions from other regions had a higher prevalence of dysphagia , odynophagia , otalgia , and adenopathia . clinical and epidemiologic results of this study suggest considering the endolarynx , epilarynx , and hypopharynx as separate anatomic entities . diagnostic delay was not associated with tumor size and showed a negative trend with involvement of cervical lymph nodes , suggesting that stage at diagnosis is due to intrinsic differences in tumor aggressiveness . 
long-term follow-up of 24 patients undergoing radical resection for ampullary carcinoma , 1953 to 1988 . potentially curative radical pancreaticoduodenectomy for ampullary adenocarcinoma was performed in 24 patients over a 35-year period . the overall operative mortality was 12.5 % . actuarial survival rate at 5 years was 61 % + / - 13.4 standard error of the mean ( sem ) and subsequently remained unchanged . in the same time period , 21 patients underwent potentially curative radical pancreaticoduodenectomy for periampullary tumors of pancreatic origin . similar analysis showed an overall operative mortality of 23.8 % and a survival rate at 5 years of 27 % + / - 12.5 sem . the results of radical pancreaticoduodenectomy for ampullary carcinoma in the most recent years ( 1976 to 1988 ) were compared with those of former years ( 1953 to 1975 ) . there were no statistically significant differences in the 5-year survival rate ; however , the operative mortality decreased from 25 % in the former period to 6.3 % in the recent period . survival was dependent on nodal status . the 5-year survival rate was 78 % + / - 11.5 sem in the absence of nodal metastasis versus 50 % + / - 25 sem in the presence of regional nodal metastasis . these findings support the concept that radical pancreaticoduodenectomy offers a realistic probability for cure in a selected group of patients with carcinomas of the ampulla of vater . 
radiographic microcalcification and parenchymal patterns as indicators of histologic " high-risk " benign breast disease . breast tissue from a forensic autopsy series of 486 women ( 15 to 98 years of age ) was studied radiographically and by histologic sampling . prevalence of wolfe p2/dy parenchymal patterns decreased with age . radiographic nonvascular microcalcification and histologic presence of marked ductal epithelial hyperplasia and lobular microcalcification increased with age . both of these histologic parameters of increased risk for breast cancer correlated with the presence of radiographic microcalcification and wolfe p2/dy parenchymal pattern . the predictive value of the radiographic parameters for presence of " high-risk " proliferative fibrocystic change increased with age . 
human papillomavirus type 16 associated with oral squamous carcinoma in a cardiac transplant recipient . human papillomavirus type 16 ( hpv 16 ) has been associated with a variety of squamous carcinomas , particularly those involving the anogenital tract . the authors report the development of an oropharyngeal carcinoma in a 43-year-old man approximately 20 months after cardiac transplantation while he was on a maintenance regimen of cyclosporine a and prednisone . the carcinoma was resistant to treatment , and he died of complications related to metastatic disease 3 years posttransplantation . molecular biologic studies using nonisotopic-labeled viral dna probes were done . in situ hybridization demonstrated the presence of hpv 16 dna in the tumor cells . dna dot blot analysis confirmed the presence of multiple copies of hpv 16 dna within the tumor cells and their absence from adjacent normal-appearing tissue . southern blot analysis suggested that the hpv 16 dna was integrated into the tumor cell genome . with increasing recognition of the carcinogenicity of hpv type 16 infection , a role for this virus in the development of squamous cell malignancies in immunosuppressed organ transplant recipients is likely to be noted with increasing frequency . 
expression of ki-1 antigen ( cd30 ) in mesenchymal tumors . expression of cd30 ( ki-1 ) antigen has long been considered to be restricted to activated lymphocytes and related tumors . however , expression of this antigen has also been detected in embryonal carcinomas , in nonembryonal carcinomas , in malignant melanomas , and even in some myeloid cell lines and macrophages at late stages of differentiation . in this study , using monoclonal antibody ki-1 , expression of cd30 antigen was immunohistochemically examined in frozen sections of 28 benign and 63 malignant mesenchymal tumors . the authors found cd30 expressed in two of four leiomyomas , seven of 11 leiomysarcomas , one of six rhabdomyosarcomas , two of two aggressive fibromatoses , one of three fibrosarcomas , two of four synovial sarcomas , one giant cell tumors of tendon sheaths , all five malignant fibrous histiocytomas , all three osteosarcomas , one of three ewing 's sarcomas , in a tumor cell subpopulation of two of ten malignant schwannomas , and in the schwann cell compartment of one of two ganglioneuromas tested . furthermore , cd30 was consistently expressed in the myoepithelial compartment of 13 fibroadenomas . however , all five lipomas , all seven liposarcomas , all three neuroblastomas , both ganglioneuroblastomas , both chondrosarcomas , and tumors of disputed origin tested were consistently cd30 negative . these findings indicate that , outside the lymphatic system , cd30 antigen is not restricted to epithelial neoplasms but may also be present in tumors of mesenchymal origin . the authors conclude that cd30 antigen , although having limited utility in the differential diagnosis of tumors of questionable histogenesis , may eventually define relevant subgroups within the main tumor categories . 
immunophenotypes in " classical " b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia . correlation with normal cellular counterpart and clinical findings . this study evaluates the expression of a series of membrane antigens , normally expressed by b-lymphocytes of the lymphocytic mantle and marginal zone , in 90 selected cases of " classical " ( mouse red blood cell-receptor + , cd20 + , cd5 + , surface immunoglobulin + / - ) b-chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) with the aim of contributing toward identifying the normal counterpart of b-cll and any correlations between surface antigen pattern and certain clinical characteristics . clustered ( cd23 , 25 , 39 , 40 , 27 , 1c , w75 ) and unclustered ( nub1 , 7f7 , kib3 ) monoclonal antibodies ( moab ) were tested . almost all cases showed high reactivity to cd23 , 27 , w75 , 39 , 40 , and nub1 : expression of cd1c was very low and that of 7f7 , kib3 , and cd25 was variable . the reactivity of 7f7 and kib3 was strictly correlated , and they correlated individually with cd25 . results show that the most frequent b-cll phenotype ( cd19 + , 5 + , 23 + , 27 + , 39 + , nub1 + , kib3 + / - , 7f7 + / - , and cd25 + / - ) corresponds to one or more cellular subsets in the mantle zone . no correlation was found between moab expression , surface immunoglobulin ( sig ) class or type , clinical stage , disease activity , or age at diagnosis . the only difference ( statistically borderline ) was the expression of 7f7 and kib3 ( in young versus old patients ) . this suggests that modulations in the expression of surface antigens do not affect the clinical behavior of the disease . 
significance of blasts in low-cell-count cerebrospinal fluid specimens from children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia . the purpose of this study was to determine whether the presence of more than 5 % blasts in a differential count of cytocentrifuged cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) with less than 6 leukocytes/microliter was predictive of central nervous system ( cns ) relapse in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . a double concentrate method of cytocentrifuge preparation was used to analyze 4543 consecutive csf specimens from 349 children with all between january 1 , 1982 , and september 30 , 1988 . one hundred nine csf specimens from 58 evaluable children had less than 6 leukocytes/microliter and more than 5 % blasts on cytocentrifuge differential count ( low-cell-count specimen with blasts [ lcb ] ) . during the study period , 25 of 332 evaluable children ( 7.5 % ) had cns leukemic recurrence . in 22 of 25 ( 88 % ) , the cns relapse was preceded by at least one abnormal low-cell-count csf specimen . one of 34 patients with a single lcb at diagnosis ( 3 % ) had subsequent cns relapse compared with five of eight patients ( 62.5 % ) with a single lcb during remission ( p = 0.0002 ) . of 16 children with two or more lcb during remission , nine ( 56 % ) had cns relapse defined by standard criteria , whereas six additional patients in this group were declared to be in cns relapse on the basis of their repetitive lcb . whether diagnosing cns recurrence earlier in its course based on a modification of the definition of cns leukemia will change the frequency of subsequent adverse events or make possible decreased intensity of cns retreatment remains to be determined . 
prognostic implication of ecto-5 ' - nucleotidase activity in acute lymphoblastic leukemia . ecto-5 ' - nucleotidase ( 5 ' - n ) activity was determined in 191 patients ( 71 children and 120 adults ) with acute leukemia . elevated values for 5 ' - n were registered in common acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) , but blast cells of t-cell all ( t-all ) and common all antigen-negative non-t-all had low enzyme activity comparable with the values of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia . dependence of remission duration on 5 ' - n activity was analyzed in 74 adults with all , treated similarly in a prospective multicenter trial . the remission curves for all patients with 5 ' - n activity lower than 10 nmol/h x 10 ( 6 ) cells were substantially and significantly better than those of patients with high activity ( greater than 10 nmol/h x 10 ( 6 ) cells ) . this difference was also evident in the immunologic subclass common all . statistical evaluation showed that an interaction between immunologic subtype of the blast cells and their 5 ' - n activity had prognostic significance for remission duration . in addition to the independent factor , initial age , this interaction was also prognostic for survival . 
sex hormone receptors in human thyroid tissues . the behavior of sex hormone receptors was studied in the cytosol of thyroid tissue samples in order to clarify the effects of sex hormones on diseases of the thyroid . androgen receptor ( ar ) , estrogen receptor ( er ) , and progesterone receptor ( pgr ) were assayed using the dextran-coated charcoal ( dcc ) method and analyzed by the method of scatchard . androgen receptor , er , and pgr were negative in all of the cytosol prepared from normal thyroid tissues . however , the positive rates for the receptors in the neoplastic and nonneoplastic tissues were 22 % for ar , 29 % for er , and 18 % for pgr . especially , the incidence of er was significantly higher in neoplastic lesions than normal tissues . these data suggest that sex hormones , especially estrogen , may play a role in diseases of the thyroid . 
lewis system alterations in gastric carcinogenesis . alterations in the expression of type 1 blood group-related antigens ( lewis a and b ) were examined immunohistochemically in 371 consecutives gastric biopsy and 80 surgical specimens from patients of gastric carcinoma . the abh and lewis phenotype and secretor status of the patients were correlated with histologic findings . an anomalous expression of lewis a antigen was found in 88 of 249 gastric biopsy specimens of lewis ( a-b + ) phenotype patients . the prevalence of this anomaly increased with the evolution of the premalignant process , in agreement with the commonly accepted model of gastric carcinogenesis . thus , anomalous lewis a antigen appeared in 66.6 % of gastric dysplasia cases , in 64.6 % of intestinal metaplasia , in 15.4 % of atrophic gastritis , and in 7.4 % of superficial gastritis . no alterations were found in subjects with normal gastric mucosa . forty-seven of the 49 lewis ( a-b + ) phenotype gastric carcinoma patients showed antigenic alterations in tumor cells ( anomalous lewis a antigen in 36 and loss of lewis antigens in 11 ) . in 26 of these gastric specimens an anomalous lewis a antigen was present in areas of intestinal metaplasia and/or dysplasia away from the area of neoplastic transformation . the expression of lewis a antigen in lewis ( a-b + ) phenotype patients is a frequent phenomenon in gastric neoplastic cells and could result from the blocked synthesis of lewis b antigen with accumulation of its precursors . these findings suggest that , during gastric carcinogenesis , antigenic alterations may precede neoplastic transformation . an anomalous lewis a antigen could constitute a significant index of severity of the histologic lesion and contribute to identifying high-risk individuals . 
comparison of dna content in gastric cancer cells between primary lesions and lymph node metastases . cytophotomtric dna contents of tumor cells in primary lesions and the corresponding metastatic lymph nodes were compared in 61 cases of gastric cancer to determine whether the dna content remains stable during lymph node metastasis . the dna distribution patterns were grouped into three types , according to the proportion of aneuploid cell population . changes in dna patterns between primary and metastatic lesions were evident in 36 of 61 patients ( 59.0 % ) ; in the remaining 25 ( 41.0 % ) , the same dna distribution patterns were noted for both lesions . in 33 of these 36 , dna pattern in the primary carcinoma was transformed into a more narrowly scattered one in the metastatic lesion of the lymph node . mean and modal values and the frequency of cells over tetraploid ( 4c ) or hexaploid ( 6c ) were significantly higher in the primary lesion compared with findings in the metastatic lesions . this reduction in dna content in the metastatic lesions was a more frequent occurrence in differentiated ( 18 of 23 ) than in undifferentiated adenocarcinoma ( 15 of 35 ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . therefore , in primary lesions with a widely scattered dna ploidy , the tumor cells with a smaller dna ploidy frequently metastasized to lymph nodes , particularly in cases of a differentiated carcinoma . such observations may be pertinent in future designing of treatment protocols . 
a clinical and flow cytometric analysis of patients with nasopharyngeal cancer . abnormal cellular dna content , a hallmark of malignancy , is known to be an important prognostic factor in many human solid tumors ; however , no data have been published on whether cellular dna content carries prognostic significance for patients with nasopharyngeal cancer ( npc ) . archival , formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded pathology specimens representing pretreatment tissue biopsies from 55 patients ( 41 men and 14 women ) with npc were analyzed for cellular dna content in a retrospective fashion from 1968 to 1988 . individual tumors were classified as either lymphoepithelioma , squamous cell , or anaplastic carcinoma , and were staged according to international union against cancer ( uicc ) criteria . all patients were treated with curative intent using a 4 to 6 mev linear accelerator to total doses ranging from 50 to 60 gy in 4 to 6 weeks . the overall 5-year actuarial survival for all 55 patients was 44.4 % ( men , 41 % ; women , 52 % ) . survival by t stage was as follows : t1 , 65 % ; t2 , 51 % ; t3 , 36 % ; and t4 , 27 % . similarly , the 5-year survival rate declined as the bulk of nodal metastases increased : n0 , 62 % ; n2 , 50 % ; n3 , 37 % ; and n1 , 25 % . patients who had anaplastic carcinoma had a 5-year survival of 73 % , those with lymphoepithelioma had a 60 % survival , and those with squamous cell cancer ( scc ) had a 30 % survival . there was a statistically significant difference in 5-year survival between patients with scc and those with nonkeratinizing histologies ( p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , there was a significant association between patients older than 40 years of age with scc and patients younger than 40 years of age with nonkeratinizing malignancies ( p less than 0.01 ) . of the 55 tumors successfully analyzed , 22 ( 40 % ) were diploid and 33 ( 60 % ) were aneuploid . the mean coefficient of variation ( cv ) of all 55 samples was 6.17 % . there was no significant difference in 5-year survival between patients with diploid and those with aneuploid tumors ( 48 % versus 42 % ) . furthermore , there was no statistically significant survival difference between aneuploid and diploid tumors within any one histologic subgroup . there was also no significant survival difference related to the dna index . the results indicate that the extent of local tumor spread is still the most important prognostic factor for patients treated with radiotherapy for npc . the data support the conclusion that patients with lymphoepithelioma and anaplastic carcinomas have a superior survival to patients with squamous cell carcinoma . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
mucinous adenocarcinoma of the submandibular gland . a rare tumor not easily classifiable among published histologic categories for salivary gland tumors is reported . the neoplasm developed within the submandibular gland of a 78-year-old woman with invasion of the mandible and metastasis to regional lymph nodes . histopathologically , cuboidal cells possessing clear cytoplasm and displaced round nuclei proliferated and exhibited an adenomatous pattern . many cystic spaces surrounded by tumor cell strands were seen , mucus substance filled in the cystic spaces , and the tumor cells seemed mucus-secreting , but neither epidermoid cells nor papillary appearance could be observed . electromicroscopically , numerous mucous droplets of low electron density were prominent in the cytoplasm , and the tumor cells had sparse irregular microvilli on the luminal surface . mucin histochemistry , including paradoxical concanavalin a staining , revealed that the tumor cells contained neutral and acid mucins , and these were identified as class ii and iii mucosubstances . no other neoplastic lesion , except recurrent metastatic neck nodes , has been detected 6 years after the first examination , and it seems that the tumor is a rare primary mucinous adenocarcinoma of the submandibular gland . 
the use of flow cytometry for the prognosis of stage ii adjuvant treated breast cancer patients . characterization of breast cancer cells by histology , flow cytometry , and steroid receptors was performed on 197 stage ii breast node positive cancer patients given adjuvant chemotherapy , plus tamoxifen for patients with positive hormone receptors . histologic and steroid receptor assays were performed using standard techniques ; flow cytometric analysis was performed from paraffin-embedded blocks obtained from the primary tumor . quality control studies on reproducibility , tissue heterogeneity , and analysis procedures have been included . of the 197 patients studied , aneuploidy was found in 102 ( 52 % ) ; the median % s value was 8 % with a range of 0.4 % to 38 % . our results demonstrated that number of positive nodes , receptor status , and grade were of prognostic value . cell cycle kinetic data were not of independent prognostic value in this series . however , ploidy could differentiate in prognosis in the receptor-negative subgroup . patients with receptor-negative tumors had a significantly better overall survival if the tumor was diploid in nature . cell kinetics was not significantly prognostic for either receptor subgroup , although patients with higher % s tended to have better relapse-free and overall survival . this is in disagreement with other studies and may demonstrate that treatment has confounded our results and diminished the ability of flow cytometry data to help predict outcome . 
immunocytochemical characterization of lung tumors in fine-needle aspiration . the use of cytokeratin monoclonal antibodies for the differential diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma . in the current study , immunocytochemical typing of intermediate filaments was used for a differential diagnosis of human lung tumors from transthoracic fine-needle aspiration biopsies ( tfnab ) . the authors have compared the cytologic diagnosis of 53 lung cancer cases with the immunofluorescence patterns obtained using a panel of monoclonal antibodies , five of which ( kg 8.13 , km 4.62 , ks b. 17 , ks 8.12 , kk 8.60 ) react with specific cytokeratin polypeptides and one with vimentin ( vim 13.2 ) . only in six of 23 samples cytologically diagnosed as squamous cell carcinoma did the immunocytochemical typing of cytokeratins ( ictc ) confirm the cytologic diagnosis . in seven cases some of the tumor cells stained positively with antibody ks b. 17 specific for simple epithelial keratin ( no : 18 ) , suggesting the presence of some cells of glandular origin . in ten additional cases the ictc was in conflict with the cytologic diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma ( i.e. , antibodies ks 8.12 and kk 8.60 were negative , and antibody ks b. 17 , positive ) supporting a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma . in 14 of 18 cases cytologically diagnosed as adenocarcinoma , the ictc confirmed the diagnosis whereas in four cases additional presence of some squamous cells was noticed . the ictc labeling of cases cytologically diagnosed as undifferentiated and large cell carcinomas was similar to that of the group of adenocarcinomas . thus , the application of cytokeratin typing for tfnab samples seems to provide a vital complementation to routine cytologic study , especially for cases cytologically diagnosed as squamous carcinoma . 
comparison of the conventional method of lymph node staging with a comprehensive fat-clearing method for gastric adenocarcinoma . discrepant results in long-term survival between united states and japanese patients with resectable gastric adenocarcinoma may result from more accurate staging in the japanese series . the authors compared a comprehensive fat-clearing method with the conventional pathology method of lymph node sampling in 11 patients undergoing curative gastrectomy and extended lymphadenectomy at their institution . comprehensive fat-clearing doubled total lymph node counts ( p less than 0.01 ) , identified smaller lymph nodes ( p less than 0.001 ) , and identified more histologically involved nodes of significantly smaller size ( p less than 0.001 ) . comprehensive fat-clearing pathologically upstaged 29 % of the authors ' eligible specimens . accurate pathologic staging is necessary when comparing japanese and united states survival data for resectable gastric adenocarcinomas . 
neuropeptide y and neuron-specific enolase levels in benign and malignant pheochromocytomas . neuron-specific enolase ( nse ) is the isoform of enolase , a glycolytic enzyme found in the neuroendocrine system . neuropeptide y ( npy ) is a peptide recently discovered in the peripheral and central nervous systems . serum nse and plasma npy levels have been reported to be increased in some patients with pheochromocytoma . the authors evaluated whether the measurement of these molecules could help to discriminate between benign and malignant forms of pheochromocytoma . the nse levels were normal in all patients with benign pheochromocytoma ( n = 13 ) and elevated in one half of those with malignant pheochromocytoma ( n = 13 ) . plasma npy levels were on the average significantly higher in the malignant ( 177.1 + / - 38.9 pmol/l , n = 16 ) than in the benign forms of the disease ( 15.7 + / - 389 pmol/l , n = 24 ) . however , there was no difference in the percentage of patients with elevated npy levels . these results show that determination of serum nse may be useful for distinguishing between malignant and benign pheochromocytoma ; the measurement of plasma npy is not useful for differentiating the two kinds of tumors . 
flow cytometric dna-ploidy analysis of synchronously occurring multiple malignant tumors of the female genital tract . in this study the authors applied flow cytometric dna-ploidy analysis to multiple female genital tract malignant tumors in 43 patients , most of whom ( n = 37 ) had bilateral ovarian cancer . an algorithm was developed for calculation of the likelihood ratio of the probabilities that measured dna index differences between multiple tumor localizations within the same patient could be attributed to measurement variation or to true biologic dna content differences . the results of this statistical analysis show that in 72 % of the cases ( 31 of 43 ) this probability ratio exceeded 1 . because the probability that two independent tumors will have a near-identical aneuploid dna content is very low , this finding supports a metastatic process rather than the occurrence of multiple primary tumors in these patients . thus , flow cytometric dna-ploidy analysis can be helpful in the identification of metastatic disease in patients with multiple female genital tract malignant tumors . 
the relationship between bone morphogenetic protein and neoplastic bone diseases . the monoclonal antibody against bovine bone morphogenetic protein was used for demonstration of bone morphogenetic protein ( bmp ) in neoplastic bone diseases . the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method demonstrated that bmp mainly exists in the cytoplasm of tumor cells of osteosarcoma and chondrosarcoma . immunostaining showed that a majority of osteosarcomas and all of the chondrosarcoma cells contained a large quantity of bmp . conversely , none of the fibrosarcomas showed positive staining . thus , it was possible to differentiate osteosarcomas from fibrosarcomas by immunostaining . in fibrous dysplasia of bone , bmp was abundant in the fibrocellular tissue that had osteogenic activity . in contrast , fibrous tissue of ossifying fibroma showed weak positive staining ; only the osteoblasts rimming the bone showed a positive reaction . immunostaining showed that bmp was also detected in other neoplastic bone diseases such as osteoma , chondroma , and other tumors . 
a newly established human osteosarcoma cell line with osteoblastic properties . a human osteosarcoma cell line , huo9 , was established from a tumor that was heterotransplanted into athymic nude mice . antiserum against nude mouse spleen cells was added to the early passage cultures to eliminate the host fibroblastic cells . the cell line retained a high activity of liver/bone/kidney-type alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) and secreted osteocalcin , i.e. , bone gamma-carboxyglutamic acid-containing protein ( bgp ) , into the medium . the addition of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 ) increased the alp activity as well as the level of bgp secreted into the medium . the alp of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3-treated cells has the same inhibition characteristics to heat and amino acids as that of untreated cells . synthetic human parathyroid hormone stimulated the production of intracellular adenosine 3 ' ,5 ' - cyclic monophosphate ( camp ) approximately 100-fold within five minutes . however , the stimulation was not observed with a synthetic human thyrocalcitonin . when huo9 cells were transplanted into the back of a nude mouse , a tumor with an abundant osteoid formation and mineralization was produced . the results indicate that the huo9 cell line expresses well-differentiated osteoblastic phenotypes . huo9 is the first established human cell line to produce bgp , and it provides a useful model for the studies of osteoblasts and the regulatory mechanisms of bgp production . 
combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for spinal canal surgery in children and adolescents . spinal deformities , especially kyphosis and instability , after laminectomy for tumors and other diseases , are major clinical problems . since 1981 , combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for the prevention of postlaminectomy spinal deformities was performed on eight male and two female patients aged two to 26 years ( average , 13.9 years ) . the follow-up period was from six months to seven years and three months ( average , three years and five months ) . two patients died six and ten months postoperatively because of brain metastases ( astrocytoma ) and lung metastases ( neuroblastoma ) , respectively . good alignment with no instability of the cervical or thoracic spine was obtained for all patients , including the two who died . laminoplasty combined with posterolateral fusion was found to be very effective in preventing the development of spinal deformities after spinal canal surgery for spinal cord tumors or other diseases in children and adolescents . 
oncocytic glomus tumor of the trachea . an oncocytic variant of glomus tumor of the trachea occurred in a 47-year-old woman . she experienced intermittent cough and hemoptysis for about three years . bronchoscopy and chest ct scan showed a small reddish polypoid tumor on the lower end of the trachea . bronchoscopic biopsy was carefully done and was diagnosed as oncocytoma . a wedge resection of the tumor was done . tumor cells were characterized by strongly eosinophilic granular cytoplasm on light microscopy and by numerous closely packed round or ovoid mitochondria with prominent tubular cristae on electron microscopy . they were arranged in a sheet around small vessels , as a result of which the biopsy diagnosis of oncocytoma was changed to oncocytic glomus tumor . to our knowledge , this is the first report of an oncocytic glomus tumor arising from the trachea . 
multicentric endobronchial granular cell myoblastoma . granular cell myoblastoma ( gcm ) is a rare benign neoplasm involving the tracheobronchial tree . it is believed to arise from the schwann cell . four cases of tracheobronchial gcm , all of which were multicentric , are presented and a conservative therapeutic approach is suggested . 
preoperative radiotherapy in operable rectal cancer . the effect of preoperative radiotherapy ( 31.5 gy in 3.5 weeks ) in operable rectal cancer was examined with respect to resectability and prognosis after two surgical procedures , abdominoperineal resection , or low anterior resection . preoperative radiation did not influence the surgeon 's selection of low anterior resection , which was similar ( 40 percent ) in each group . radiation improved five-year survival probability and decreased the incidence of local recurrence significantly after low anterior resection . in contrast , no improvement of treatment results was found in patients treated by abdominoperineal resection after radiotherapy . 
relationship between blood plasma prostaglandin e2 and liver and lung metastases in colorectal cancer . the relationship of prostaglandin e2 , of which a large amount is produced in various neoplasms , and hematogenous distant metastases was investigated in a total of 44 colorectal cancer patients because of its varied pathophysiologic potentials . the authors found significantly high levels of pge2 in local venous blood draining the carcinoma and in peripheral blood in cases with liver or lung metastasis , as well as a significantly large amount of pge2 production in the carcinoma tissue . the results suggest that increased local blood pge2 could enhance the metastasis formation , and increased peripheral blood pge2 may be useful in the detection of such metastasis in colorectal cancer . 
palliative operations for colorectal cancer . a review of 96 consecutive patients who underwent palliative surgery for primary colorectal cancer was undertaken to clarify the value of palliation achieved with surgical treatment . the overall rate of postoperative mortality was 8 percent ( 8 of 96 ) and the overall rate of postoperative morbidity was 24 percent ( 23 of 96 ) . the mortality rate was 5 percent ( 3 of 66 ) after resective surgery and 17 percent ( 5 of 30 ) after nonresective surgery . three deaths were related to the malignant disease , three were related to the intra-abdominal infection , and two were related to formation of intestinocutaneous fistulas . of the 8 patients who died , 1 had a tumor with local visceral involvement only and 7 had a tumor with more distant spread . median survival was 10 months for all patients , 15 months for patients treated with resective surgery , and 7 months for nonresected patients . five patients ( 5 percent ) have survived for longer than 5 years . the median relief of preoperative cancer symptoms was 4 months ( 4 months after resective surgery and 1 month after nonresective surgery ) . twenty-five patients have undergone second surgery . it is concluded that palliative resective surgery for colorectal cancer can improve patient comfort with an acceptable postoperative mortality rate when cancer growth is localized and in favorable cases with more distant spread , whereas nonresective surgery fails to achieve symptom relief . 
rectal bleeding . patient delay in presentation . patient delay in presentation of rectal bleeding has been identified as a factor in delayed diagnosis among patients with colorectal cancer . the aim of this study was to identify demographic or psychological factors , or beliefs or behaviors related to delay in presentation of rectal bleeding . in 93 patients presenting with this symptom to their general practitioner , delay ranged from 0 to 249 days with a median of 7 days ; 27 ( 29 percent ) delayed more than 14 days . delay was unrelated to age , sex , ethnic origin , competence in english , length of schooling , social status , availability of social support , measured psychologic traits , and to the belief that the cause might be cancer . the proportions delaying more than 14 days were statistically significantly elevated among those who were not worried by the bleeding ( 47 percent delayed ) ; those who did not regularly look at their feces or the toilet paper after use ( 37 percent ) ; and those who took some other action before presenting to their general practitioner ( 43 percent ) . 
endosonography of pararectal lymph nodes . in vitro and in vivo evaluation . one hundred thirteen patients with carcinoma of the rectum were evaluated for lymph node metastases by endorectal ultrasound . with the use of 7.5 mhz and based on different echo patterns , two main groups of lymph nodes can be differentiated : hypoechoic and hyperechoic lymph nodes . compared with pathologic findings , hypoechoic lymph nodes represent metastases , whereas hyperechoic lymph nodes are visualized due to unspecific inflammation . lymph node metastases can be predicted with a sensitivity of 72 percent and inflammatory lymph nodes with a specificity of 83 percent . the physical basis of the differentiation of lymph nodes was assessed in vitro by the determination of ultrasound parameters ( speed of sound , acoustic impedance , attenuation , and backscattered amplitude ) . the attenuation coefficient of benign lymph nodes [ 2.5 db / ( mhz x cm ) ] is significantly higher than the mean value of lymph node metastases [ 1.3 db / ( mhz x cm ) ] . the results demonstrate that involved nodes can principally be differentiated from not involved nodes . micrometastases , mixed lymph nodes , and changing echo patterns within inflammatory nodes explain the accuracy rate of 78 percent . 
anorectal malignant melanoma in sweden . report of 49 patients . clinicopathologic features and prognosis of 49 patients with anal malignant melanoma were investigated in the total swedish population between 1970 and 1984 . median age was 71 years ( range , 50 to 87 years ) , and there was a female predominance ( 31 females , 18 males ) . the most common symptom at presentation was bleeding . the majority of tumors ranged between 2 and 5 cm in diameter and all invaded at least into the submucosa and/or the lamina propria . at diagnosis , one third of the patients had either regional or distant metastasis with a median survival of 5 months . the remaining patients were surgically treated with curative intent , either by abdominoperineal resection ( apr ) or local excision . median survival was poor in both treatment groups ( apr , 12 months ; local excision , 13 months ) . most patients died with distant metastasis . our results confirm the opinion that apr offers no more curative potential than a more conservative surgical approach . however , tumor sizes were on average smaller in the group treated by local excision . this could indicate that , in the absence of known distant metastasis , radical surgery should be performed , particularly since local recurrences tended to be more common after a local excision . 
gastric dysrhythmias following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy . possible mechanism for early delayed gastric emptying . transient delayed gastric emptying is reported as a frequent complication following pancreas-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy ( ppw ) . we placed serosal electrodes on the stomach of a patient undergoing ppw . myoelectric recordings were obtained postoperatively and correlated with simultaneous radionuclide liquid gastric emptying studies . the patient developed early postoperative gastric atony , associated with frequent gastric dysrhythmias . these dysrhythmias may have been exacerbated by a perihepatic abscess . the gastric dysrhythmias correlated with alterations in liquid gastric emptying . gastric dysrhythmias may be a mechanism for gastric dysfunction in the early postoperative period . 
characterization and significance of sulfonylurea receptors . this study describes and characterizes a putative sulfonylurea receptor . the radioligand used was [ 3h ] glipizide ( 9 ci/mmol ) . the beta-cell plasma membranes were derived from a transplantable rat insulinoma generated by subcutaneous injection of rinm5f cells and purified by ultracentrifugation on a 15-55 % sucrose gradient . specific binding of [ 3h ] glipizide to purified beta-cell plasma membranes was determined to be maximal at temperatures of 4-23 degrees c , ph 7.3 , and an incubation of 2 h. scatchard analysis indicated a single binding site with kd = 7 nm and sulfonylurea binding of 0.93 pmol/mg membrane protein . displacement of [ 3h ] glipizide from the purified beta-cell plasma membranes by various sulfonylureas and their analogues correlated well with their known hypoglycemic and insulin-releasing activities . various agents , including nutrients , agents affecting ca2 + flux , gastrointestinal hormones , and pancreatic hormones , had no effect on [ 3h ] glipizide binding to the beta-cell plasma membranes . putative sulfonylurea receptors on beta-cell and brain cell plasma membranes have been reported by several groups of investigators . sulfonylurea binding to the beta-cell is hypothesized to close an atp-sensitive k + channel , which leads to depolarization of the membrane and activation of a voltage-dependent ca2 + channel . 
the effect of metoclopramide on ovarian responsiveness to gonadotropin administration in patients with severe polycystic ovarian syndrome . six patients with poor ovarian response to menotropin after pretreatment with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog exhibited improved ovarian responsiveness when metoclopramide was added on days 3 , 5 , and 7 of the cycle . this was evidenced by a higher number of leading follicles ( 4.4 versus 0.6 ) , a higher mean of maximal serum 17 beta-estradiol levels ( 560 versus 178 pg/ml ) , a shorter duration of menotropin treatment ( 7 versus 11 days ) , and fewer ampules of menotropin used ( 20 versus 37 ampules/cycle ) in metoclopramide-treated cycles as compared with control cycles , respectively . serum prolactin levels reached a maximum of 172 ng/ml within 1 hour after metoclopramide administration and declined to normal range within 6 hours . these results suggest that intermittent increased prolactin secretion may augment ovarian response to gonadotropins . 
aromatase activity of human granulosa cells in patients with polycystic ovaries treated with dexamethasone . the effect of dexamethasone ( dex ) ( 9 alpha-fluro-16 alpha-methyl prednisolone ) on secretion of steroids by human granulosa luteinized cells was studied by culturing cells from mature follicles of women with polycystic ovarian disease and treated for infertility in the in vitro fertilization program . patients were treated with dex 0.5 mg/d until the day of human chorionic gonadotropin administration . the cells were cultured for 24 hours in the presence of androstenedione ( 10 ( -7 ) m ) . after incubating for 24 hours , the medium was replaced and the cells were incubated for an additional 24 hours . the medium was then harvested and assayed for estradiol ( e2 ) and progesterone ( p ) . results were compared with those of a control group who was not treated with dex . estradiol production by cells was significantly lower in the study group treated with dex . progesterone production was not influenced by dex . follicular fluid levels , e2 , and androgens did not vary with dex treatment , whereas cortisol levels markedly decreased and p levels increased with the treatment . these findings suggest that glucocorticosteroids can directly influence granulosa luteinized cell function . 
pregnancy after in vitro fertilization in a patient with stage i endometrial carcinoma treated with progestins . a 35-year-old woman with chronic anovulation and bilateral tubal disease was found during infertility evaluation to have grade i endometrial carcinoma confined to an endometrial polyp . she was treated with polypectomy and endometrial curettage followed by high-dose progestagens for 6 months . endometrial curettage at 3 and 6 months of therapy indicated regression of the lesion and the patient subsequently achieved successful pregnancy with ivf . 
strong association between diabetes and displacement of mouse anti-rat insulinoma cell monoclonal antibody by human serum in vitro . in an attempt to identify novel pancreatic beta-cell surface antigens , mouse monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) were raised against rat insulinoma ( rin5f ) cells with standard techniques . several clones were identified whose antibodies bound specifically to rin5f cells but not to other rat , mouse , and human target cells . each of these moabs was radiolabeled , and the specificity of binding of each moab was determined by the ability of excess cold homologous moab to displace the labeled moab . six rin5f cell-specific moabs of different epitopic specificities were identified . the relevance of these beta-cell epitopes to human insulin-dependent diabetes ( iddm ) was demonstrated by the differential ability of human serums from control and diabetic children to displace the radiolabeled moabs from the rin5f cells . serums from 333 children without diabetes or a family history of diabetes and from 156 newly diagnosed iddm patients were tested . only one igm moab was specifically displaced by the iddm serums , i.e. , 146 of 156 , compared to serums from control children , i.e. , 10 of 333 . with immunofluorescence , the serum component responsible for the displacement of the mouse moab was identified as igg . most of the positive control serums were from children with active autoimmune thyroiditis . serums from children with other forms of glucose intolerance did not displace moab 1a2 . there was no correlation between age and the degree of displacement of 1a2 . thus , the displacement of 1a2 is a specific and sensitive marker of diabetes susceptibility easily applicable to mass screening . 
pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor stimulates the growth of rat pancreatic carcinoma cells . pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor was examined for growth-promoting activity on five cell lines using standard cell culture techniques . one cell line , ar4-2j , derived from a rat pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma , responded with significantly increased incorporation of [ 3h ] thymidine and colony formation . pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor stimulated the incorporation of [ 3h ] thymidine in liquid culture ; the maximal increase was 61 + / - 10 % above control ( p less than 0.001 ) and was seen at a concentration of 10 ( -9 ) mol/l . using a soft agarose clonogenic assay , pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor also consistently stimulated ( 3 assays ) colony formation : the peak activity occurred at a concentration of 10 ( -10 ) mol/l which caused a 150 + / - 55 % ( mean + / - se , p less than 0.05 ) increase above control . aprotinin had no effect on the growth of ar4-2j cells and pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor did not bind to the epidermal growth factor receptor . ar4-2j cells were shown to produce pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor . the study raises the possibility that pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor provides autocrine stimulation of tumor cell growth . 
immunochemical characterization and quantitative distribution of pancreatic stone protein in sera and pancreatic secretions in pancreatic disorders . a fluorometric immunoassay has been established to quantitate pancreatic stone protein providing a sensitivity for concentrations from 0.015 to 0.5 micrograms/ml . when concentrations of pancreatic stone protein were determined from pancreatic secretions obtained either from patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis ( n = 31 ) [ including the calcifying forms ( n = 10 ) ] , pancreatic cancer ( n = 22 ) , or nonpancreatic diseases ( n = 17 ) , no significant differences were found . in contrast , increased concentrations were found in serum samples from patients with chronic ( 39/66 ) and acute pancreatitis ( 16/20 ) compared with control patients . the differences between these diagnostic groups and controls were highly significant ( p less than 0.0001 ) and independent of pancreatic enzyme activity . immunochemical analyses of serum pancreatic stone protein showed an isoelectric point ( ph 9 ) similar to that reported for the pancreatic thread protein . with respect to recent communications , these data do not support the etiopathogenic role postulated for pancreatic stone protein in chronic pancreatitis and chronic calcifying pancreatitis by other investigators . 
endoscopic retrograde brush cytology . a new technique . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography has been shown to be a very valuable adjunct in the diagnosis of malignancy involving the biliary and/or pancreatic ductal system . however , characteristic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography radiographic findings associated with malignant strictures are frequently not specific and cytological confirmation becomes essential for the diagnosis . unfortunately , the current overall diagnostic yield of positive cytology in such circumstances ranges from 18 % -56 % depending on the technique . a new brush device has been designed which is uniquely adapted to pancreaticobiliary strictures of varying anatomical configurations . this study shows results using this new cytology brush in a series of 53 patients with pancreaticobiliary malignancy . a significant improvement in the cytological yield of tumor confirmation was obtained with a diagnostic sensitivity of 70 % and specificity of 100 % using the new brush technique . 
resolution of inferior vena cava syndrome after embolization of a hepatic adenoma . a 77-year-old man presented with severe pruritus and massive lower body edema . computerized axial tomography of the abdomen showed a large hepatic mass compressing the inferior vena cava , and a liver biopsy specimen showed hepatic adenoma . embolization of vessels feeding the hepatic tumor resulted in complete resolution of pruritus and ascites , and clinical remission has persisted for 1 year following partial obliteration of tumor vasculature . angiographic ablation of tumor blood supply represents a nonoperative means for inducing clinical remission in patients with symptomatic hepatic adenoma who are at high surgical risk . 
misdiagnosis of the zollinger-ellison syndrome due to hyperlipidemia . most authorities feel that diagnosis of the zollinger-ellison syndrome is established when the serum gastrin level is greater than 1000 pg/ml ( 1000 ng/l ) in a patient with gastric acid hypersecretion and clinical manifestations consistent with the diagnosis . a patient with recurrent peptic ulcer disease is reported who was thought to have had the zollinger-ellison syndrome based on two serum gastrin level measurements greater than 1000 pg/ml ( 1000 ng/l ) . subsequent evaluation revealed the gastrin elevation to be spurious because the sample was hyperlipidemic . lipemic serum samples may yield falsely elevated serum gastrin determinations as determined by radioimmunoassay . 
late recurrence of a hepatocellular carcinoma in a patient with incomplete alagille syndrome . in this study , the case of a patient presenting a second hepatocellular carcinoma 13 years after resection of a first tumor of the same type is reported . in this case , etiological investigations remained negative , but an incomplete form of syndromatic alagille syndrome with paucity of bile ducts in the nontumoral tissue was detected and associated with nodular regenerative hyperplasia and foci of dysplasia . malignant transformation in alagille syndrome seems to be extremely rare . the fact that such tumors evolve very slowly could be an argument for partial hepatectomy and , if necessary , liver transplantation . 
endoscopic ultrasonography for the evaluation of smooth muscle tumors in the upper gastrointestinal tract : an experience with 42 cases . before surgery , 12 patients with suspected leiomyoma and 12 patients with suspected leiomyosarcoma were studied by endoscopic ultrasonography ( eus ) , computed tomography ( ct ) , endoscopy , and barium swallow . the results were correlated with surgery and histology . ten leiomyomas , one benign gastric ulcer , one carcinoid metastasis , eight leiomyosarcomas , two leiomyoblastomas , one mucus secreting adenocarcinoma , and one bronchial carcinoma were diagnosed . eighteen additional patients suspected to have benign submucosal lesions by endoscopy and barium meal were treated non-surgically , and studied by eus and ct . eus was superior to other imaging techniques in the detection , staging , and follow-up of submucosal smooth muscle tumors because of clear imaging of the intramural abnormality and adjacent lymph nodes . 
endoscopic palliative intubation of the esophagus invaded by lung cancer . thirty-two patients with esophageal involvement by lung cancer were managed by endoscopic intubation . in 22 patients with extrinsic esophageal strictures , the success rate of intubation was 91 % , and 82 % were discharged with their dysphagia relieved and esophageal patency restored . the mean survival rate was 4.4 months . in 10 patients with esophago-bronchial fistulas , 3 had the fistulous tract obliterated and lived a mean of 5 months . this low success rate of closing fistulas is due to failure to seal off the space between the stent and the fistula because of absence of tumor-associated stenosis . the overall morbidity rate was 28.1 % ( 18.8 % perforation , 6.3 % hemorrhage , and 3.1 % tracheal obstruction ) . the overall mortality rate was 18.8 % . although complications were more frequent than in primary esophageal tumors , endoscopic intubation was the only way to palliate this desperate condition and provided 66.6 % of patients with relief of symptoms , nutritional improvement , and a mean survival time of 4.5 months . 
low diacylglycerol values in colonic adenomas and colorectal cancer . the biochemical events that make colonic epithelial cells proceed along the adenoma-carcinoma sequence are not well understood . the phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway is involved in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation . to determine its role in colonic neoplasias we performed mass measurements of its second messenger sn-1 ,2 - diacylglycerol in biopsy specimens from normal mucosa and neoplasias of the colon . normal colonic mucosa was also investigated in patients without colonic abnormalities ( n = 10 ) . compared with pooled diacylglycerol values from five colonic sites ( 100 % ) , values in patients with a normal colon were highest in the ascending colon ( 120 ( 5 ) % , p less than 0.05 ) and lowest in the rectum ( 81 ( 5 ) % , p less than 0.01 ) . absolute diacylglycerol values in patients with normal colons ( 2.62 ( 0.16 ) nmol/mg protein ) were not significantly different from those found in the normal mucosa of patients with colorectal neoplasias ( 2.45 ( 0.17 ) nmol/mg protein ) . both colonic adenomas ( n = 15 ) and colorectal carcinomas ( n = 14 ) showed significantly decreased diacylglycerol values compared with the adjacent normal mucosa of each patient ( 72 ( 4 ) % , p less than 0.001 , and 71 ( 4 ) % , p less than 0.001 respectively ) . the appreciable decrease in mass diacylglycerol values clearly distinguishes adenomas and carcinomas of the colon from the surrounding normal mucosa . this finding suggests that profound metabolic changes of the phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway occur early in the adenoma-carcinoma sequence and may be important in colonic carcinogenesis . 
adult hepatic fibropolycystic disease presenting as obstructive jaundice . obstructive jaundice caused by compression of the common hepatic duct by a simple hepatic cyst in a 31 year old europid man is reported . the jaundice and duct compression resolved after percutaneous aspiration of the cyst under ultrasound direction and the patient has been well for 12 months . 
high grade dysplasia of the gastric mucosa : a marker for gastric carcinoma . the natural history of gastric epithelial dysplasia and its relation to gastric cancer are ill defined . a consecutive series of 40 patients with an initial diagnosis of gastric epithelial dysplasia based on examination of endoscopic biopsies has been reviewed to determine the clinical outcome and to evaluate a two tier histological grading system as a predictor of the risk of cancer . on review , only 20 of the 40 patients were considered to have true dysplasia : seven patients had low grade dysplasia and 13 had high grade dysplasia . of the 13 patients with high grade dysplasia , 11 ( 85 % ) were found to have gastric cancer within 15 months . of the 10 patients with high grade dysplasia who underwent gastrectomy , six were found to have early gastric cancer , three had cancer invading into the muscularis propria , and none had lymph node metastases . high grade dysplasia is thus a marker of gastric cancer . moreover , the cancers associated with high grade dysplasia are usually pathologically favourable and curable . the finding , by an experienced pathologist , of high grade dysplasia in two separate sets of endoscopic biopsies is therefore an indication for radical surgical treatment , provided that the patient 's age and general condition permit such an approach . 
growth of group a rotaviruses in a human liver cell line . recent observations in children with rotavirus gastroenteritis and in infant mice given rotavirus vaccine by oral administration suggest that this well-known gastrointestinal pathogen may infect the liver . to examine this possibility , the susceptibility of hep g2 cells to infection with a variety of rotavirus strains was tested . these cells were used because they are considered to be well differentiated and exhibit many liver-specific functions . the hep g2 cells supported the growth of the simian strain rhesus rotavirus ( mmu 18006 ) , a strain currently being used in vaccine trails , but did not support the growth of any human strain ( d , ds1 , price or st3 ) . the rhesus rotavirus infection was cytopathic and resulted in release of lactate dehydrogenase . rhesus rotavirus growth in hep g2 cells displayed trypsin-enhanced infectivity and was inhibited by pretreatment of cells with arthrobacter ureafaciens neuraminidase but not with neuraminidase from clostridium perfringens . hep g2 cells were also permissive for another simian strain ( sa11 ) , a bovine strain ( uk ) and single gene substitution reassortants containing vp7 ( the major outer capsid neutralization protein ) from a human rotavirus strain and the remaining 10 genes from either rhesus rotavirus or uk . in general , uk and its reassortants produced lower levels of antigen than did rhesus rotavirus and its reassortants . hep g2 cells and other hepatic cell lines may prove to be useful tools to explore the hepatotropic potential of wild-type rotaviruses and candidate vaccine strains . 
hbv-dna sequences in tumor and nontumor tissue in a patient with the fibrolamellar variant of hepatocellular carcinoma . one patient with the fibrolamellar variant of hepatocellular carcinoma was found to be seropositive for hbsag and anti-hbe . dna from tumor and nontumor areas of the liver was examined by molecular hybridization for hepatitis b virus dna sequences . undigested dna from the tumor gave a high-molecular-weight smear , and restriction-enzyme analysis indicated a single instance of integration . nontumor liver tissue was analyzed from three separate areas . hepatitis b virus dna was detected in two of these ; restriction-enzyme digestion suggested they contained different sites of viral integration . as with the typical hepatitis b virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma , analysis of hepatitis b virus dna from nontumorous liver yielded a different pattern of high-molecular-weight bands , indicating that the virus genome had integrated at different chromosomal locations than that seen in the tumor . the finding of integrated hepatitis b virus dna , especially in tumorous but also in nontumorous liver , would be consistent with an oncogenic role for hepatitis b virus in certain instances of fibrolamellar tumors and in the more typical hepatitis b virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma . 
prospective study of early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with cirrhosis . we prospectively monitored 140 cirrhotic patients for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma for 6 yr , using periodical screening by high-resolution convex-array ultrasonography and alpha-fetoprotein . twenty-eight patients were positive for hbs antigen , 26 patients had received blood transfusions and were negative for hbs antigen and 26 patients had a history of heavy drinking . we detected hepatocellular carcinoma in 40 patients during this period . the overall cumulative incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in the 6 yr was 39 % ; the cumulative incidence was 59 % in patients with hbsag , 53 % in patients who had had blood transfusions and were negative for hbsag and 22 % in patients who had a history of heavy drinking and who were without hbsag . detection of the carcinoma in 85 % of these 40 patients was based on results of ultrasonography . twenty-six of the patients ( 65 % ) had a small hepatocellular carcinoma of 2 cm or less . alpha-fetoprotein levels were lower than 100 ng/ml in 56 % of these 40 patients . patients with cirrhosis are at high risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma , especially patients with hbsag or with a history of blood transfusion who are negative for hbsag . periodic monitoring by use of ultrasonography in particular is recommended for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma . 
diagnostic value of brush cytology in the diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma : a study in 65 patients with bile duct strictures . malignant strictures of the extrahepatic bile ducts are difficult to distinguish from benign strictures , particularly in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis . because attempts at diagnosing small cancers with fine-needle aspiration biopsy are not possible in the absence of an associated mass lesion and because the sensitivity of exfoliative biliary cytology is controversial , brush cytology has been used as a potential means of establishing a specific diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma . herein we report our experience with this technique when performed on 65 patients over a 5-yr period . each had at least one brushing . thirty-seven were found to have bile duct carcinoma and 28 were found to have benign strictures . of these 37 , the first brushing was positive for malignancy in 15 ( 40 % ) , whereas four ( 11 % ) had cells suspected but not diagnostic of malignancy . thirteen patients with bile duct carcinoma whose initial brushings were negative for malignancy had second brushings . of these , five ( 38 % ) had malignant cells , whereas three ( 24 % ) yielded suspicious cells . three of the eight whose first two brushings were negative for malignancy were found to have malignant cells on the third brushing . in contrast , of the 28 patients with benign strictures , malignant cells were never found . however , in two patients , suspicious cells were reported with the first but not the second brushing . a single negative or suspicious cytological finding decreased the probability of bile duct carcinoma to 43 % . two and three sequential negative tests reduced the probability to 32 % and 0 % , respectively . 
prognostic factors of hepatocellular carcinoma in the west : a multivariate analysis in 206 patients . to investigate the prognostic factors in western patients with hepatocellular carcinoma , 206 patients with confirmed diagnoses of hepatocellular carcinoma were studied in terms of survival . all patients were diagnosed between 1983 and 1987 . a multivariate survival analysis ( cox regression model ) using clinical , biochemical , ultrasonographical and pathological data obtained at diagnosis disclosed that bilirubin ( p = 0.0001 ) , ascites ( p = 0.0001 ) , toxic syndrome ( defined by the presence of weight loss greater than 10 % premorbid weight , malaise and anorexia ) ( p = 0.009 ) , blood urea nitrogen ( p = 0.025 ) , tumor size ( p = 0.001 ) , gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase ( p = 0.0006 ) , age ( p = 0.0005 ) , serum sodium ( p = 0.003 ) and presence of metastases ( p = 0.002 ) were independent predictors of survival . according to the contribution of each of these factors to the final model , a prognostic index was constructed allowing division of patients in different groups according to their relative risk of death : rrd = exp ( age x 0.03 + ascites x 0.8281 + bun x 0.0137 + serum sodium x ( -0.0538 ) + gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase x 0.0019 + bilirubin x 0.0734 + tumor size x 0.33 + toxic syndrome x 0.4965 + metastases x 0.55 ) . these results facilitate the stratification of hepatocellular carcinoma patients to design and evaluate future controlled trials . 
review of hepatic imaging and a problem-oriented approach to liver masses . we believe that imaging of the liver is complicated . the sporadic appearance of incidental benign lesions and variability in scanning techniques , equipment and artifacts add difficulties to the evaluation of liver masses . therefore we emphasize the need to define the problem for which the patient is being imaged . this information helps in choosing the procedure of choice and the technique needed to give the most expedient , accurate answer . this will also help apply the lowest risk and most cost-efficient care . imaging algorithms vary depending on the suspected pathological conditions . dynamic bolus-enhanced ct is the modality of choice in most situations . tc99m sulfur-colloid liver-spleen scans are helpful in patients with suspected fnh , and tc99m-tagged-rbc-spect scans are recommended to confirm cavernous hemangiomas . cysts are easily confirmed by us . although mri is competitive with ct , it has not become a primary modality because of cost , availability , patient selection and variability of scanner capabilities among the many manufacturers and models . it is hard to predict what future development of imaging techniques will bring . many feel that significant advances have plateaued . time and money will more likely be concentrated on improving image resolution , speed of scanning and ability to transfer this information to sites outside of the radiology department . in addition to faster scanning , we expect to soon have available safe intravenous and enteric contrast agents for mri . certainly this will lead to a new round of investigations to compare mri with ct scanning . 
a surgical approach to the cervicothoracic spine . we describe a method for approaching the lower cervical and upper thoracic spine , the brachial plexus and related vessels . the method involves the elevation of the medial corner of the manubrium , the sternoclavicular joint , and the medial half of the clavicle on a pedicle of the sternomastoid muscle . we have used this exposure in 17 cases with few complications and good results . its successful performance requires high standards of anaesthesia , surgical technique and postoperative care . 
unusual haemostasis for an unusual tumour . catastrophic bleeding from a tactile neurofibroma affecting the thoracic vertebrae . case report . the symptomatology of a typical acute descending thoracic aorta dissection was imitated by profuse haemorrhage caused by a benign tumour composed almost exclusively of wagner-meissner like tactile corpuscles and fatty tissue . the tumour caused extensive destruction of the bodies of the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae at the level of the vertebro-costal articulation . emergency cross clamping of the descending aorta and haemostasis of the bleeding from osteal defects by tamponade with bone polymethyl methacrylate appeared the only way to control the life threatening haemorrhage . it seems that an intrathoracic tactile neurofibroma with a similar case history has not been reported till now . 
left ventricular fibroma : echocardiographic diagnosis and successful surgical excision in three cases . the management of three patients with left ventricular fibromas is outlined . all were asymptomatic children . routine chest radiography suggested cardiac masses . m-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography were valuable adjuncts to conventional angiography in assessing these children . electrocardiographic changes , present in all cases , were shown to regress postoperatively . we stress the importance of these noninvasive aids in the initial investigation and outline our operative methods of reconstruction . 
deletion of alu sequences in the fifth c-sis intron in individuals with meningiomas . an abnormality in the c-sis protooncogene was identified in leukocyte dna from members of a family predisposed to the development of meningioma , and was found to be associated with the development of the tumor in those individuals . molecular analysis of this abnormality demonstrated a deletion within the fifth intron of the c-sis gene . the normal c-sis gene has an alu sequence in this region which includes two perfect 130 nucleotide repeated sequences separated by 5 bp . the deleted c-sis allele is missing precisely one copy of the 130 bp repeat and the intervening 5 bp . an identical deletion was also found in dna from 1 of 13 sporadic meningiomas . 
use of monoclonal antibody kp1 for identifying normal and neoplastic human mast cells . the monoclonal antibody kp1 ( cd68 ) was used to stain normal and neoplastic monocytes and macrophages in routinely processed , paraffin wax embedded tissue : mast cells also exhibited strong , consistent cytoplasmic immunoreactivity . light microscopic findings were corroborated by electron microscopical and immunocytochemical findings . the predominant sites of immunoreactivity were the specific intracytoplasmic granules of the mast cells . all mast cell subtypes -- that is , normal and reactive mast cells , such as those in lymph nodes exhibiting chronic non-specific lymphadenitis , and malignant or neoplastic mast cells in various types of mastocytosis -- reacted with this antibody . this finding is of diagnostic importance , because mast cell proliferation could be mistaken for histiocyte proliferation . it also supports the hypothesis that mast cells derive from the bone marrow . 
testicular sex cord stromal tumour with granulosa cell differentiation : detection of steroid hormone receptors as a possible basis for tumour development and therapeutic management . a testicular sex cord stromal tumour with granulosa cell differentiation , typical of granulosa cell tumours of the adult type , was investigated immunohistologically on snap frozen and paraffin wax embedded material . the predominance of vimentin and the additional expression of cytokeratin subtypes 8 and 18 , as well as the negative staining for epithelial membrane antigen , accorded with results previously reported , for ovarian granulosa cell tumours ; the lack of expression of desmoplakin , however , was a distinctive feature . together with negative staining for leucocyte common antigen , the antigen pattern facilitates the differential diagnosis between granulosa cell tumour and undifferentiated carcinoma or gonadal lymphoma , although its suitability for differentiating within the group of gonadal stromal tumours seems to be limited . the small growth fraction , shown by the monoclonal antibody ki-67 , is typical of the clinical behaviour of granulosa cell tumours . the expression of oestrogen and progesterone receptors , also recently found in testicular leydig cell tumours , may provoke new approaches to the management of testicular granulosa cell tumours , as well as a new hypothesis on the development of these tumours . 
upper gastrointestinal pathology in familial adenomatous polyposis : results from a prospective study of 102 patients . multiple gastric and duodenal biopsy specimens from 102 asymptomatic patients with familial adenomatous polyposis , taken during a prospective endoscopic screening programme were examined . one hundred patients had microscopic gastroduodenal pathology , often in the absence of macroscopic lesions . adenomas were found in 94 patients in the duodenum , in the second and third parts . hyperplasia of villous and crypt epithelium was also seen , sometimes in the absence of adenomas : this may be a precursor of neoplastic change . in the stomach fundic gland polyps were the commonest abnormality , seen microscopically in 44 patients . chronic antral gastritis was common in patients without fundic polyps . gastric adenomas were present in six patients , all of whom also had duodenal adenomas . if duodenal adenomas in familial adenomatous polyposis have a similar malignant potential to those in the colorectum sequential endoscopy and biopsy are necessary to detect cancer in these patients . 
effect of sample volume on yield of positive blood cultures from adult patients with haematological malignancy . six hundred and sixteen blood samples from patients with haematological malignancy were each distributed equally among three identical cells in a malthus microbiological growth analyser . the mean ( sd ) volumes inoculated into sets in which one , two , or three of the three bottles were positive were 37.7 ( 10.1 ) ml , 37.4 ( 12.9 ) ml , and 37.7 ( 10.5 ) ml , respectively . overall , clinically important organisms were isolated from one bottle only with 18 cultures , from two bottles only with 19 cultures , and from all three bottles in a set with 104 cultures . if the yield from a single bottle inoculated with a mean volume of 12.6 ml blood is taken as 100 % , the yield from 25.2 ml in two bottles was 110.7 % and the yield from 37.7 ml in three bottles was 115.6 % . the increased yield from increased volume was considerably lower than that reported from unselected groups of patients , which suggests that the magnitude of bacteriaemia is greater in patients with neutropenia . the isolation of infecting organisms from the blood of patients with neutropenia is , however , particularly important in directing chemotherapy and consequently 45 ml blood samples from these patients continue to be requested . 
activation and inducer subset phenotype of the lymphocytic infiltrate around epidermally derived tumors . an in situ analysis of the mononuclear cell infiltrate found in association with a range of benign , premalignant , and malignant epidermal tumors is described . the predominant cell phenotype was that of the recently described immunoregulatory helper/inducer t lymphocyte . a large number of lymphocytes expressed antigens associated with cellular activation , suggesting an ongoing immunologic response by the host against the tumor , although evidence of in situ proliferation of these cells was lacking . these findings suggest that the infiltrate found in association with cutaneous tumors does not represent passive accumulation of lymphocytes from the circulation but rather an active antitumor response . 
benign lymphangioendothelioma . we have studied eight cases of an acquired lymphatic endothelial lesion for which we propose the name " benign lymphangioendothelioma . " the lesions developed as solitary , slowly extending , erythematous macules and plaques , usually occurring on the extremities or the shoulders in adolescents or adults . the characteristic histopathologic feature is permeation of the dermal collagen by flattened , endothelium-lined channels and spaces . hemorrhage , iron deposition , and inflammation were not part of the lesion . ulex europaeus agglutinin i labeled the lesional endothelial cells consistently , but factor viii-related antigen labeling was negative . this histologic pattern and the special studies suggested a lymphatic lesion . surgical excision , performed in six patients , was not followed by recurrence . 
absence of estrogen receptors in dysplastic nevi and malignant melanoma . benign nevi , dysplastic nevi , and primary and metastatic malignant melanomas were evaluated for the presence of sex hormone binding and estrogen receptor protein . we have confirmed the observation of ellis et al . that some pigmented lesions possess sex hormone-binding proteins . we could not demonstrate a true estrogen receptor in any benign nevi , dysplastic nevi , primary melanomas , or metastatic melanomas . thus the ability to bind estrogen or progesterone does not correlate with the presence of a true estrogen receptor . lack of nuclear estrogen receptors suggests that the influence of estrogen on the pathophysiology of melanoma or of benign melanocytic nevi may not be significant . 
incidence of cutaneous t cell lymphoma and other rare skin cancers in a defined population . between 1970 and 1984 in rochester , minnesota , rare skin cancers developed in 15 local residents : cutaneous t cell lymphoma ( six subjects ) , dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans ( four ) , adenocarcinoma of sweat glands ( two ) , merkel cell carcinoma ( one ) , liposarcoma ( one ) , and extramammary paget 's disease ( one ) . these cases were identified through a unique computerized retrieval system that is maintained at the mayo clinic for the population of rochester , minnesota . the annual incidences of these cancers in the rochester population were 0.9 , 0.5 , 0.3 , 0.2 , 0.2 , and 0.2 per 100,000 residents , respectively ( standardized to 1980 u.s. population ) . to our knowledge , this is the first report of the incidences of these rare skin cancers in a well-defined population . 
cutaneous surgery and the pregnant patient . cutaneous surgery in 34 pregnant women is described . the main indication for surgery was the diagnosis and/or treatment of malignancy . surgery during the period of organogenesis ( 15 to 56 days ) should be avoided when possible . patients should be positioned on the left side during the procedure to avoid the supine hypotensive syndrome . monitoring of the fetal heartbeat is desirable . local anesthetics , penicillin , and erythromycin are safe if used carefully . acetaminophen is the analgesic of choice . exposure to the sun should be avoided during the perioperative period . 
comparison of methods for checking surgical margins . surgical margins of a cutaneous neoplasm can be evaluated by various combinations of three major types of sections : vertical ( perpendicular ) , horizontal ( parallel ) , and oblique ( mohs method ) . vertical sections may run transversely through tumor ( breadloaf method ) , longitudinally through tumor ( breadloaf-cross method ) , or peripheral to the tumor . the peripheral ( perimeter ) sectioning methods are the only methods that can evaluate almost 100 % of the margin , but they have the disadvantage of not showing the relationship of the tumor to its margin , which can be seen clearly with the vertical transverse sections . seven methods of checking surgical margins are compared and contrasted . none of these is judged to be perfect or best . 
years of potential life lost : another indicator of the impact of cutaneous malignant melanoma on society . years of potential life lost ( ypll ) is an indicator of premature mortality that complements traditional incidence and mortality rates and that facilitates comparisons among different cancers . we calculated ypll from cutaneous melanoma and 11 other cancers routinely recorded and tracked by surveillance , epidemiology and end results ( seer ) . ypll from cutaneous melanoma ranked eighth for persons younger than 65 years of age and fourth for those 20 to 49 years of age . an average of 17.1 ypll per death were due to melanoma , one of the highest rates for adult-onset cancers . the results of our study , the first to apply ypll to cutaneous melanoma , emphasize the disproportionate impact of this cancer on young and middle-aged adults and reemphasize the importance of this cancer as a public health priority . 
trends in basal cell carcinoma , squamous cell carcinoma , and melanoma of the skin from 1973 through 1987 . major increases have occurred in the incidence of basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin , as well as in cutaneous malignant melanoma during the period 1973 through 1987 in british columbia . the greatest increases in basal and squamous cell carcinomas are on the head and neck . this indicates that exposure to sunlight is the major causative factor . the greatest increase in melanoma is on the trunk in men and on the lower limbs in women . the dramatic increases in nonmelanoma skin cancers in british columbia , a relatively low sunlight area , suggest that major prevention programs are needed in areas that are not considered " sunspots . " . 
pigmented bowen 's disease arising from pigmented seborrheic keratoses . we report three cases of pigmented bowen 's disease that clinically and histologically had features of seborrheic keratoses . we speculate about the mechanism of pigmentation in these lesions and suggest that they arise from pigmented seborrheic keratoses . 
the relationship of pemphigus to neoplasia . a statistically increased incidence of malignancy has been observed in patients with pemphigus . a review of the literature reveals 42 cases of nonthymic malignancies and 18 cases of thymic malignancies . a significant predominance of men , with mean age at onset of 50 years , was observed . pemphigus vulgaris is more common in patients with nonthymic neoplasms , whereas pemphigus foliaceus or pemphigus erythematosus and pemphigus vulgaris are equally common in patients with thymic neoplasms . lymphoreticular malignancies , especially kaposi 's sarcoma , are most frequently observed . the majority of patients with nonthymic neoplasms have pemphigus before the detection of the malignancy and have a favorable 5-year survival rate after tumor resection . the majority of the patients with thymic neoplasms have a thymoma before the development of pemphigus . in some patients pemphigus develops after thymectomy and myasthenia gravis is often associated . overall , 37 of the 60 patients , or 61 % , had a neoplasm of the immune system . 
proliferative mass found in the gingiva . the clinical course of peripheral ossifying fibroma is slow and the growth of most lesions is limited in size , usually up to 1.5 cm . complaints are rare unless the surface becomes ulcerated , or the lesion compromises oral function or esthetic appearance . treatment is surgical excision with close postoperative follow-up . tooth extraction is seldom necessary . proper surgical intervention , which includes excision of reactive tissue down to periosteum , affords a low recurrence rate of 14 % to 16 % . 
effect of gastric mucus on the uptake of the carcinogen mnng by gastric mucosal dna . in prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) - , pirenzepine - , and indomethacin-administered rats , the incorporation of n - [ methyl-3h ] - n ' - nitro-n-nitrosoguanidine ( [ methyl-3h ] mnng ) into gastric mucosal dna was measured quantitatively by liquid scintillation counting after intragastric instillation of [ methyl-3h ] mnng . the amount of incorporation was 25.4 + / - 5.9 pmol/mg dna in control rats , 11.7 + / - 3.8 pmol/mg dna in pge2-administered rats , 6.2 + / - 5.6 pmol/mg dna in pirenzepine-administered rats , and 42.9 + / - 14.4 pmol/mg dna in indomethacin-administered rats . pge2 and pirenzepine significantly decreased the incorporation as compared with the control group . in contrast , indomethacin increased the incorporation . in addition , gastric mucosa of these drug-treated rats was studied histochemically . pge2 and pirenzepine increased secretion of gastric mucus whereas indomethacin decreased it . it is possible that gastric mucus has a protective effect not only against ulcerogenic agents but also against carcinogens . it is considered that gastric mucus plays an important role in the defense mechanism against carcinogenesis . 
campylobacter pylori interactions with gastric cell tissue culture . many investigators have reported that gastric mucosal biopsies of patients with chronic gastritis and peptic ulcer disease show the presence of campylobacter pylori in a large majority of cases . histologic examinations of such tissues indicate a close approximation of c. pylori with gastric surface epithelial cells . a recent report has described both adherence and cell invasion of gastric cells by c. pylori . using a transmission electron microscope , we have examined the interaction between c. pylori , c. jejuni , and e. coli in vitro with a gastric cancer cell line , kato iii . our results indicate marked toxicity of e. coli and moderate toxicity of c. jejuni for kato iii cells . c. pylori had only a minor effect on tissue culture viability . c. pylori was found to have a strong association with the kato iii cell membranes and evidence of occasional cell invasion . both c. jejuni and e. coli showed no attachment or association with the kato iii cells . we interpret these findings as indicating that c. pylori may have a specific adhesion for gastric cells . 
pelvic pain : lessons from anatomy and physiology . pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department . for physiologic reasons , pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ , and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize . on the other hand , differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis . the clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain , and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation , ischemia , or colic . a review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain . 
hypointense renal cell carcinoma : mr imaging with pathologic correlation . in two pathologically documented cases of renal cell carcinoma , the appearance of the tumors at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was markedly hypointense relative to normal renal parenchyma on both t1 - and t2-weighted spin-echo images . pathologic examination of both tumors revealed diffuse iron scattered throughout the tumors . the paramagnetic effect of the iron may account for this unusual hypointense appearance at spin-echo imaging , independent of pulse sequence . 
rectal carcinoma : ct staging with water as contrast medium . computed tomography ( ct ) was used to study 42 patients with rectal carcinoma . water was used as a contrast medium for studying the local extent of tumor in all patients . scans were read prospectively without knowledge of the histologic staging and then compared with pathologic specimens . ct depicted the tumor in all patients . comparison of ct and histologic results ( following the dukes classification ) showed that disease was correctly staged as a in three of four patients , as b in eight of 12 , as c in 15 of 17 , and as d in nine of nine . overall , carcinoma was correctly staged with ct in 35 of 42 patients ( diagnostic accuracy , 83.3 % ) . the accuracy in the assessment of local invasion was 97.6 % ( 41 of 42 ) . in the detection of lymph node involvement , the accuracy was 78.6 % ( sensitivity , 88 % ; specificity , 64.7 % ) . ct is recommended in the preoperative staging of rectal carcinoma and as an aid in choosing the appropriate therapy . the use of water enema and complete distention of the rectum are reliable techniques for improving the accuracy of ct in the assessment of local invasion by cancer . 
segmented turboflash : method for breath-hold mr imaging of the liver with flexible contrast . a method called segmented turboflash imaging allows high-resolution , multisection , short-inversion-time ( ti ) inversion-recovery ( stir ) , t1 - or t2-weighted magnetic resonance ( mr ) studies of the liver to be completed within a breath-hold interval . the method was applied in a phantom and in 19 patients with hepatic lesions . sequence comparisons were performed among segmented turboflash , single-shot turboflash , t1-weighted gradient-echo with ultrashort echo time , and t2-weighted spin-echo ( se ) techniques . signal from fat and liver could be nulled with the segmented turboflash method , with tis of 10 and 300 msec , respectively ; signal from these tissues could not be eliminated with the single-shot approach . signal-difference-to-noise ratios and contrast for the best segmented sequences were comparable with those of the best t2-weighted se and t1-weighted gradient-echo techniques . it is concluded that it is feasible to obtain breath-hold images with arbitrary tissue contrast by means of segmented turboflash imaging . the method may prove helpful for the detection and characterization of hepatic lesions and will likely have applications to other anatomic regions such as the chest and pelvis . 
effect of somatostatin analogue ( octreotide ) on blood flow to endocrine tumors metastatic to the liver : angiographic evaluation . the effect of an octapeptide analogue of somatostatin , octreotide , on tumor blood flow was evaluated with angiography in eight patients with hepatic endocrine tumors ; one patient had primary intrahepatic gastrinoma , two patients had hepatic metastases from gastrinomas , two patients had vipomas ( vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-secreting tumor ) , and three patients had carcinoid tumors . octreotide caused a marked decrease in tumor blood flow in two patients with gastrinomas and two with vipomas . one patient could not be evaluated due to the lack of a tumor blush on a control angiogram . in patients with carcinoid tumors , octreotide caused a slight reduction in blood flow through the tumors in two patients , while there was no change in one patient . octreotide markedly decreased gastrin and gastric acid secretion in two of three patients with gastrinomas , lowered vip and stopped the diarrhea in patients with vipomas , and controlled symptoms in two of three patients with carcinoid tumors . the vasoactive effect of octreotide on hepatic endocrine tumors may be a direct action on tumor blood supply or secondary to inhibition of the endocrine tumor cell secretion and consequent decreased blood flow . 
direct interaction of a ligand for the erbb2 oncogene product with the egf receptor and p185erbb2 . the erbb2 oncogene encodes a 185-kilodalton transmembrane protein whose sequence is similar to the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) . a 30-kilodalton factor ( gp30 ) secreted from mda-mb-231 human breast cancer cells was shown to be a ligand for p185erbb2 . an antibody to egfr abolished the tyrosine phosphorylation induced by egf and transforming growth factor-alpha ( tgf-alpha ) but only partially blocked that produced by gp30 in sk-br-3 breast cancer cells . in two cell lines that overexpress erbb2 but do not expresss egfr ( mda-mb-453 breast cancer cells and a chinese hamster ovary cell line that had been transfected with erbb2 ) , phosphorylation of p185erbb2 was induced only by gp30 . the gp30 specifically inhibited the growth of cells that overexpressed p185erbb2 . an antibody to egfr had no effect on the inhibition of sk-br-3 cell colony formation obtained with gp30 . thus , it appeared that gp30 interacted directly with the egfr and erbb2 . direct binding of gp30 to p185erbb2 was confirmed by binding competition experiments , where gp30 was found to displace the p185erbb2 binding of a specific antibody to p185erbb2 . the evidence described here suggests that gp30 is a ligand for p185erbb2 . 
protection from chemotherapy-induced alopecia in a rat model . alopecia ( hair loss ) is among the most distressing side effects of cancer chemotherapy . little progress has been made , however , in its prevention or treatment , partly because of the lack of suitable experimental model . in recent work on the treatment of myelogenous leukemia in the rat , the following observations were made : ( i ) treatment of 8-day-old rats with cytosine arabinoside consistently produced alopecia , and ( ii ) imuvert , a biologic response modifier derived from the bacterium serratia marcescens , uniformly produced complete protection against the alopecia . in subsequent experiments , both cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin also produced alopecia in this model , and the doxorubicin-induced alopecia was prevented by treatment with imuvert . the potential relevance of these observations to chemotherapy-induced alopecia in the clinical setting should be examined . 
molecular analysis of acute promyelocytic leukemia breakpoint cluster region on chromosome 17 . acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ; fab m3 ) is characterized by a predominance of malignant promyelocytes that carry a reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 15 and 17 , t ( 15 ; 17 ) ( q22 ; q11.2-q12 ) . this translocation has become diagnostic for apl , as it is present in almost 100 percent of cases . a not i linking clone was used to detect this translocation initially on pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and subsequently with conventional southern ( dna ) analysis . the breakpoints in ten apl cases examined were shown to cluster in a 12-kb region of chromosome 17 , containing two cpg-rich islands . the region is the first intron of the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene ( rara ) . 
anxiety levels and cancer fear in patients admitted for elective operations . patients who are to have elective operations project varying degrees of anxiety , and many spontaneously express fear ( without basis ) that their operation involves a diagnosis of malignancy . to measure total , covert , and overt anxiety objectively , we gave the institute for personality and ability testing anxiety test to 125 consecutive patients admitted for elective general surgical procedures . a simple survey of cancer fear was also completed . chi-square and fisher 's exact test were used to compare categoric data , and linear regression and analysis of variance were used where appropriate . total anxiety scores were in the upper quartile compared to the general population . scores indicating fear of cancer were elevated in 75 % of patients who had no history of or reason to suspect malignancy . covert anxiety scores correlated with cancer fear scores , and both significantly decreased as age increased ( p less than .05 ) . also , as age increased , the cancer fear scores decreased ( p less than .002 ) . obese patients had higher scores of cancer fear than all other patients ( p less than .0001 ) . 
acute promyelocytic leukemia : impact of hemorrhagic complications on response to induction chemotherapy and survival . from 1976 to 1989 , 21 adult patients with previously untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia were seen at the university of virginia hospital . we reviewed their cases retrospectively to determine the impact of hemorrhagic complications and other factors on treatment outcome . we observed a complete remission rate of 35 % ; the median survival in complete responders was 15 months . evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation was found in 13 ( 62 % ) of the 21 cases at diagnosis . fatal intracranial hemorrhage was the leading cause of death , occurring in eight ( 40 % ) of the 20 patients evaluated . initial leukocyte count greater than 4.0 x 10 ( 9 ) / l and platelet count less than 20 x 10 ( 9 ) / l were significantly associated with an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage . in patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation , the rate of intracranial hemorrhage was reduced by treatment with heparin . the high mortality of 40 % ( 8/20 ) due to intracranial hemorrhage during induction was a major contributor to the low complete remission rate of 35 % ( 7/20 ) in this series of consecutive unselected patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia . 
carcinoma of the male breast : a review of 41 cases . we reviewed the cases of 41 consecutive men treated for breast carcinoma from 1950 through 1987 at vanderbilt university affiliated hospitals to examine controversies in and methods of therapy for this disease . twenty-two patients ( 52 % ) had stage i or ii lesions potentially curable by operative therapy . the overall 5-year survival rates were 100 % for stage i , 65 % for stage ii , 56 % for stage iii , and 0 % for stage iv . radical mastectomy offered no advantage over modified radical mastectomy in terms of survival or rate of recurrence . diagnosis at an early clinical stage and no finding of disease in axillary lymph nodes were important factors in survival in this series of patients . all tumors evaluated for hormone receptors were positive . although experience was limited , encouraging results were obtained with the use of tamoxifen citrate in adjuvant as well as palliative roles . with the exception of a predominance of centrally located lesions and a uniquely high frequency of positive hormone receptor status , carcinoma of the male breast appears biologically similar to the disease in women , and treatment should be guided by similar principles . 
malignant melanoma and pigmented lesions : a diagnostic and management dilemma . we document two cases of malignancy occurring at the site of partially removed benign nevi . because of the difficulty in clinical diagnosis and the uncertainty in its behavior , we propose that any recurring melanocytic nevus expanding beyond the original surgical scar be re-excised and the specimen carefully analyzed to ensure complete removal . 
results of conservative surgery and radiation therapy for breast cancer . for stage i or ii breast cancer , conservative surgery and radiation therapy are as effective as modified radical or radical mastectomy . in most cases , cosmetic considerations and the availability of therapy are the primary concerns . the extent of a surgical resection less than a mastectomy has not been a subject of a randomized trial and is controversial . it appears that removal of a quadrant of the breast for small lesions is safe but excessive . using histologic findings in the biopsy as a guide , it may be possible to limit the breast resection to gross tumor removal for most patients while using wider resections for patients with an extensive intraductal component or for invasive lobular carcinoma . it also appears that excluding patients from breast conservation on the basis of positive margins on the first attempt at tumor excision may be unnecessarily restrictive . although patients with an extensive intraductal component or invasive lobular carcinoma should have negative margins , it appears that a patient with predominantly invasive ductal carcinoma can be treated without re-excision if all gross tumor has been resected and there is no reason to suspect extensive microscopic disease . patients with indeterminate margins should have a re-excision . axillary dissection provides prognostic information and prevents progression of the disease within the axilla . axillary dissections limited to level i will accurately identify a substantial number of patients who have pathologically positive but clinically negative nodes . when combined with radiation therapy to the axilla , a level i dissection results in a limited number of patients with progressive axillary disease . patients with pathologically positive axillas and patients at particularly high risk for systemic disease because of the extent of axillary node involvement can be identified by dissections of levels i and ii . radiation therapy can be avoided safely in patients who have pathologically negative axillas by level i and ii dissection . there appears to be no advantage to routine dissection of level iii lymph nodes . lymphedema of the arm and breast increases with more extensive dissections and with radiation therapy . 
role of mastectomy in breast cancer . the surgical management of breast cancer continues to evolve in an attempt to define the ideal line between therapeutic efficacy and morbidity . it is clear that breast cancer is a biologically heterogeneous group of diseases , and no single hypothesis explains its behavior . the surgical options proposed to the individual patient must draw from the experience of retrospective clinical studies and prospective randomized trials in an attempt to optimize the treatment plan . most patients without distant disease are eligible to consider mastectomy , which can accomplish excellent local control and significantly improve survival for earlier stages of disease . however , breast conservation remains an appropriate alternative for a carefully defined subset of patients . today , with early-stage disease , no patient need leave the operating room without a breast . recent advances in reconstructive surgery make mastectomy with immediate reconstruction or limited resection plus axillary dissection with postoperative radiation therapy the two principal treatment choices available . future studies will focus on the integration of other treatment modalities . clinical research into the use of preoperative chemotherapy to downstage the disease to permit less extensive surgery is of interest . recent application of molecular biologic techniques such as oncogene analysis , cytogenetic studies , proliferative indices , and the highly sensitive detection of distant micrometastases using monoclonal antibodies may assist in the design of innovative approaches to surgery , radiation therapy , and systemic drug treatment . these advances show great promise for improving the quality of life and the cure rate for patients with breast cancer . today , surgical treatment options have evolved that fulfill some of the objectives outlined by dr. james ewing of memorial hospital some 50 years ago . his concerns about breast cancer remain as relevant today as they were half a century ago : " i have drawn the impression that in dealing with mammary cancer , surgery meets with more peculiar difficulties and uncertainties than with almost any other form of the disease . the anatomical types are so numerous , the variations in clinical course so wide , the paths of dissemination so free and diverse , the difficulties of determining the actual conditions so complex , and the sacrifice of tissues so great , as to render impossible in the majority of cases a reasonably accurate adjustment of a means to an end . " . 
selection of breast-preservation therapy for primary invasive breast carcinoma . breast-preservation treatment for primary breast cancer should not be used for all women . women frequently excluded from consideration for such treatment or who choose not to have it may be elderly and not concerned about cosmetic appearance or live at a distance so that 6 weeks of daily trips to radiotherapy would be inconvenient or even impossible . also , if radiotherapeutic expertise or facilities are not available , a breast-preservation program is difficult . in massachusetts , a full course of just over 6000 cgy ( 4500 cgy to the whole breast and a 1600-cgy local boost ) costs roughly $ 6000 . thus , breast preservation is more expensive than mastectomy even with reconstruction , as patients still frequently require a hospital admission with general anesthesia for an axillary dissection . although insurance policies cover such expenses , patients who do not have insurance or have inadequate coverage may find the extra expense of the breast-preservation technique burdensome or impossible . women with a small breast and a proportionately large cancer may have an unsatisfactory cosmetic outcome after appropriate lumpectomy . the cosmetic result in such patients frequently can not be predicted beforehand ; this fact adds emphasis to the need for a two-step process of lumpectomy and then re-evaluation of the cosmetic outcome as well as pathologic features for decisions regarding breast preservation . finally , women may have strikingly different attitudes toward breast preservation than expected by the surgeon . for some women , the urge to preserve the breast is so strong that they will accept virtually any risk to achieve this option , whereas for other women , the constant anxiety about a recurrence or undergoing radiation therapy is traumatic enough that they readily accept mastectomy . in our referral surgical oncology practice , roughly 60 % of patients are currently treated with breast-preservation techniques ; the remainder undergo mastectomy , with immediate reconstruction in approximately three fourths of the cases . the proportion of patients who elect to have breast preservation depends greatly on local medical customs and attitudes ; the radiotherapeutic skills available ; women 's attitudes , which frequently are dependent on the local press and publicity ; and the surgeon 's interest and enthusiasm for such a program . there is no appropriate proportion of patients who should be treated by breast-preservation techniques , but clearly , the proportion of patients so treated increases with experience , acceptability , publicity , and availability . thus , the selection of breast-preserving therapy for individual patients is a result of an extraordinary array of factors that need to be considered in each patient . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
selection of therapy for stage iii breast cancer . locally advanced breast cancer is a heterogenous group including both operable and inoperable lesions . local surgery or radiation alone produces poor survival rates , indicating micrometastases at diagnosis . systemic chemotherapy as part of multimodality regimens has increased the length and rate of disease-free survival . 
adjuvant chemotherapy of breast cancer . many women will not be cured of breast cancer by even the best early detection and surgical techniques because of micrometastases present at diagnosis . adjuvant therapy has extended the disease-free interval for most patients and lengthens overall survival for many . combination chemotherapy has become the standard form of adjuvant treatment for premenopausal women with breast cancer and positive lymph nodes after primary therapy . with minimal toxicity , disease-free and overall survival are improved . results are less impressive or less clear-cut for postmenopausal women or any woman with negative lymph nodes . long-term toxicities of adjuvant chemotherapy may include second malignancies and cardiac dysfunction . although these complications probably are rare , they must be considered seriously when weighing chemotherapy for patients in whom its benefits may be slight . innovations likely to become standard in adjuvant therapy decision making include risk assessment with new prognostic indicators ( growth fraction , oncogene expression ) and investigation of dose intensification using bone marrow growth factors and autologous stem-cell support . 
adjuvant antiestrogen therapy for breast cancer . past , present , and future . laboratory investigations using animal models of breast cancer growth have indicated that the antiestrogenic compound tamoxifen is a tumoristatic agent . it is therefore effective in suppressing , rather than destroying , the breast tumor . its use as an adjuvant in breast cancer management has been successful , with a proportion of women benefiting from long periods of tamoxifen treatment . all the initial studies recruited postmenopausal women , but tamoxifen is now proposed for the treatment of premenopausal women for an extended time . naturally , there are many aspects of the toxicology of tamoxifen to consider ; however , careful monitoring of clinical trials will determine the safety of the drug for the general patient population . 
management of local and regional recurrence after mastectomy or breast-conserving treatment . locoregional failures after primary treatment for breast cancer include a diverse group of lesions that represent different categories of failures with various prognoses . although patients with chest wall recurrences and regional nodal failures after traditional radical surgery have a poor prognosis , many patients can still achieve a significant degree of palliation and even long-term survival or cure with carefully orchestrated multimodal treatment . in patients who have breast failures after breast-conservation surgery and radiation , long-term salvage and cure can be achieved for the majority with prompt detection and appropriate treatment , which , like treatment for primary breast cancer , includes a consideration not only of local control but also of the risk of subsequent systemic failure and its need for treatment . 
reconstruction after mastectomy . advances in materials and techniques , especially those involving transposition of muscle and skin flaps , have made breast reconstruction possible for most women who undergo mastectomy for breast cancer . the availability of this option can alleviate the breast and chest wall deformity that results from virtually all local treatment of breast cancer . it is essential that the reconstruction surgeon be part of the breast cancer management team from the beginning of treatment planning and that this surgeon work closely with the general surgeon , medical oncologist , and radiation therapist as well as the adjunctive treatment team members . the patient 's clinical status and the type of local treatment will be significant determinants of the reconstructive options . for women with stage i breast cancer , these decisions may be based largely on the oncologist 's local and adjunctive therapy procedures and the woman 's desire to proceed or delay . for women with systemic disease , all members of the breast management team may need to agree on the advisability and timing of reconstruction . central to all of the numerous decisions described in this paper regarding the timing , type , and extent of breast reconstruction is the primary goal of the entire team : the best possible management of the breast cancer itself . the promise of attractive , symmetric , and natural appearing breasts , complete with a symmetric nipple-areolar complex , has eased somewhat the diminishment of self-esteem and the threat to femininity that can accompany the loss of a breast . by lowering fear , the widely recognized availability of breast reconstruction may encourage more women to monitor their breasts and seek diagnosis of changes and may influence selection of the type of local treatment if cancer is detected . because of the psychological and cultural significance of the breast , the reconstructive surgeon must be particularly sensitive to the psychological and aesthetic expectations of the patient . even in those patients with metastases and limited life expectancy , breast reconstruction can enhance the quality of life . 
bilateral breast cancer . a second primary breast cancer in the opposite breast can be either synchronous or metachronous . the majority are metachronous . a woman who has had breast cancer has a fivefold increase in risk for a second breast cancer . additional risk factors include multifocal cancer , lobular carcinoma in situ , and an original cancer at an early age with long survival . lobular carcinoma in situ is predominantly a marker for the subsequent development of a second primary breast cancer . the incidence of synchronous bilateral cancer is approximately 1 % to 2 % and that of metachronous cancer 5 % to 6 % . the cancer can be invasive or noninvasive . mammography has increased the number of synchronous cancers found but not the overall incidence . the incidence of invasive cancer detected by random biopsy of the opposite breast is not high enough to justify routine adoption of this procedure . the remaining breast must be followed for the remainder of the patient 's life by physical examination and annual mammography . the treatment of the secondary primary breast cancer should be that appropriate for the stage of the disease . the prognosis for the woman with a second primary breast cancer is quite favorable and is dependent on the stage of both the first and the second cancer . 
breast cancer during pregnancy and lactation . breast cancer is the most frequently seen cancer in pregnancy and lactation , but the incidence is low , the disease being seen in approximately 0.03 % of pregnancies . only 1 % to 2 % of breast cancer overall is diagnosed during pregnancy or lactation . there is no evidence to implicate pregnancy or lactation in either the etiology or the progression of breast cancer . careful breast examination early in the pregnancy is very important to find solid masses that require biopsy before breast engorgement hides them . therapeutic options vary , depending on the stage of disease and the stage of the pregnancy . operable disease in the first 6 to 7 months of the pregnancy should be treated by mastectomy , as irradiation is contraindicated . late in the pregnancy , a lumpectomy and axillary dissection can be done , with irradiation being delayed until after delivery . general anesthesia is safe if the usual precautions are taken to compensate for the physiologic changes induced by pregnancy . unfortunately , delay in diagnosis is common , and 70 % to 89 % of patients with operable primary lesions have positive axillary lymph nodes . late stage appears to be the only reason for the generally worse prognosis in these patients , as stage for stage , they have a course similar to that of nonpregnant patients . adjuvant chemotherapy can be considered late in the pregnancy but should usually be delayed until after delivery . in patients with locally advanced or metastatic cancer diagnosed early in the pregnancy , for whom both chemotherapy and radiation therapy would normally be recommended , consideration must be given to termination of the pregnancy . there is no evidence that termination of pregnancy improves the outlook for the patients , but it does permit standard aggressive therapy in advanced disease . 
male breast cancer . male breast cancer is uncommon but important . the diagnosis is easily made by breast biopsy , and patients are presenting earlier in the course of the disease than in the past . despite this , patients are often first seen with tumors that have metastasized to the axillary nodes , which markedly decreases the survival rate . therapy of localized disease includes simple excision , modified radical mastectomy , and radical mastectomy , but there is no consensus for which operation is appropriate . radiation therapy should be strongly considered in patients with metastases to the axillary nodes , but the role of adjuvant hormonal therapy or chemotherapy is unclear . for treatment of disseminated disease , tamoxifen seems to be replacing orchiectomy . the favorable response rate , especially in patients with estrogen-receptor-positive tumors , the lack of side effects , and the high level of patient acceptability make it an attractive therapeutic choice . 
clinical problems in follow-up of patients after conservative surgery and radiotherapy . patients treated with conservative surgery and radiotherapy for early-stage breast carcinoma are at risk of developing an ipsilateral breast recurrence for a long period . fortunately , few such patients present with an inoperable recurrence or simultaneous distant metastases . salvage rates are high and may be improved by early detection . although usually unambiguous , physical examination of the treated breast may reveal changes attributable to surgery and radiotherapy that can mimic a recurrent cancer . there also is substantial overlap in radiologic appearance between benign and malignant lesions . it may be necessary to perform a biopsy when there is a question of recurrence . careful life-long follow-up of patients thus is a critical part of their care . 
trends in primary breast cancer management . where are we going ? the treatment of cancer during any period has been based not on the whim of a clinician but on the therapeutic consequences of the dominant biologic model of the disease . until the 1960s , the dominant model of breast cancer was of a disease that spread centrifugally along anatomic pathways , with time being the only determinant of prognosis . an alternative model , that of biologic determinism , posits that the outcomes of treatment are determined by the extent of microscopic dissemination that occurred before the tumor became detectable . this model , too , has flaws , and the author suggests that it is time for a kuhnian paradigm shift . breast cancer exhibits a heterogeneity of phenotypes resulting from one or perhaps two mutations . the multiple prognostic variables may be epiphenomena , expressing different degrees of amplification of a limited domain of the genome . 
prognostic indicators in invasive breast cancer . tumor size and axillary lymph node involvement are the primary determinants of clinical course for most patients . receptors for estrogen and progesterone are important additional prognostic factors for disease-free survival , overall survival , survival time after initial disease recurrence , and the likelihood of response to hormonal therapy . histologic grading has merit as a prognostic factor , although poor reproducibility limits its broad application . promising data have been emerging from the use of flow cytometry to analyze dna content and proliferative rate . patients with aneuploid tumors are more likely to have a shorter survival time than patients with diploid tumors . a high s-phase fraction also identifies a subset of patients at increased risk for early relapse . a combined index of ploidy and s-phase may be a more useful guide ; together , diploidy and low s-phase identify a subgroup of node-negative patients at very low risk for disease recurrence . a number of oncogenes have been identified in breast cancer ; amplification of the her-2 / neu gene or overexpression of the gene product may be an important prognostic indicator for node-positive patients . 
broad spectrum penicillin as an adequate therapy for acute cholangitis . in a previous study of patients with acute cholecystitis , we demonstrated equal efficacy with a broad spectrum penicillin ( piperacillin ) and a penicillin plus amino-glycoside combination . whether a single agent broad spectrum penicillin is adequate treatment for more severe infections , such as acute cholangitis , however , is still unclear . we , therefore , conducted a three center , prospective , randomized trial to determine whether or not a broad spectrum penicillin alone is adequate therapy for patients with acute cholangitis . during a 36 month period , 96 patients with sepsis and biliary obstruction were randomly assigned to receive either piperacillin ( n = 49 ) or ampicillin plus tobramycin ( n = 47 ) . the two groups receiving antibiotics were similar with respect to all clinical and laboratory parameters . the incidence of blood cultures with positive results ( 20 versus 21 per cent ) and underlying malignant lesions ( 51 versus 62 per cent ) was also similar between the two groups . the percentage of patients with a clinical cure or significant improvement was the same in the two groups ( 69 versus 70 per cent ) . however , there was a significant difference in the cure rate between patients with benign and malignant biliary obstructions ( 83 versus 59 per cent , p less than 0.01 ) . no significant differences were noted between the two antibiotic groups with respect to drug toxicity , but patients with malignant conditions were more prone to antibiotic related toxicities ( 2 versus 19 per cent , p less than 0.05 ) . these data suggest that outcome of treatment in patients with acute cholangitis is similar with either a broad spectrum penicillin or a penicillin plus aminoglycoside combination and is dependent upon the nature of the biliary obstruction . 
synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum . reports on the incidence of synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum have varied from 2 to 11 per cent . the variability is a result of a lack of uniformity in criteria of diagnosis , differences in the population studied and differences in time period used . in this study , we evaluated the incidence and distribution of synchronous lesions during a recent time period before the use of colonoscopy became widespread . we reviewed the records of all patients with newly diagnosed adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum who were operated upon at our institution between 1976 and 1981 . in a total group of 1,000 patients of which 52 per cent were men , there were 54 patients or 5.4 per cent who had synchronous carcinomas . the group of patients with synchronous carcinomas were older than the group with nonsynchronous carcinomas ( 72.4 versus 68.8 years ) . there was also a higher incidence of associated benign polyps in the group with synchronous carcinomas ( 70 versus 30 per cent for a nonsynchronous carcinomas ) . the anatomic distribution of carcinomas of the colon and rectum in the group with synchronous lesions ( 111 in total ) revealed a higher percentage of carcinomas located on the right side ( 29.7 versus 22.5 per cent ) , although the difference did not reach statistical significance . synchronous carcinomas were located in nonadjacent segments of the colon in 37 per cent . there was no difference in stage between the groups with and without synchronous carcinomas . the preoperative identification of synchronous lesions by either colonoscopy or barium enema is important for the proper treatment of patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum . failure to locate these tumors may lead to the demise of the patient . 
congenital dilatation of the bile duct in 100 instances and its relationship with anomalous junction [ published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 mar ; 172 ( 3 ) :246 ] congenital dilatation of the bile duct ( cdbd ) or choledochal cyst has been demonstrated to be associated with an anomalous junction of the pancreaticobiliary ductal system . multifarious clinical signs and symptoms of cdbd have been shown to be closely related with the presence of this anomalous junction . in the present study , 100 instances of cdbd treated surgically at our institutions during a 30 year period were classified into two types according to the morphologic features of dilatation of the bile duct ; there were 77 instances of the cystic type and 23 of the cylindric type . morphologic features of the lesion , clinical signs and symptoms and laboratory findings in these 100 instances were clinically analyzed . in almost all of the patients who were less than one year of age , the disease was of the cystic type and patients presented with either a palpable mass or jaundice as the main symptom . in patients more than one year of age , the disease was of either the cystic or cylindric type . a history of episodes of characteristic abdominal pain accompanied by elevated levels of serum amylase was present in 70 of the patients with the cystic type of disease and in all of the patients with the cylindric type . histologic sections from the patients showed glandular formation with chronic inflammation , possibly a result of refluxed activated pancreatic juice ; in contrast , histologic sections from the remaining patients of all ages showed only thickening of the fibrous layer . thus , such variable morphologic features and clinical signs and symptoms in cdbd are highly dependent on two factors -- the age at onset and the reflux of pancreatic juice into the bile duct through the common channel . 
carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct . a review of 39 instances of excision of a cyst of the thyroglossal duct performed at st. paul medical center , dallas , texas , revealed two patients with carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct . a review of the english literature yielded 146 instances of this uncommon tumor . eighty-four per cent were papillary adenocarcinoma of thyroid type and 5 per cent were squamous cell carcinoma . the patients were from six to 81 years old with a 2:1 female to male ratio . metastatic disease to lymph nodes was noted in 11 per cent and invasion of overlying strap muscles was found in 4 per cent . carcinoma of the thyroid gland occurred in 14 per cent . preoperative diagnosis was rare . the sistrunk procedure is recommended for initial surgical therapy with further surgical or adjuvant therapy dependent on associated clinical findings . prognosis for carcinoma of the thyroglossal duct of thyroid type parallels that of carcinoma of the thyroid gland . 
surgical management of islet cell dysmaturation syndrome in young children . islet cell dysmaturation syndrome ( icds ) encompasses the causes of infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia histologically described as islet cell hyperplasia , pancreatic adenomatosis and nesidioblastosis . eleven infants underwent 14 pancreatic resections for icds from 1965 to 1990 at the university of california at los angeles medical center for severe hypoglycemia unresponsive to medical therapy . seizures were the presenting symptoms of hypoglycemia in eight infants . six patients had nesidioblastosis , four had islet cell hyperplasia and one patient had an adenoma with histologically normal pancreatic islet cells . four neonates underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection ; three with nesidioblastosis required reoperation ( 90 to 95 per cent resection ) . four older infants underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection but required diazoxide for less than six months postoperatively . three infants underwent 90 to 95 per cent pancreatic resection . none have required reoperation or postoperative medications . all infants are normoglycemic without pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and none had postoperative complications . five infants had preoperative neurologic impairment , with three having severe retardation ; all showed some improvement postoperatively , but only one infant now has normal findings on neurologic examination . early diagnosis and aggressive surgical resection should minimize neurologic complications of the icds . 
nonendoscopic percutaneous gastrostomy . tight peritoneal adherence of the stomach to the abdominal wall as a prerequisite of percutaneous gastrostomy can be achieved by a newly developed cannula . it serves for puncture and fixation of the gastric wall . thus , percutaneous gastrostomy can be established safely even in instances of an endoscopically nonaccessible stomach . further applications of the device for the purpose of intestinopexy and facilitation of endoscopic procedures are being evaluated . 
management of the pregnant patient with carcinoma of the breast . the diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast during pregnancy poses a challenging dilemma . although once regarded as incurable , recent reports reveal similar long term survival rates for pregnant and nonpregnant patients who have carcinoma of the breast . when referred to a surgeon , a pregnant woman with a suspicious mammary mass deserves an expedient histologic diagnosis ; delay may jeopardize the chances of survival . once the diagnosis is established , pregnant patients should be treated in a manner similar to nonpregnant patients because there is no evidence that carcinoma of the breast in pregnant women is biologically different than carcinoma of the breast in other premenopausal women . fears of fetal exposure to radiation should not deter a physician from ordering appropriate preoperative diagnostic tests to stage the patients . operation may be performed safely when general anesthesia is administered and postoperative adjuvant therapy should be administered when necessary . the involvement of multiple subspecialties in the management of these patients is highly recommended . 
an unusual epidural , vascular spinal lipoma in a 3-year-old child : a case report and review of the literature . epidural lipomas are usually benign tumors affecting the spinal cord . we report the unusual presentation of a cervicothoracic spinal lipoma associated with a cervical dysraphism in a young boy . diagnostic options using magnetic resonance imaging and gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid are discussed as a pathway to early diagnosis of these and other occult spinal lesions . 
neonatal intracranial teratomas . two neonates with intracranial teratomas presented with cranial enlargements a few weeks after birth . both cases underwent surgery : one died intraoperatively ; the other is the longest known survivor , alive 7 years and 9 months after subtotal excision of a mature teratoma of the left sylvian fissure . previous operations have been relatively few and nearly all have been unsuccessful . size and favorable location may be the most important prognostic features regardless of the histologic classification as mature or immature . one of our cases demonstrates that even subtotal excision of a mature teratoma can result in long-term survival . 
spinal extradural cavernous hemangioma . three cases of isolated spinal extradural cavernous hemangiomas are reported , two in the thoracic and one in the lumbar region . one of them manifested as acute cord compression , the other two as chronic progressive myelopathy or radiculopathy . a total excision or subtotal excision with irradiation was performed . all of them had good functional recovery . the clinical picture , radiological diagnosis , and optimal method of treatment are discussed . the relevant literature is reviewed . 
prospective evaluation of clinical and pathologic detection of axillary metastases in patients with carcinoma of the breast . complete axillary dissection was performed in 287 patients undergoing modified radical mastectomy between 1984 and 1987 to identify patterns of axillary node metastases , as well as discontinuous axillary node ( " skip " ) metastases . positive pathologic findings were compared with preoperative clinical examinations in 266 patients and showed only 60 cases ( 22.6 % ) clinically suspicious for tumor , in contrast to 131 ( 45.6 % ) with pathologically confirmed positive lymph nodes . axillary contents were classified level i , ii , or iii based on their relationship to the pectoralis minor muscle . an average of 24.2 nodes was resected per patient ( level i , 10 ; level ii , 8.1 ; and level iii , 5.3 ) . tumors ranged in size from 0.5 to 12.0 cm ( mean , 2.6 cm ) , and increasing tumor size was associated with an increased likelihood of positive nodes . the data on 204 patients with complete clinical and pathologic data show that of 119 patients with negative level i nodes a limited axillary dissection ( level i only ) would fail to identify 6 with positive level ii and 2 with positive level iii nodes , whereas of 85 patients with positive level i nodes limited axillary dissection would fail to identify 17 with positive level ii nodes , 7 with positive level iii nodes , and 27 with positive levels ii and iii nodes . complete axillary dissection ( levels i , ii , and iii ) should be performed to stage patients accurately , as well as to remove tumor-involved nodes and diminish local axillary recurrences . clinical examination of the axilla appears to be a poor means of identifying axillary metastatic cancer . 
short-term tamoxifen plus chemotherapy : superior results in node-positive breast cancer . three hundred eleven patients with node-positive breast cancer were randomized to one of three adjuvant treatments : cyclophosphamide ( cytoxan ) , methotrexate , and 5-fluorouracil ; all of the above with tamoxifen citrate ; or all of the above with tamoxifen and bacillus calmette-guerin vaccination . local therapy for all patients was a modified radical mastectomy . estrogen receptors were measured on all primary tumors . patients were stratified by the number of positive nodes ( one to three nodes and more than three nodes ) and estrogen-receptor value ( less than 3 femtomole/mg and greater than or equal to 3 femtomole/mg ) . follow-up is available , with a mean of 9.1 and maximum of 14.2 years . in this study the efficacy of short-term tamoxifen is apparent over that of chemoimmunotherapy alone and continues to be significant with prolonged follow-up . the addition of tamoxifen to chemoimmunotherapy significantly prolonged disease-free survival among patients with estrogen receptor-positive tumors who were postmenopausal , who had larger tumors ( greater than 3 cm ) , or who had more extensive axillary node involvement ( more than three nodes ) . tamoxifen improved overall survival for patients with estrogen receptor-positive tumors larger than 3 cm . the addition of bacillus calmette-guerin cytoxan , methotrexate , 5-fluorouracil , and tamoxifen did not significantly alter disease-free or overall survival . 
the diagnosis and definition of hepatic malignancies by use of arterial enhanced computerized tomographic scanning . axial computerized tomography is a useful tool in the evaluation of either primary or metastatic hepatic neoplasms . an adjunct to this technique is visceral arterial enhanced computerized tomography ( aect ) . to determine the effectiveness of this modality , bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography scans and aect were compared and correlated to operative findings . fifty-four consecutive patients were evaluated by aect and bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography over a 30-month period ( may 1986 to august 1989 ) for suspected primary or metastatic hepatic malignancies . forty-four patients ( 81 % ) had hepatic lesions . fifty-two percent ( 23 of 44 patients ) of the metastatic tumors were from colonic or rectal primary lesions , and 20 % were hepatocellular primary lesions . the remainder of the lesions were metastases from a variety of primary lesions . when studies were compared , 34 % of the patients ( 15 of 44 patients ) differed in either the location or total number of lesions noted . the lesions of three of the 15 patients ( 20 % ) were determined unresectable on the basis of aect . of the remaining patients , planned resections were revised in seven patients to either lesser or greater procedures . the number of lesions found at laparotomy equaled the number found by aect in all but two cases . aect caused no complications . aect improved our ability to identify and localize primary and metastatic lesions of the liver . this technique offers the advantage of preoperative definition of the hepatic arterial and portal venous anatomy . 
is dna ploidy of prognostic significance in stage i cutaneous melanoma ? recent studies have suggested that the presence of dna aneuploidy in stage i cutaneous melanoma carries a poor prognosis . to see if our experience correlated with these reports , we used dna analysis by flow cytometry of propidium iodide-stained nuclei disaggregated from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue of biopsy specimens to retrospectively study 55 patients who had cutaneous stage i melanomas . the patients had been treated from 1977 to 1987 with a mean follow-up of 5.4 years . thirty-nine ( 71 % ) of the 55 histograms were diploid , and 16 ( 29 % ) of the histograms were aneuploid . dna content was significantly associated with other conventional prognostic factors , including growth pattern , ulceration , pathologic stage , tumor thickness , and clark 's level . dna aneuploidy was significantly related to disease-free survival and predicted a poorer prognosis ( p less than 0.05 ) , but when stratified for tumor thickness it lost significance . a multivariate discriminant function analysis of 12 factors in melanoma showed six factors to be independently significant in determining prognosis . dna content ( p = 0.034 ) ranked fifth in importance behind growth pattern ( p less than 0.001 ) , ulceration ( p less than 0.001 ) , thickness ( p = 0.001 ) , and pathologic stage ( p less than 0.005 ) . dna content , although significantly associated with conventional prognostic factors and disease-free survival , is not the best indicator of biologic behavior of melanomas in this study . further investigation into its usefulness is necessary before dna content can become a routine diagnostic modality in the work-up of stage i cutaneous melanomas . 
long-term results of surgical resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma . this study was undertaken to review the long-term results of multivisceral resection of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma . between 1964 and 1980 , 1042 patients underwent exploratory surgery for colorectal cancer . of these , 58 patients ( 5.5 % ) underwent curative multivisceral resection for suspected contiguous invasion by the primary tumor . follow-up was complete for all patients . the primary tumors were located in the rectum ( 38 patients ) , sigmoid ( 9 patients ) , left colon ( 6 patients ) , and right colon ( 5 patients ) . en bloc resection of other viscera included uterus , adnexa , bladder , vagina , small intestine , abdominal wall , liver , stomach , kidney , and ureter . the operative morbidity and mortality rates were 31 % and 1.7 % , respectively . resection margins were free of tumor in 54 patients . in the four patients with tumor-positive resection margins , recurrence of disease was evident between 8 and 22 weeks after surgery ( mean survival time , 8.2 months ) . carcinomatous invasion of the resected contiguous organ was confirmed in 49 patients ( 84 % ) . the mean survival time for patients without lymph node metastases was 100.7 months , but it was only 16.2 months ( p less than 0.01 ) for patients with lymph node metastases . actuarial 5-year disease-free survival rate for patients without lymph node metastases was 76 % ( 36 of 47 patients ) . none of the patients ( 0 of 11 ) with lymph node metastases survived for 5 years . three of 36 of the 5-year survivors experienced recurrence of disease before the seventh postoperative year ; no cancer-related deaths occurred between 7 and 25 years . these data suggest that survival in locally advanced colorectal carcinoma is more dependent on lymph node status than on the extent of local invasion . effective disease control associated with survival in the long term can be achieved by multivisceral resection . 
local recurrence after curative resection of colorectal adenocarcinoma . a total of 853 patients with 861 colorectal adenocarcinomas were operated on at our institution between 1965 and 1981 . complete follow-up information was obtained in all but six patients ( 99.4 % ) , and all available histologic slides were reviewed to determine pathologic stage and characteristics . six hundred fifty-one patients ( 76.3 % ) underwent a potentially curative procedure , and their operative mortality rate was 2.8 % . of the 627 patients available for analysis , 50 ( 8 % ) had a local recurrence . the median time to local recurrence was 18 months , and only 16 % of local recurrences were diagnosed 5 years after the original resection . median survival of patients with a local recurrence was 3 1/2 years from the original resection , and 16 patients ( 32 % ) survived 5 years or longer . a multivariate logistic regression analysis was conducted to examine the influence of several clinical and pathologic characteristics on local recurrence among dukes ' stages b and c adenocarcinomas ( n = 539 ) after exclusion of patients with synchronous tumors ( n = 8 ) , postoperative deaths ( n = 18 ) , loss to follow-up ( n = 6 ) , or incomplete data ( n = 11 ) . this analysis revealed that the local recurrence rate was significantly related to depth of invasion ( b1 + c1 = 0 % ; b2 + c1 = 10 % ; p less than 0.01 ) , site of origin ( right plus transverse colon = 6 % ; left plus rectosigmoid colon = 10 % ; rectum = 12 % ; p less than 0.05 ) , and lymphatic or capillary microinvasion ( absent , 6 % ; present , 14 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . this analysis attempts to identify patients at high risk for development of local recurrent disease to select candidates for postoperative adjuvant therapy . 
follicular cell predominance in the cytologic examination of dominant thyroid nodules indicates a sixty percent incidence of neoplasia . the interpretation of aspiration cytologic smears that contain a predominance of follicular components often presents a dilemma to the clinician who is treating a patient who has a dominant thyroid nodule , especially when thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression does not produce any significant involution of the dominant nodule . we reviewed a consecutive series of 555 fine-needle aspiration cytologic examinations of dominant thyroid nodules . all specimens that contained colloid or follicular cells mixed with lymphocytes or hurthle cells were excluded from this review . additionally , nine aspirates contained degenerated follicular cells with insufficient material for cytologic diagnosis . the remaining 76 specimens contained a predominance of follicular cells : 27 specimens were interpreted as containing " normal " follicular cells , and the remaining 49 specimens were read as " atypical " follicular cells . histopathologic examination of the resected specimens indicated a 60 % incidence of neoplasia ( 30 % carcinoma , 30 % adenoma ) in which the aspiration cytologic study was interpreted as " normal " follicular cells . on the other hand , a 63 % incidence of neoplasia ( 27 % carcinoma , 36 % adenoma ) occurred in which the cytologic study was read as " atypical . " in conclusion , aspirates showing a predominance of follicular cells , whether " normal " or " atypical " indicate a 60 % incidence of neoplasia in dominant thyroid nodules that do not decrease significantly in size with thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression . 
management of recurrent malignant pleural effusion in the united kingdom : survey of clinical practice . malignant pleural effusions are often symptomatic and tend to recur after simple aspiration . pleurodesis may prevent recurrence of the effusion ; many agents and techniques have been described . a questionnaire was sent to 448 clinicians in the united kingdom to determine how pleurodesis is performed in practice . there was a 56 % overall response , with replies from 101 respiratory physicians , 88 general physicians , 29 thoracic surgeons , and 35 general surgeons . general surgeons saw few cases of malignant pleural effusion and rarely performed pleurodesis . a patient with recurrent malignant pleural effusion would usually be managed with pleurodesis by 76 ( 76 % ) respiratory physicians , 26 ( 30 % ) general physicians , and 23 ( 81 % ) thoracic surgeons ; a further 29 ( 33 % ) general physicians would refer such patients to another specialist . most medical pleurodesis were performed by junior staff , whereas consultant thoracic surgeons were more likely to be concerned with the procedure . all the thoracic surgeons used an intercostal tube drain , usually with suction . an intercostal tube drain was used routinely by only 54 ( 54 % ) of the respiratory physicians and 28 ( 32 % ) general physicians . thoracic surgeons preferred talc for pleurodesis whereas physicians most commonly used tetracycline . the variety of methods in use supports the need for randomised , controlled studies to determine the most effective technique of pleurodesis . 
pulmonary disease following intravesical bcg treatment . bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) is an attenuated strain of mycobacterium bovis that has been used in the treatment of malignant disease for over 20 years and for the treatment of bladder cancer since 1976 . major complications of this treatment are infrequent . we report two cases of systemic illness with pulmonary manifestations after treatment with intravesical bcg . 
effective ultraviolet irradiation of platelet concentrates in teflon bags . several plastic materials used in blood storage were evaluated for their ability to transmit ultraviolet b ( uvb ) light . a plastic bag manufactured from sheets of transparent teflon efficiently ( 78-86 % ) transmitted uvb light and was employed in subsequent functional studies of lymphocytes and platelets exposed to uvb light while contained in these bags . in vitro experiments showed a uvb dose-dependent abrogation of lymphocyte responder and stimulator functions , with concurrent preservation of platelet aggregation responses . in a phase i pilot study , uvb-treated platelet concentrates were administered to four bone marrow transplant recipients . adverse effects attributable to the transfusions were not observed , and patients showed clinically effective transfusion responses . no patient developed lymphocytotoxic hla or platelet antibodies . these studies suggest that platelets can be effectively irradiated with uvb light in a closed system . however , numerous variables , including container material , volume and composition of contents , steady exposure versus agitation , and exact uv wavelength , must be considered . 
management of stage a prostate cancer . transrectal ultrasonography has defined a new category of stage a disease , namely nonpalpable lesions diagnosed by needle biopsy . how this type relates to classic stage a disease is unclear . stage a1 carcinoma becomes clinically significant only in a distinct minority of patients , and even in this group , progression does not necessarily mean significant morbidity or death from prostate cancer . an aggressive approach is not justified . in contrast , stage a2 cancer is usually virulent , and aggressive therapy with curative intent is justified in patients of appropriate age and health . both radical prostatectomy and external irradiation appear to provide long-term survival rates superior to those obtained with observation alone , but nearly 20 % of these patients will die of cancer despite therapy . unfortunately , forecasting the outcome in an individual case is still not possible , and efforts to identify prognostic features must continue . in the meantime , emotional arguments in favor of the treatment of all discovered cancers must be suppressed by an informed and objective understanding of the natural history of nonpalpable prostate cancer and the potential impact of treatment . 
selection of patients with stage b prostate cancer for radical prostatectomy . there are several areas of concern in dealing with clinical stage b disease . first , understaging is common . second , recognition of extension into the seminal vesicles is important . third , the patient 's predicted life expectancy must be taken into account . moreover , even clinically localized prostate cancer may have metastasized , and the need for surgical staging by lymph node dissection has been a significant factor in the authors ' preference for radical retropubic rather than radical perineal prostatectomy . neither of the two serum markers in clinical use is an absolute predictor of stage . analysis of tumor ploidy may prove useful , and transrectal ultrasound warrants further study . in the elderly patient , the urologist certainly may elect to monitor the tumor without definitely deciding on operative versus conservative treatment . 
significance and treatment of positive margins or seminal vesicle invasion after radical prostatectomy . the periprostatic soft-tissue involvement described in the older urologic literature differs from that now recognized ; a much " earlier " pathologic stage c is being identified . apparent microscopic extension of the cancer to the margin of the specimen yields an approximately 25 % risk of local recurrence . postoperative radiation apparently is effective in reducing this risk , and if patients are properly selected , such treatment is well tolerated . whether adjuvant radiation affects overall survival is not known . new observations on pathologic extension of the disease need to be refined . 
prostate-specific antigen for staging prior to surgery and for early detection of recurrence after surgery . the exact usefulness of prostate-specific antigen for staging before radical prostatectomy is still unclear . perhaps the marker 's most exciting feature is its value in detecting residual disease after radical prostatectomy . the author also discusses the technical questions in testing and interpretation . 
local failure and related complications after definitive treatment of carcinoma of the prostate by irradiation or surgery . the authors review their institution 's experience with the failure of definitive treatment to achieve local tumor control and with the distant dissemination and local morbidity associated with such failure . the causes of local failure are various : incomplete resection , implantation of spilled cells , and , possibly , selective implantation of circulating tumor cells in traumatized tissues after surgery and totally or partially resistant cells , new tumors , or radiologic misses after radiation . treatment of local failure may be prophylactic or therapeutic and differs depending on the stage of the disease . failure to control the tumor locally in the presence of distant metastases does not alter the length of survival , but it can profoundly affect the quality of survival . 
new concepts in the treatment of stage d1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate . stage d1 disease will be encountered in 20 per cent of patients by those who treat prostate cancer . there is marked heterogeneity among cancers discovered at this stage , with 5-year disease-free survival rates ranging from 0 to 95 per cent . generally , when prostate cancer has escaped the confines of the gland , metastasis occurs , and widespread systemic disease prevails . any significant chance for long-term cure will then depend on systemic therapy . from maturing data in retrospective reviews , preliminary data from prospective trials , and recent well-conducted animal studies , chemotherapy and hormonal deprivation appear most effective when tumor volumes are the smallest . this evidence supports the removal of all cancer possible and the early institution of systemic treatment . caution must be exercised in extrapolating the aforementioned evidence to include cases of more extensive prostate cancer ( i.e. , patients with bulky pelvic or retroperitoneal disease , distant metastasis , or significant elevation of serum markers ) . it is doubtful that " debulking " with removal of the prostate and lymph nodes will provide any justifiable advantages in these patients . whether removal of the prostate affords any local palliative benefit is an issue for debate . certainly , the primary tumor , if left untreated , will progress locally and cause symptoms necessitating further procedures in more than half these patients , whereas the incidence of local recurrence and the adverse effects of these recurrences in patients with d1 disease after radical prostatectomy and adjuvant therapy is less than 10 per cent . surgical refinements coupled with acceptably low morbidity now associated with radical prostatectomy have led some authors to endorse the palliative benefits of removing the primary tumor in selected patients . the purpose of this article is not to endorse or disparage the aggressive treatment of patients with stage d1 prostate cancer . the evidence suggests that if long-term survival is the endpoint used to compare treatment groups , then to date no treatment option offers significant advantages . on the contrary , if progression rates or disease-free survival are compared , then cytoreductive surgery and early systemic adjuvant treatment ( testosterone deprivation or chemotherapy ) provides significant advantages for selected patients with stage d1 disease . although ploidy analysis , receptor mapping , and oncogene assays are promising , today , there is no practical way to identify patients who will benefit most from multimodality treatment approaches . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
low incidence of asymptomatic brain metastases in patients with renal cell carcinoma . brain metastases from renal cell carcinoma are uncommon . the present study was undertaken to determine the value of routine computerized tomographic ( ct ) scanning of the brain in patients with renal cell carcinoma . a review of 106 patients with renal cell carcinoma who had undergone ct scan of the brain revealed brain metastases in only 13.2 percent . brain metastases were accompanied by central nervous system ( cns ) symptoms in 78.6 percent of patients , with headaches constituting the most common presenting symptom ( 64.3 % ) . brain metastases were detected in only 3.3 percent of patients who had no cns symptoms at the time of evaluation . it is concluded that ct scanning of the brain should be performed routinely only for those patients who report cns symptoms at the time of evaluation . 
is urethral sparing at cystectomy a safe procedure ? urethrectomy is performed with cystectomy when the neoplasm is multifocal , at the bladder neck , or associated with carcinoma in situ ( cis ) . the records of the most recent 20 patients treated by radical cystectomy at our institution were reviewed . in 50 percent of the cases , the extent of disease within the bladder was found to have been underestimated to the point that a urethral sparing operation ( i.e. , to maintain urinary continence with an intestinal segment and an intact urethra ) might have been dangerous . 
neodymium : yag laser treatment of bladder hemangiomas . we present 3 cases of bladder hemangiomas , one single and two multiple , with a long-term history of recurrent hematuria , treated with endoscopic neodymium : yag ( yttrium , aluminum , garnet ) laser photocoagulation , and obtaining good results . 
squamous cell carcinoma antigen ( ta-4 ) in penile carcinoma . ta-4 antigen , originally isolated from women with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix , is elevated in the sera of patients with squamous cell carcinomas of several sites , including esophagus , lungs , and head and neck . in this study , we compared the serum levels of ta-4 in normal volunteers , patients with resected penile squamous cell carcinoma , and patients with metastatic penile squamous cell carcinoma . ta-4 values were elevated in 5 of 11 patients ( 45 % ) who had metastatic disease . in 2 , ta-4 was normal the first time metastasis was clinically detected but rose as the disease progressed . moreover , in 3 patients in whom serial determinations were made , serum ta-4 values correlated well with disease progression and response to treatment . we conclude that ta-4 values are elevated in some patients with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the penis and may become a useful marker for monitoring response to therapy . 
inverted papilloma of renal pelvis : flexible ureteroscopic diagnosis and treatment . a case is reported of inverted papilloma of the renal pelvis in a patient with previous transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . the renal pelvic lesion was diagnosed and treated with a flexible ureteropyeloscope . although nephroureterectomy was avoided , the patient must be carefully followed endoscopically and radiographically for recurrence of lesions throughout the urinary tract . this case represents the first report of the endoscopic diagnosis and treatment of an inverted papilloma of the renal pelvis . it demonstrates the vast potential for endoscopic diagnosis , treatment , and surveillance throughout the urinary tract . 
improved early detection of recurrence in prostatic carcinoma following hormonal therapy . combined use of palpation and fine needle aspiration cytology . fifty-nine hormonally treated prostatic carcinoma patients were prospectively followed by rectal examination and fine needle aspiration cytology at six-month intervals for periods ranging from six to one hundred twenty months ( median follow-up 48 mos ) . the cytologic findings and clinical impressions were divided into four or five categories , respectively , ranging from benign to clearly malignant . cytologic material and clinical descriptions suitable for evaluation were available for 306 follow-up examinations . of these , 209 were cytologically benign ( including 191 without and 18 with clinical evidence of malignancy ) . the remaining 97 examinations showed cytologic evidence of malignancy of which 50 were clinically apparent ( 51.5 % ) . while the correlation of clinical and cytologic findings was good ( 91.4 % ) in cases with no evidence of disease activity , our findings indicate that many recurrences which are occult to clinical examination may be detected by cytologic examination . 
staging of ureteral transitional cell carcinoma by ct and mri . intravenous urography and retrograde pyelography are the primary radiologic studies for detecting ureteral carcinoma but give limited information regarding stage of disease . computed tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) delineate the extent of ureteral carcinomas with a high degree of accuracy by depicting the periureteral fat and presence or absence of lymphadenopathy . in selected cases , ct and mri are valuable for assessing the presence or absence of tumor in a ureteral stump and for the differential diagnosis of ureteral obstruction . five cases of ureteral carcinoma and 2 cases of stump carcinoma are presented with preoperative ct and/or mri evaluation and staging . 
uneventful delivery following series of successive treatments for virilized cushing syndrome due to adrenocortical carcinoma . a twenty-one-year-old virilized woman with cushing syndrome due to a huge adrenocortical carcinoma was successively treated with trilostane ( 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase inhibitor ) , subsequent adrenalectomy , and postoperative cis-platinum . clinical or biochemical abnormalities peculiar to cushing syndrome gradually subsided , and three and one-half years after the adrenal surgery , the patient delivered a normal female infant . this study points out some of the clinical and biochemical responses of each treatment . 
single polypoid cystitis cystica and glandularis presenting as benign bladder tumor . a case report of a ten-year-old boy with a benign polypoid bladder tumor is presented . the rarity of benign or malignant bladder tumors in children is reviewed , as well as the possible etiology of this unique lesion . 
transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis after m-vac ( methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin , and cisplatin ) chemotherapy . the m-vac ( methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin , and cisplatin ) regimen has been utilized at our two institutions to treat 17 patients with advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . we report 2 cases of carcinomatous meningitis resulting from metastatic transitional cell carcinoma which occurred in patients treated with m-vac . review of the literature suggests that our experience with central nervous system metastases is not unique , and that treatment of advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder with m-vac may enhance the incidence of meningeal metastases . carcinomatous meningitis , although rare , is a rapidly fatal manifestation of metastatic transitional cell carcinoma if left untreated . however , prompt diagnosis and early aggressive therapy may result in palliation and stabilization of neurologic status . we review the pathophysiology , diagnosis , and treatment of transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis . 
selenium . nutritional , toxicologic , and clinical aspects despite the recent findings of environmental contamination , selenium toxicosis in humans is exceedingly rare in the united states , with the few known cases resulting from industrial accidents and an episode involving the ingestion of superpotent selenium supplements . chronic selenosis is essentially unheard of in this country because of the typical diversity of the american diet . nonetheless , because of the growing public interest in selenium as a dietary supplement and the occurrence of environmental selenium contamination , medical practitioners should be familiar with the nutritional , toxicologic , and clinical aspects of this trace element . 
apocrine mammary carcinoma . a clinicopathologic study of 72 cases . apocrine carcinoma ( ac ) is an uncommon , poorly characterized type of breast tumor . in this review , 55 patients with intraductal ( id ) ac and 17 patients with infiltrating ( if ) ac were analyzed retrospectively to define the histologic features and clinical course of this neoplasm . recurrences in the breast occurred in 3 of 20 id-ac patients treated by biopsy alone , but not in the 2 patients who received local radiation therapy after biopsy . one patient with id-ac had axillary metastases at the time of treatment by mastectomy and died of disease five years later . the remaining patients with id-ac treated by mastectomy have remained disease free . one of the three patients with if-ac treated by biopsy alone died of disease , and one of two patients with if-ac treated by biopsy and radiotherapy was alive with carcinoma . twelve patients with if-ac were treated by mastectomy . ten of them were recurrence free at the time of last observation . more than one-third of the cases of id-ac and if-ac were detected by mammography alone . survival analysis of if-ac cases compared with nonapocrine duct carcinoma cases matched for stage revealed no statistical difference in estimated recurrence-free survival or estimated survival probability . ac is a distinct morphologic entity with a natural history similar to that of nonapocrine ductal carcinoma . 
characterization of the morphonuclear features and dna ploidy of typical and atypical carcinoids and small cell carcinomas of the lung . the authors analyzed several cytomorphonuclear parameters related to chromatin distribution and dna ploidy in typical and atypical carcinoids and in small cell lung cancers . nuclear measurements and analysis were performed with a samba 200 ( titn , grenoble , france ) cell image processor with software allowing the discrimination of parameters computed on cytospin preparations of feulgen-stained nuclei extracted from deparaffinized tumor tissues . the authors ' results indicate a significant increase in dna content -- assessed by integrated optical density ( iod ) -- from typical carcinoids to small cell lung carcinomas , with atypical carcinoids showing an intermediate value . parameters related to hyperchromatism ( short and long run length and variance of optical density ) also characterize the atypical carcinoids as being intermediate between typical carcinoids and small cell lung cancers . the systematic measurement of these cytomorphonuclear parameters seems to define an objective , reproducible " scale " of differentiation that helps to define the atypical carcinoid and may be of value in establishing cytologic criteria for differential diagnosis . 
merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testis . tumor metastases to the testes are rare and are usually found incidentally at autopsy or after orchiectomy for prostatic carcinoma . it is even more unusual for testicular metastases to be clinically detected or symptomatic . the authors report two cases of clinically detected testicular metastases from merkel cell carcinoma of the skin . merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testes has not been reported previously . the two tumors , to some degree , resembled testicular lymphomas and the interstitial type of seminoma . 
bcr/abl recombinant dna analysis versus karyotype in the diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring of chronic myeloid leukemia . karyotype and bcr/abl recombinant dna analyses are two means of detecting the chromosomal aberration in chronic myeloid leukemia . the authors compared these two methods in a retrospective study of 36 patients with cml in which they found the bcr/abl dna recombinant event in 100 % ( 29 of 29 ) of those patients who had the philadelphia chromosome . to achieve this sensitivity , a battery of two bcr probes and three restriction enzymes is necessary . the authors propose a sequential algorithm for efficient use of these probes and enzymes . in 76 % of the patients , bcr/abl rearrangement can be detected with a bgl ii digest and a 3 ' commercial probe . an additional 21 % of patients can be detected by a second assay in which the same membrane is rehybridized to a 3 ' and 5 ' combination bcr probe . one patient ( 3 % ) required an additional restriction enzyme digest with bamh i to detect the recombinant event by the same 3 ' probe . karyotype analysis is used to determine cytogenetic remission in patients with cml under therapy . the authors studied the use of dna analysis by the southern blot technique to detect a decrease in the relative number of leukemic cells . by dilution studies and densitometric scanning of autoradiographs , the authors were able to detect a 15 % decrease in the relative number of cells having the bcr/abl recombinant event . the authors report the preliminary results of three patients in whom they compared the karyotype and recombinant dna analysis at multiple time points in their clinical course . in conclusion , the bcr/abl recombinant dna analysis is superior to karyotype for the diagnosis of cml and can be used for monitoring treated patients . 
free alpha subunit of the pituitary glycoprotein hormones . measurement in serum and tissue of patients with pituitary tumors . a solid-phase radioimmunoassay was developed that measures the free alpha subunits of pituitary glycoprotein hormones ( alpha pgphs ) and has negligible cross-reactivity with the intact hormones ( less than 0.014 % for thyroid-stimulating hormone [ tsh ] , less than 0.1 % for human chorionic gonadotropin [ hcg ] , 0.8 % for luteinizing hormone [ lh ] , and 2.0 % for follicle-stimulating hormone [ fsh ] ) . the assay is standardized with the alpha subunit of hcg but also reacts well with the alpha subunits of the other glycoprotein hormones ( 84 % for alpha tsh , 77 % for alpha fsh , and 64 % for alpha lh ) . concentrations as low as 0.3 micrograms/l can be reliably measured , and the 97.5 % reference range in 27 healthy adults , including postmenopausal females , is less than or equal to 1.2 micrograms/l . elevated preoperative alpha pgph concentrations were found in 45 ( 9.4 % ) of 479 sera from patients with pituitary adenoma and 3 ( 4.5 % ) of 66 patients with nonadenomatous sellar lesions . postoperative alpha pgph levels were lower in 30 of 39 adenoma patients and 2 of 3 nonadenoma patients . in five ( 1 % ) of the patients with pituitary adenomas , alpha pgph was the only elevated serum hormone marker . serum values of alpha pgph correlate weakly with alpha subunit immunocytochemical staining -- 95 % of those with negative staining have normal alpha pgph values , but only 18 % of those with positive staining have elevated alpha pgph values . 
the use of molecular probes to distinguish new primary tumors from recurrent tumors in gynecologic malignancies . this is the first report using dna molecular probe technology to distinguish between recurrent tumor and a second primary malignancy in a patient . tumor dna was extracted from squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix at the time of radical hysterectomy . eighteen months later a squamous cell cancer was found in a vaginal apex biopsy from which dna was extracted . tumor dna from both lesions was subjected to restriction enzyme digestion and dna molecular hybridization with human papillomavirus ( hpv ) probes . although both lesions were positive for hpv 16 , their respective restriction enzyme patterns had different hpv genetic arrangements , thereby demonstrating their distinctness . 
the frequency of uterine leiomyomas . as a leading cause of hysterectomy in premenopausal women . uterine leiomyomas are a major public health problem . however , very little work has been done on their epidemiology . indeed , their true frequency has never been established using systematic and meticulous methods . in this study , gross serial sectioning at 2-mm intervals was applied as an adjunct to routine pathology processing in 100 consecutive total hysterectomy specimens . this tripled the number of leiomyomas noted in routine pathology reports . there were 649 leiomyomas in 77 of 100 uteri , with multiplicity of leiomyomas in 84 % . although leiomyomas were more numerous and larger in women with a clinical diagnosis of myomatous uterus , the incidence was no higher than in uteri removed for other reasons . the postmenopausal incidence of leiomyomas was no lower than the premenopausal incidence , although postmenopausal leiomyomas were smaller and fewer . these findings suggest that epidemiologic studies of leiomyomas may not be valid if they are based only on clinical diagnoses or routine pathology reports . 
thyroid carcinoma with mixed tall-cell and columnar-cell features . tall-cell and columnar-cell carcinomas have been regarded as aggressive variants of papillary thyroid carcinoma . in the present case report the authors describe a composite tumor where these forms of differentiation coexisted , with transitional changes occurring within single follicular structures . this finding indicates that the two variants are closely related . in local recurrences , one or the other feature appeared in separate lesions . lung metastases developed , and the patient died 5 1/2 years after diagnosis and primary treatment . 
anaplastic large cell ( ki-1 ) lymphoma with histiocytic phenotype simulating carcinoma . histiocytic and epithelial cell types share many cytomorphologic and functional characteristics ; it is predictable , therefore , that corresponding malignancies might be difficult to distinguish . described is the case of a 52-year-old woman in whom disseminated anaplastic large-cell lymphoma simulated carcinomatosis by conventional morphologic criteria . evidence of histiocytic differentiation was derived from immunocytochemical , fine structural , and genetic probe analyses . the diagnosis of histiocytic neoplasia is discussed in relation to categories previously termed malignant histiocytosis , " ki-1 " lymphoma , and regressing atypical histiocytosis , and comparisons are made with animal tumor models . 
isolation of measles virus in primary rhesus monkey cells from a child with acute interstitial pneumonia who cytologically had giant-cell pneumonia without a rash . the isolation of measles virus in primary rhesus monkey kidney cells ( prmk ) in patients with documented giant-cell pneumonia who have presented without a rash is limited . the diagnosis usually is made by cytologic examination of nasal or bronchial secretions in which characteristic multinucleated giant cells with intranuclear and intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies are observed . the diagnosis of giant-cell pneumonia has been associated with measles virus but not exclusively . canine distemper , herpes group viruses , and parainfluenza infections have been associated with these cells . in addition , vitamin a deficiency also has been cytologically associated with multinucleated giant cells . the authors describe the isolation of measles virus from bronchial washing and sputum in prmk cells at 4 days from an 11-year-old child with acute interstitial pneumonia who was in remission for acute lymphocytic leukemia . classic cytopathologic effect ( cpe ) consisting of syncytial and hole formation on the prmk monolayer was apparent . in addition , a foamy appearance of the monolayer was noted in an otherwise clean lot of monkey cells . confirmatory testing with measles antibody of the infected areas of the monolayer by indirect immunofluorescence ( ifa ) was positive for measles antigen and negative for mumps , parainfluenza ( types i , ii , and iii ) and influenza a and b virus . serologic studies for measles antibody revealed an ifa igg titer of greater than 1:10,240 , and an igm titer of 1:128 . cytologic examination of the same bronchial fluid revealed the typical giant cells with characteristic inclusions associated with measles virus . because this disease usually is severe , and often fatal , prompt recognition of this virus is essential , not only to the patient , who can be treated with immunoglobulin and/or antiviral therapy , but also to prevent the spread of the virus to other patients and medical personnel . these findings also support direct evidence for the etiologic role of measles virus in giant-cell pneumonia that has been detected either histologically or cytologically and in tissue culture at autopsy . 
a diagnostic expert system for colonic lesions . the diagnostic expert system for colonic lesions ( descl ) was designed to discriminate colonic adenoma and adenocarcinoma from normal colonic tissue . although it was originally developed for use in conjunction with a machine vision analytic system , the descl has evolved into a teaching tool and a model for conceptual machine learning . the expert system is table driven and consists of a shell and a knowledge base . the latter comprises a series of architectural and cytologic observations and a quantitative estimate of diagnostic importance relating these observations to diagnostic outcome . in a validation study of 100 colonic lesions , the expert system achieved a success rate of 98 % . it has the flexibility to allow individual pathologists to " customize " the knowledge base to suit their diagnostic criteria . 
estimation of pr and er by immunocytochemistry in breast cancer . comparison with radioligand binding methods . immunocytochemical assays for progesterone receptor ( pr ) using monoclonal antirabbit pr antibodies ( pr-ica ) and for estrogen receptor ( er ) ( er-ica ) were compared with radioligand binding ( dextran-coated charcoal [ dcc ] ) methods for receptor determination in patients with breast cancer . immunocytochemical staining for pr was exclusively nuclear in localization . in this regard , pr staining is similar to previous findings for er ; pr-ica showed a sensitivity of 89 % and specificity of 100 % . er-ica was also 89 % sensitive and similarly specific . there was good correlation between the degree and intensity of staining and quantitative binding of radioligand . receptor-positive tumors , however , show considerable variation of immunocytochemical staining , suggesting heterogeneity of cellular pr content . the availability of an immunocytochemical assay for pr increases the discriminatory potential for these methods of receptor determination . 
brake mechanics , asbestos , and disease risk . health risks posed by inhalable asbestos fibers are known to exist in a variety of industrial and nonindustrial settings . although early studies described an increased risk of asbestosis , lung cancer , and mesothelioma in asbestos-industry workers , subsequent research revealed the existence of a potential asbestos-related health hazard in nonasbestos industries such as the textile and railroad industries . brake mechanics and garage workers constitute a large work force with potential exposures to levels of asbestos capable of producing disease . unfortunately , the health risk faced by these workers has received little attention . this article briefly discusses currently available information on the asbestos health risks of workers in this setting , and highlights the need for further investigations of this occupational group . 
clinical significance of colonic fermentation . recent evidence of the potential benefits of short chain fatty acids has prompted renewed interest in the area of human colonic fermentation . this paper reviews the clinical and metabolic consequences of colonic fermentation . 
features distinguishing secondary achalasia from primary achalasia . eighteen patients with cancer-induced or secondary achalasia ( sa ) were compared to 421 patients with idiopathic or primary achalasia ( pa ) . the aim of the study was to detect any differences in clinical presentation between the two groups . mean age of patients with sa was 57.1 ( range 15-78 ) and 47.1 ( range 1-90 ) in patients with pa ( p = 0.02 ) . three patients with sa were 15 , 24 , and 36 yr old , respectively . symptom frequency was comparable in sa versus pa . mean duration of symptoms in sa was 4.5 months , with 15 of the 18 patients experiencing symptoms for six months or less . weight loss occurred in 88.2 % of patients with sa and 57.3 % of patients with pa ( p less than 0.05 ) . cancer was at the gastroesophageal junction in 16 patients , duodenum in one , and breast in one . endoscopy showed tumor in 12 ( 67 % ) . the esophagram was suspicious for tumor in only 25 % . we conclude that patients with sa are older , more likely to lose weight , and have a short duration of symptoms . however , sa may occur in younger patients , and endoscopy with biopsy is necessary in any newly diagnosed case of achalasia . 
the value of push-type jejunal endoscopy in familial adenomatosis coli/gardner 's syndrome . push-type jejunal endoscopy using a long forward-viewing duodenofiberscope was performed in 10 patients with familial adenomatosis coli/gardner 's syndrome . jejunal polypoid lesions were detected in nine of the 10 patients ( 90 % ) . the lesions appeared sessile , whitish , and measured 3 mm or less in diameter . histologic findings of the biopsy specimens from these polypoid lesions revealed tubular adenoma in all nine patients . in addition , this method led to the detection of duodenal adenomas in one patient , in whom duodenofiberscopy with the side-viewing instrument revealed no polypoid lesions in the bulb and second portion of the duodenum . in view of these results , we recommend that push-type jejunal endoscopy , as well as side-viewing duodenofiberscopy , should be added to the usual preoperative examinations done in patients with this disease . 
comparison of a new immunoassay for determining serum pancreatic isoamylase with two standard techniques . a method has recently been developed for measuring serum pancreatic ( p ) isoamylase , using two monoclonal antibodies specific for salivary isoamylase . we performed this test on 67 healthy controls and 133 patients : 15 with acute pancreatitis , 53 with chronic pancreatitis ( 20 during painful relapse and 33 in clinical remission ) , 18 with pancreatic cancer , 41 with nonpancreatic disease with abdominal pain , five with macroamylasemia , and one with total pancreatectomy . results were compared with those of a wheat germ inhibition method and with electrophoresis on cellulose acetate . a close correlation was found between the results of immunoinhibition assay and those of the other two tests . all patients with acute pancreatitis had abnormally high values in all three tests . in the group with chronic pancreatitis studied during painful relapse , 16 had an increase in p-isoamylase , as determined with the immunoinhibition assay , 13 with the wheat germ inhibition test , and 15 with electrophoresis . in the group with chronic pancreatitis in clinical remission , we found low values in one patient , by immunoinhibition assay , but found low values in 17 and 19 patients by wheat germ inhibition and electrophoresis , respectively . low p-isoamylase values corresponded to a severe exocrine pancreatic insufficiency . in the group with pancreatic cancer , the three tests showed similar results , and the majority of the patients had normal values . in the patients with nonpancreatic diseases , abnormally high levels were found in five , by immunoassay , in four by electrophoresis , and in three by the wheat germ inhibition method . in the five cases with macroamylasemia , both inhibition assays erroneously demonstrated an abnormal p-isoamylase elevation . the results show that the three tests are equally useful for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis , or chronic pancreatitis during an acute relapse . in these diseases , the immunoinhibition test would be the preferred assay because it is simple and rapidly performed . 
in vivo evaluation of monopolar versus bipolar electrosurgical polypectomy snares . the energy required and tissue damage in bipolar and monopolar polypectomy snares were compared in a canine model . the bipolar snare required an average of 34 joules of energy , whereas the monopolar snare required 228 joules to cut the same diameter of gastric mucosa tended into a polypoid structure ( p = 0.0005 ) . the reduced energy delivered to the tissue from the bipolar procedure resulted in only 32 % average depth of damage to the underlying gastric wall , whereas the monopolar procedure caused an average 69 % ( p = 0.001 ) . surgically created polyps required 247 joules and 69 joules for corresponding monopolar and bipolar polypectomy ( p = 0.001 ) . the decreased energy required and the correspondingly reduced damage caused to the underlying bowel wall by the bipolar snare should reduce the incidence of perforation and post-polypectomy syndrome . the bipolar snare completes a local circuit about the snare , eliminating the return electrode and , consequently , the possibility of any return electrode burns . the bipolar snare thus provides an added safety margin during polypectomy . 
endoscopic ultrasonography in staging rectal cancer . endoscopic ultrasonography ( eus ) was used to stage rectal cancer by assessing depth of invasion through bowel wall layers and/or involvement of lymph nodes . eus findings were correlated with histopathologic findings to discern the usefulness of this modality in predicting which patients could be candidates for sphinctersaving procedures and the avoidance of abdominoperineal resection . the olympus eu-m3 endoscopic ultrasound system was used to assess depth of penetration through rectal wall layers and to identify lymph nodes . comparison of eus findings to histopathologic findings was possible in 13 patients . eus agreed with histopathology in 9 of 13 cases ( 69.3 % ) ( p = 0.07 , kappa statistic ) . eus agreed with histopathology as the presence or absence of lymph nodes in 9 of 13 cases ( 69.3 % ) ( p = 0.07 ) . however , the presence of lymph nodes could not necessarily predict metastatic involvement of these nodes . in one patient , invasion of vaginal cuff was correctly predicted . in nine cases , computed tomographic analysis ( ct ) was available for comparison to eus in detection of penetration beyond the bowel wall . ct agreed with histopathology in 3 of 9 ( 33 % ) , whereas eus agreed with histopathology in 7 of 9 ( 78 % ) . 
hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with persistent helicobacter pylori infection and active gastritis . we report two cases of patients with 3-yr histories of upper gastrointestinal symptoms , hyperplastic gastric polyps , and active chronic gastritis . biopsies retrospectively stained with giemsa revealed the persistent presence of helicobacter pylori ( hp ) in gastric biopsies of both patients throughout the 3 yr . after treatment with amoxicillin and bismuth subsalicylate , both became asymptomatic , one demonstrating disappearance and recurrence of the gastric polyps in conjunction with the hp . these cases demonstrate 3 yr of hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with hp and active gastritis . 
gallbladder carcinoma producing human chorionic gonadotropin . a primary carcinoma of the gallbladder producing human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) was encountered in an 83-yr-old japanese woman , with elevation of hcg/beta-hcg in urine and serum . remarkable elevation of serum estradiol was an associated finding , with increased hcg . at autopsy , we found that the primary carcinoma of the gallbladder extensively involved the liver . histologically , the tumor revealed adenosquamous cell carcinoma in the primary site , and moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in metastatic foci . immunohistochemical staining for beta-hcg showed a positive reaction in adenocarcinoma components . this is an extremely rare case of an hcg-producing gallbladder carcinoma , which leads us to speculate that hcg-positive tumor cells may occur due to dedifferentiation . 
hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and consumption coagulopathy . we describe a case of hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with both microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ( maha ) and consumption coagulopathy , but without thrombocytopenia , which was completely cured by surgical resection of the tumor . the patient was a 54-yr-old japanese woman whose chief complaint was right upper abdominal discomfort . angiography and dynamic computed tomography revealed typical findings of hepatic cavernous hemangioma . the patient also had hematological disorders . at surgery , we performed an atypical right lobectomy to preserve as much normal liver tissue as possible . the patient has been well , with no related complaints or abnormal laboratory findings , 5 yr since her operation . this case indicates that giant cavernous hemangioma of the liver should be considered in the differential diagnosis of maha , and if surgical treatment is adequate , hematological abnormalities may be eliminated . 
genitourinary cancer in the elderly . the subject of genitourinary cancer in the elderly becomes increasingly more important as our population of patients older than 50 years expands . carcinoma of the kidney , bladder , and prostate all have an increasing incidence over the age of 50 and have a predilection for afflicting men more commonly than women . etiologic factors , especially with bladder and kidney carcinomas , are well documented and in some cases preventable . screening the urine for hematuria and careful digital rectal examinations may uncover a higher percentage of these malignancies in earlier , more curable stages . recent advances in the treatment of all of these malignancies have improved survival and quality of life for these patients . 
prevention of renal disease and conservation of renal function . in summary , we have reviewed some of the most frequently encountered areas of prevention of renal failure in the elderly . they include obstruction , hypertension , drug interaction , and inappropriate use of drugs and the silent killer of the elderly , renal carcinoma . only by a thorough understanding of the altered physiology of the aging kidney can the physician avoid making the same mistakes when new drugs are developed or new types of diseases are encountered . proper early diagnosis and understanding the guidelines to therapy in these conditions , can save huge human costs in terms of mortality , morbidity , and money . 
genetics and biology of human ovarian teratomas . i. cytogenetic analysis and mechanism of origin . one hundred and two benign , mature ovarian teratomas and two immature , malignant teratomas were karyotyped and scored for centromeric heteromorphisms as part of an ongoing project to determine the chromosomal karyotype and the genetic origin of ovarian teratomas and to assess their utility for gene-centromere mapping . karyotypic analysis of the benign cases revealed 95 46 , xx teratomas and 7 chromosomally abnormal teratomas ( 47 , xxx , 47 , xx , +8 [ two cases ] , 47 , xx , +15 , 48 , xx , +7 , +12 91,xxxx,-13 [ mosaic ] , 47,xx,-15 , +21 , + mar ) . our study reports on the first cases of tetraploidy and structural rearrangement in benign ovarian teratomas . the two immature cases had modal chromosome numbers of 78 and 49 . centromeric heteromorphisms that were heterozygous in the host were homozygous in 65.2 % ( n = 58 ) of the benign teratomas and heterozygous in the remaining 34.8 % ( n = 31 ) . chromosome 13 heteromorphisms were the most informative , with 72.7 % heterozygosity in hosts . the cytogenetic data indicate that 65 % of teratomas are derived from a single germ cell after meiosis i and failure of meiosis ii ( type ii ) or endoreduplication of a mature ovum ( type iii ) ; 35 % arise by failure of meiosis i ( type i ) or mitotic division of premeiotic germ cells ( type iv ) . 
genetics and biology of human ovarian teratomas . ii . molecular analysis of origin of nondisjunction and gene-centromere mapping of chromosome i markers . chromosomal heteromorphisms and dna polymorphisms have been utilized to identify the mechanisms that lead to formation of human ovarian teratomas and to construct a gene-centromere map of chromosome 1 by using those teratomas that arise by meiotic nondisjunction . of 61 genetically informative ovarian teratomas , 21.3 % arose by nondisjunction at meiosis i , and 39.3 % arose by meiosis ii nondisjunction . eight polymorphic marker loci on chromosome 1p and one marker on 1q were used to estimate a gene-centromere map . the results show clear linkage of the most proximal 1p marker ( nras ) and the most proximal 1q marker ( d1s61 ) to the centromere at a distance of 14 cm and 20 cm , respectively . estimated gene-centromere distances suggest that , while recombination occurs normally in ovarian teratomas arising by meiosis ii errors , ovarian teratomas arising by meiosis i nondisjunction have altered patterns of recombination . furthermore , the estimated map demonstrates clear evidence of chiasma interference . our results suggest that ovarian teratomas can provide a rapid method for mapping genes relative to the centromere . 
equal parental origin of chromosome 22 losses in human sporadic meningioma : no evidence for genomic imprinting . inactivation of tumor suppressor genes can occur either by mutation at the gene locus or by loss of part or all of the chromosome region containing the gene . the latter is most frequently detected by dna markers as loss of heterozygosity in the tumor tissue . in several reports , the paternal homologue was preferentially retained in embryonal tumors associated with loss of particular chromosomal regions , suggesting genomic imprinting of the corresponding tumor suppressor loci . to explore the generality of these findings and the possible role of genomic imprinting in adult tumors of the nervous system , we have determined the parental origin of chromosome 22 loss in sporadic meningioma . of nine cases studied , five tumors retained the maternally derived chromosome 22 homologue while four retained the paternally derived chromosome 22 . thus , in contrast to the embryonal tumors , the meningioma locus on chromosome 22 is inactivated by random mutation in sporadic adult meningiomas . 
the effect of large uterine fibroids on urinary bladder function and symptoms . fourteen patients with large uterine fibroids and urinary symptoms were treated with monthly injections of [ d-trp6 ] - luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone microcapsules . the average uterine size before treatment was 728 ml ; it dropped to 323 ml ( a drop of 55 % ) after treatment . urinary symptoms of diurnal frequency disappeared in 11 of 12 patients ( p less than 0.005 ) after the reduction of uterine size . urgency decreased in 11 of 13 ( p less than 0.005 ) and nocturia in eight of 10 ( p less than 0.02 ) . no differences were found before and after treatment in the symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence in the cystometric and urethral pressure profile measurements . urinary symptoms of frequency , urgency , and nocturia may be caused by the direct pressure exerted on the bladder by the enlarged uterus . symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence deserve a more specific treatment as they are not related to uterine size . 
successful conservative management of primary nonmetastatic cervical choriocarcinoma . primary cervical choriocarcinoma is a rare disease ; since 1915 only about 60 cases have been published . the case presented here can be defined as primary cervical choriocarcinoma since it fulfills all the criteria delineated previously . 
the prognostic significance of ca 125 half-life in patients with ovarian cancer who have received primary chemotherapy after surgical cytoreduction . fifty-four patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer were monitored with serial serum ca 125 levels after surgical cytoreduction and during multi-agent chemotherapy with cisplatin-containing regimens . ca 125 half-life of less than 20 days was associated with prolonged overall survival ( p less than 0.015 ) . in those patients who eventually were found to be disease-free at surgical surveillance procedures , normalization of serum ca 125 levels to less than 35 u/ml within 65 days of primary operation also suggested an improved survival ( p less than 0.059 ) . 
colon cancer in pregnancy with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level at presentation . a case of colon cancer in pregnancy is presented in which the maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level was elevated . failure to evaluate colon cancer as a cause of the elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein may have accounted for the poor outcome . 
spontaneous infarction of placental chorioangioma and associated regression of hydrops fetalis . we report a case of a large chorioangioma diagnosed prenatally with concomitant meconium peritonitis and hydrops fetalis in the second trimester . spontaneous regression of the tumor occurred , associated with some resolution of the fetal hydrops and delivery near term with good neonatal outcome . 
suppression of serum insulin level by diazoxide does not alter serum testosterone or sex hormone-binding globulin levels in healthy , nonobese women . suppression of serum insulin levels with diazoxide is associated with a decrease in serum testosterone and an increase in serum sex hormone-binding globulin in obese women with the polycystic ovary syndrome . to determine whether physiologic insulin levels play a regulatory role in the androgen status of nonobese women with normal menses , the androgen status of five nonobese normal women was assessed on two occasions : during a control study and after 10 days of oral diazoxide ( 100 mg , three times daily ) administration . insulin release in response to 100 gm oral glucose administration decreased from 108.0 + / - 28.2 to 49.3 + / - 5.2 nmol.min / l ( p = 0.05 ) after diazoxide administration . however , despite suppression of insulin release , diazoxide administration did not affect serum total testosterone ( diazoxide , 0.73 + / - 0.10 ; control , 0.69 + / - 0.11 nmol/l ; p = ns ) or sex hormone-binding globulin ( diazoxide , 79.7 + / - 16.6 ; control , 70.2 + / - 12.6 nmol/l ; p = ns ) concentrations . these observations suggest that physiologic insulin levels in nonobese healthy women do not regulate testosterone metabolism and that diazoxide does not exert a direct or independent effect on serum testosterone or sex hormone-binding globulin levels . 
collagen metabolism in gynecologic patients : changes in the concentration of the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen in serum . we have previously found the serum concentration of the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen , an indicator of collagen metabolism , to be increased in advanced ovarian cancer . in this study we measured the serum aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen concentration in healthy women during the menstrual cycle and in patients with salpingo-oophoritis , leiomyomas , endometriosis , and benign ovarian tumors . the concentration was higher in the luteal phase than that in the follicular phase , suggesting an association of collagen metabolism with ovarian steroid hormones . severe salpingo-oophoritis increased the serum level of the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen with a decrease to normal during recovery . elevated values were occasionally seen in endometriosis and leiomyomas . these findings indicate that the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen is a relatively unspecific indicator of ovarian carcinoma . 
autologous antibodies eluted from membrane fragments in human ovarian epithelial neoplastic effusions . iii . cytotoxic potential in vitro and characterization of antigen ( s ) . cyst and ascites fluids from patients with ovarian epithelial neoplasms contain immunoglobulins with antitumor activity . autologous antibodies bound to the cellular membrane fragments obtained from human ovarian neoplastic effusions react with cell-surface antigens on different human ovarian cell lines , surgical specimens of human ovarian adenocarcinoma , and human ovarian tumors grown in athymic balb/c mice . the antibodies do not react with tissue preparations from normal human ovaries , other nonovarian normal or neoplastic tissues , and nonovarian human cell lines . these studies indicate that these antibodies are capable of complement-mediated lysis of human ovarian tumor cell lines in vitro . preliminary characterization of the autologous ovarian tumor-associated antigen ( s ) indicates that it may be composed of three large-molecular-weight proteins of 182,000 , 164,000 , and 122,000 d. 
the use of in situ hybridization to show human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid in metastatic cancer cells within lymph nodes . southern blot hybridization has been used to identify human papillomavirus types in both primary tumors and lymph node metastases . however , this technique requires fresh-frozen tissue and is incapable of localizing deoxyribonucleic acid sequences to specific cell types in the tumor sample . in contrast , in situ hybridization precisely locates viral sequences within tumor cells while preserving cellular architecture . further , in situ hybridization requires only small samples of formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissues . five lymph nodes ( from four patients ) containing metastatic cervical squamous tumor cells ( identified with hematoxylin and eosinophil staining ) were analyzed with in situ hybridization techniques with human papillomavirus type 16 deoxyribonucleic acid probes labeled with sulfur 35 . the primary cervical cancer from all four patients had been shown to contain human papillomavirus type 16 sequences by southern blot . three specimens from two patients clearly showed the presence of human papillomavirus type 16 sequences within the nuclei of metastatic tumor cells , whereas two specimens were nondiagnostic most likely as a result of the small volume of cancer relative to the size of the lymph node . this information indicates that it is the tumor cells themselves that contain viral deoxyribonucleic acid and provides additional evidence linking human papillomavirus with cervical carcinogenesis . 
oral contraceptives and breast cancer . among women in general the risk of breast cancer through 59 years of age does not appear to be affected appreciably by the use of oral contraceptives . nonetheless , concern continues to be expressed about the effects of early age at first use , long-term duration of use , formulation , and a variety of other factors thought to influence breast cancer risk in the presence of oral contraception . a number of recent studies restricted to young women suggest that long-term use may increase the risk of disease occurring very early , but the present lack of consistent findings in well-conducted epidemiologic studies prevents any certain conclusion with regard to cause-and-effect . however , if an increased risk were indeed present , the most plausible interpretation is that long-term oral contraception promotes earlier clinical manifestation of breast cancer in some women while having no net impact on their lifetime risk of the disease . 
vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors we used an investigational technique for the biopsy of intraocular tumors to aid in the diagnosis of three choroidal tumors . a three-port trans-pars plana vitrectomy was performed in conjunction with retinotomy , tumor biopsy , endophotocoagulation , and air-fluid exchange . vitrectomy was used to decrease the amount of traction secondary to retained vitreous after intraocular surgery . retinotomy sites were chosen under microscopic control to avoid large caliber retinal vessels . then a modified tumor-aspiration technique , together with endophotocoagulation and aspiration of intraoperative vitreous hemorrhages , provided an opportunity to sample tumor tissue continually at varied depths . we have added standard vitreous surgery concepts , techniques , and instrumentation to produce vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors . 
correlations of acoustic tissue typing of malignant melanoma and histopathologic features as a predictor of death . forty-six eyes with uveal melanoma were scanned with a computerized diagnostic ultrasound system before enucleation , and light microscope sections were obtained . tumors were characterized by ultrasonically measured dimensions and power spectrum analysis , which provided information not available in conventional a - or b-scan ultrasonography . histopathologic features , including cell clustering pattern , cell type , pigmentation , vascularity , and necrosis , were quantified . statistically significant correlations were found between parameters derived from the power spectrum and histologic characteristics . patients were followed up for up to ten years with 14 deaths occurring because of metastases . using a cox relative risk model with histopathologic data , a risk model comprising pigmentation and cell type ( p less than .0001 ) was obtained . using ultrasonic characteristics , a model comprising tumor volume and scatterer concentration ( p = .0062 ) was obtained . the results suggest that ultrasonic tissue characterization and three-dimensional biometry may provide improved in vivo prognostic indicators for uveal melanoma . 
magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy . three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging . the affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement . the magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence . 
limbal autograft reconstruction after conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma . two patients who had squamous cell carcinoma with extensive limbal and corneal involvement were treated with surgery and cryotherapy . rarely large areas of the cornea are involved by this tumor . visual prognosis in such patients is poor . in these two patients , autologous limbal transplants were effective in restoring an excellent corneal surface and good visual function . this technique may be useful in the reconstruction of eyes with extensive neoplastic involvement of the corneoscleral limbus and cornea . 
an immunohistochemical study of pi class glutathione s-transferase expression in normal human tissue . glutathione s-transferases ( gsts ) , a family of isoenzymes that play an important role in protecting cells from cytotoxic and carcinogenic agents , can be separated by biochemical and immunologic characteristics into three distinct classes named alpha , mu , and pi . previous studies have indicated that there is marked heterogeneity in the expression of different gst isoenzymes in different normal and malignant tissues . to better understand the regulation of the human pi class glutathione s-transferase isoenzyme ( gst-pi ) , the tissue distribution of this protein wa studied by an immunohistochemical technique using an anti-gst-pi polyclonal antibody in normal paraffin-embedded human tissues . these studies indicate that there is a broad distribution of gst-pi in normal human tissues and establish a precise localization within the different organs studied . gst-pi was expressed predominantly in normal epithelial cells of the urinary , digestive , and respiratory tracts , suggesting a possible role for gst-pi in detoxication and elimination of toxic substances . previous studies have indicated that gst-pi and the putative drug efflux pump p-glycoprotein are both overexpressed in multidrug-resistant human breast cancer cells and in xenobiotic resistant preneoplastic rat hyperplastic liver nodules . results from this study indicate that there are also similarities between the normal tissue distribution gst-pi and that previously reported for mammalian p-glycoprotein , particularly in secretory epithelia . this finding suggests that these two gene products , which have been implicated in the development of resistance to cytotoxic drugs , may be coregulated in normal and malignant cells . 
decreased expression of integrin adhesive protein receptors in adenocarcinoma of the breast . the integrin superfamily represents a major class of receptors mediating cell-substrate adhesion . our recent study of the tissue distribution of the alpha 2 beta 1 integrin , a cell-surface collagen receptor , revealed that high levels of receptor expression were associated with orderly , regulated epithelial cell proliferation . those observations prompted the present investigation of alpha 2 beta 1 and other integrins in adenocarcinoma of the breast . the alpha 2 beta 1 integrin was highly expressed on the epithelium of the ducts and ductules of normal breast tissue . normal or nearly normal levels of the receptor were expressed in fibroadenomas . in contrast , markedly decreased or undetectable alpha 2 beta 1 expression was typical of poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas . well-differentiated lesions exhibited intermediate levels of expression . similar , but less extensive , decreases in expression were observed for the alpha 5 beta 1 ( fibronectin receptor ) and alpha v beta 3 ( vitronectin receptor ) . significant expression of the beta 1 subunit on even poorly differentiated tumors suggests that the expression of other undefined members of the beta 1 family is not reduced to the same low level as alpha 2 beta 1 and alpha 5 beta 1 . expression of the alpha 2 beta 1 integrin was highly correlated with estrogen-receptor expression . decreased expression of alpha 2 beta 1 and other integrin adhesive protein receptors probably contributes to the altered adhesive properties of tumor cells characteristic of the malignant phenotype . 
expression of the human nephron differentiation molecules in renal cell carcinomas . the authors tested frozen sections from 28 renal cell carcinomas ( rcc ) -- 21 clear , 1 eosinophilic , 4 basophilic , and 2 spindle-shaped cell type -- with monoclonal antibodies ( mab ) reacting against cytokeratin , vimentin , cd24 , calla/cd10 , villin , cd26 , and hla class i and class ii molecules . these molecules are markers of specific segments of the mature kidney , and their loss or acquisition reflects the different steps of human nephrogenesis . ki67 mab was used to evaluate cell-proliferating activity . all rcc cases expressed cytokeratin . coexpression of vimentin was observed in 21 of 28 cases . whether of clear or chromophilic type , all tumoral cells strongly expressed cd24 molecule , present on primitive blastema cells . all clear-type rccs expressed calla/cd10 and 60 % were also villin positive ; some were faintly positive for cd26 . calla , villin , and cd26 were not detected in basophilic cell type . hla class i molecules were variably expressed in almost all cases , but hla class ii were never detected on tumoral cells . except for the spindle-shaped population , cell-proliferating activity was low . these results favor the hypothesis that rccs derive from cells that have ' recovered ' the different options of metanephric differentiation . clear cells show evidence of maturation toward proximal type , while basophilic cells do not . it would be of interest to evaluate the usefulness of serum measurements of villin and/or calla as markers in clear cell-type rcc . 
initial failure of surgical exploration in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . to determine the causes of failures of cervical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism , we reviewed 892 patients operated on by one surgeon from 1953 to 1990 . twenty-seven patients ( 3 % ) remained hypercalcemic or developed hypercalcemia within 6 months of surgery . of these , five patients had one adenoma removed initially ; at reoperation , three patients had a second adenoma that was successfully removed , whereas the other two patients had hyperplasia and required subtotal parathyroidectomies . no enlarged parathyroid glands were identified in 22 patients . eventually , six patients became normocalcemic spontaneously , seven patients underwent re-exploration with a successful outcome in all but one case , two patients had ectopic hyperparathyroidism associated with carcinoma elsewhere , and seven patients refused reoperation and remain hypercalcemic . the failure rate of surgical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism can be reduced by systematically exploring all four parathyroid glands . all abnormal parathyroids should be removed with histologic verification . when no abnormal glands are found , localization studies should be performed before re-exploration . 
lymph node metastasis from papillary-follicular thyroid carcinoma in young patients . a total of 117 patients under 20 years of age with papillary and/or follicular thyroid cancer presented to the m. d. anderson cancer center between 1949 and 1987 . the most common presenting symptom was a cervical mass . twenty percent of the patients had a history of prior irradiation . sixty percent initially had palpable lymph nodes , while 26 % who had clinically negative examinations had pathologically positive lymph nodes . recurrence was highest in regional lymph nodes at 24 % , with only a 4 % recurrence rate at the primary site and a 3 % recurrence rate at distant sites . there were no deaths due to the thyroid cancer . to maintain a low rate of recurrence , near-total thyroidectomy with neck dissection followed by iodine 131 treatment should be considered in these young patients . 
survival discriminants for differentiated thyroid cancer . since 1975 , the american cancer society , illinois division , has published end results of major cancer sites drawn from patient data contributed voluntarily by hospital cancer registries throughout the state . the current study was undertaken , in part , to apprehend information regarding contested areas in the management of patients having differentiated ( papillary/follicular ) thyroid cancer . a total of 2,282 patients with either papillary or follicular carcinoma of the thyroid from 76 different illinois hospitals and providing 10 years of follow-up information ( life-table analysis ) were retrospectively analyzed for demographic , disease , and treatment-related predictors of survival . multivariate analysis using the cox proportional hazards method was made for stage , age , race , sex , morphology , history of radiation exposure , presence of positive lymph nodes , initial surgical treatment , postoperative iodine 131 therapy , and replacement/suppressive thyroid hormone treatment . statistically significant ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) predictors of favorable survival after thyroid cancer were low stage ( i and ii ) , young age ( less than 50 years ) , white race , female sex , and the administration , postoperatively , of either thyroid hormone or radioactive iodine . factors that had no influence on survival were lymph node status , choice of initial surgical treatment , and a history of prior irradiation . we suggest that where a prospective clinical trial is impracticable , a retrospective analysis of a large and detailed database , such as that available from cooperating hospital-based tumor registries , may yet provide useful insights to solutions of cancer management problems . 
long-term effects of radiotherapy in childhood and adolescence . the records of 50 selected pediatric patients who were treated and followed at m. d. anderson cancer center were reviewed to study the late effects of nonsurgical treatment of cancer in children . there were 26 girls and 24 boys ranging in age between 2 months and 16 years . patients with head and neck cancer received chemotherapy and radiotherapy for rhabdomyosarcoma ( n = 27 ) , retinoblastoma ( n = 8 ) , or nasopharynx cancer ( n = 2 ) . median follow-up was 13 years . the most severe side effects were noted in the fields of radiation and included hypoplasia of the jaw , orbit , or hemi-face with varying degrees of atrophy of the overlying soft tissues . a wide range of endocrine , dental , and psychologic abnormalities was also documented . since 1 in every 1,000 adults older than 20 years today is likely to be a survivor of childhood cancer , recommendations are made for this " new " class of patients whom the head and neck surgeon will be seeing in the future . 
complications of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap in head and neck reconstruction . a retrospective review of the complications in 211 patients undergoing pectoralis major myocutaneous flap reconstruction is presented . the flap was used for mucosal lining of the oral cavity or oropharynx in 109 patients , for pharyngoesophageal reconstruction in 44 , for skin coverage in 47 , and for other locations in 14 patients . flap-related complications developed in 63 % of the patients . these included flap necrosis , suture line dehiscence , fistula formation , infection , and hematoma . analysis of risk factors for the development of flap complications showed the following factors to be significant : age over 70 ; female gender ; nomographic overweight ; albumin less than 4 g/dl ; use of the flap in reconstruction of the oral cavity after major glossectomy ; and presence of other systemic diseases . the median length of hospitalization for those developing complications was 33 days compared with 16 days for those who did not develop any complications . thirty-five ( 26 % ) of the 135 patients developing complications required reoperation and only 2 among these required a second flap . similarly , only 13 of the 61 patients who developed fistulas required surgical closure . 
soft tissue sarcomas of the head and neck in adults . we reviewed the clinical records and pathologic material of 176 adults with primary soft tissue sarcomas treated at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center between 1950 and 1985 . seventy-two patients ( 41 % ) had low-grade sarcomas and 104 ( 59 % ) had high-grade sarcomas . all but 18 patients underwent some form of excision as initial therapy . adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy combined with surgical excision showed no significant effect . a significantly increased risk of treatment failure was associated with large tumor size , positive surgical margins , bone involvement , local recurrence , metastatic spread , and high histologic grade . except for recurrence , the p value by univariate analysis in the log-rank test for comparison of survival according to these clinical and pathologic characteristics was p less than 0.0001 . although the overall survival was 75 % at 2 years , 55 % at 5 years , and 46 % at 10 years , only 20 % of the patients with high-grade sarcomas were alive 10 years after treatment . most patients with rhabdomyosarcoma , high-grade peripheral nerve tumor , and high-grade fibrous histiocytoma and all patients with high-grade angiosarcoma died of disease less than 5 years after diagnosis . new therapeutic strategies are needed to improve the survival of adult patients with high-grade soft tissue sarcomas of the head and neck . 
multimodality preoperative treatment for advanced stage iv ( mo ) cancer of the head and neck . sixty-three patients with advanced unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were treated with a combination of chemotherapy , radiation , and surgery . we observed a 75 % response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy . the 5-year survival rate for all 63 patients was 20 % , and only 3 patients were alive at 8 years . the 5-year survival rate for patients who completed the treatment plan and received chemotherapy , radiation , and surgery was 43 % compared with 20 % for those who had chemotherapy and radiation but refused surgery . development of a second primary cancer was the cause of death in 62 % of the patients who survived more than 24 months . 
definitive mandibular replacement using reconstruction plates . mandibular defects following radical cancer surgery continue to provide challenges to head and neck surgeons . twenty-seven patients with advanced oral cancer underwent primary mandibular replacement with metal reconstruction plates without the use of bone . twenty-one patients ( 78 % ) had successful reconstruction with primary soft tissue healing . six patients required removal of the plate in the postoperative period . two of these patients had their reconstruction plates replaced as a secondary procedure following soft tissue healing . thus , 23 of 27 patients ( 85 % ) had final mandibular reconstruction and were followed for an average of 19 months . functional and cosmetic results were satisfactory . for patients with advanced disease , this technique compares favorably with microvascular transfer in terms of operating time and donor defect . despite problems with plate exposure , the initial and overall success rates of 78 % and 85 % , respectively , make the use of these plates a reasonable choice for immediate reconstructive needs in patients with difficult tumors . 
mandibular reconstruction with composite microvascular tissue transfer . microvascular free tissue transfer has provided a variety of methods of restoring vascularized bone and soft tissue to difficult defects created by tumor resection and trauma . over 7 years , 26 patients have undergone 28 free flaps for mandibular reconstruction , 15 for primary squamous cell carcinoma of the floor of the mouth or tongue , 7 for recurrent tumor , and 6 for other reasons [ lymphangioma ( 1 ) , infection ( 1 ) , gunshot wound ( 1 ) , and osteoradionecrosis ( 3 ) ] . primary reconstruction was performed in 19 cases and secondary in 9 . all repairs were composite flaps including 12 scapula , 5 radial forearm , 3 fibula , 2 serratus , and 6 deep circumflex iliac artery . mandibular defects included the symphysis alone ( 7 ) , symphysis and body ( 5 ) , symphysis-body-ramus condyle ( 2 ) , body or ramus ( 13 ) , and bilateral body ( 1 ) . fourteen patients had received prior radiotherapy to adjuvant or curative doses . eight received postoperative radiotherapy . all patients had initially successful vascularized reconstruction by clinical examination ( 28 ) and positive radionuclide scan ( 22 of 22 ) . bony stability was achieved in 25 of 26 patients and oral continence in 24 of 26 . one complete flap loss occurred at 14 days . complications of some degree developed in 22 patients including partial skin necrosis ( 3 ) , orocutaneous fistula ( 3 ) , plate exposure ( 1 ) , donor site infection ( 3 ) , fracture of reconstruction ( 1 ) , and fracture of the radius ( 1 ) . microvascular transfer of bone and soft tissue allows a reliable reconstruction -- despite previous radiotherapy , infection , foreign body , or surgery -- in almost every situation in which mandible and soft tissue are absent . bony union , a healed wound , and reasonable function and appearance are likely despite early fistula , skin loss , or metal plate or bone exposure . 
reconstruction of mandibular defects in irradiated patients . in this prospective study , mandibular reconstruction using titanium plates was evaluated in 31 patients treated between july 1988 and january 1990 . sixteen patients had prior surgery ; 13 had prior radiotherapy . in 11 patients , prior radiation and surgery had failed . sixteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy either in standard or accelerated fractions . twelve patients had complications of either intraoral ( 8 ) , extraoral ( 5 ) , or combined ( 1 ) plate exposure or fistula formation ( 2 ) . factors significantly related to complications were poor nutrition , accelerated radiation , and recurrence . sixty-one percent of all patients healed uneventfully . when patients with complications secondary to recurrence who subsequently died were excluded , the success rate was 73 % . only one patient had an unacceptable result that produced a cosmetic and functional deformity despite secondary repair . 
sequential connection of flaps : a logical approach to customized mandibular reconstruction . microsurgery has improved the success rate for reconstruction of composite defects in the head and neck . restoration of mandibular continuity alone is not adequate for reconstruction . replacement of the oral lining with thin tissue is necessary to improve tongue mobility and to set the stage for later dental restoration . there is currently no ideal osteocutaneous free flap that provides unlimited length of bone , can undergo multiple osteotomies to produce the proper curve to the reconstructed mandible , and provides thin skin for oral lining . combining free flaps can take advantage of the strengths of the individual donor sites and eliminate some of the problems with current osteocutaneous flaps . in six patients , a fibular osseous free flap was combined with either a radial forearm flap or a lateral arm flap to provide bone and oral lining in reconstruction of mandibular composite defects . in these selected patients , the fibula provided the blood supply for the second free flap , which was placed sequentially . the distal peroneal vessels were used to anastomose to the radial forearm vessels or the lateral arm pedicle . this approach allows the surgeon to customize the defect by improving both the functional and aesthetic aspects of reconstruction and is of use in cases where vascular access is limited , such as following head and neck surgery and radiation . 
patterns of cervical lymph node metastasis from squamous carcinomas of the upper aerodigestive tract . a consecutive series of 1,081 previously untreated patients undergoing 1,119 radical neck dissections ( rnds ) for squamous carcinoma of the head and neck was reviewed to study the patterns of nodal metastases . primary tumors were located in the oral cavity in 501 patients , in the oropharynx in 207 patients , in the hypopharynx in 126 patients , and in the larynx in 247 patients . lymph node metastases were confirmed histologically in 82 % of 776 therapeutic neck dissections , and micrometastases were discovered in 33 % of 343 elective rnds . lymph node groups in the neck were described by levels ( i to v ) . predominance of certain levels was seen for each primary site . levels i , ii , and iii were at highest risk for metastasis from cancer of the oral cavity , and levels ii , iii , and iv were at highest risk for metastasis from carcinomas of the oropharynx , hypopharynx , and larynx . supramohyoid neck dissection ( clearing levels i , ii , and iii ) for no patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity and anterolateral neck dissection ( clearing levels ii , iii , and iv ) for no patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oropharynx , hypopharynx , and larynx are recommended . 
significance of positive margins in oral cavity squamous carcinoma . three hundred ninety-eight consecutive , previously untreated patients undergoing surgery for epidermoid carcinoma of the oral cavity from 1979 to 1983 were reviewed . one hundred twenty-nine patients were classified as having positive surgical margins . of these , 83 patients had tumor within 0.5 mm of the surgical margin , 9 had premalignant changes at the margin , 9 had in situ carcinoma at the margin , and 28 had invasive cancer at the margin . the remaining 269 patients had uninvolved margins . the significance of positive margins relating to survival , subsequent clinical course , local recurrence , and patterns of treatment failure was examined , along with the impact of adjuvant postoperative radiotherapy on positive margins . the percentage of patients having positive margins progressively increased with increasing t stage : 21 % in t1 versus 55 % in t4 primary cancer . the overall 5-year survival for patients with negative margins was 60 % . for patients with positive margins , 5-year survival was 52 % . this difference was statistically significant . the incidence of local recurrence in patients having positive surgical margins was twice as much as in those with negative margins ( 36 % versus 18 % ) . metastasis rates in the neck and at distant sites were not significantly influenced by the status of the surgical margin . of the 129 patients with positive margins , 49 received postoperative radiotherapy . in those patients so treated , a trend toward lower recurrence rates was noted . differences were not statistically significant . this retrospective review confirms the importance of adequate resection of the primary tumor as well as the relative ineffectiveness of adjuvant postoperative radiotherapy in the improvement of local control in patients with positive surgical margins . 
treatment selection for carcinoma of the base of the tongue . between 1974 and 1984 , 173 patients were treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue base . fifty-four patients had t1 or t2 primaries , while 115 patients had t3 or t4 tumors ( 4 were not staged ) . lymph node metastasis was present in 120 patients . early primary tumors treated with surgery or radiotherapy had a control rate of 83 % ( 5 of 6 tumors ) and 89 % ( 40 of 45 tumors ) , respectively . for advanced primary tumors , definitive radiotherapy produced a local control rate of 55 % ( 42 of 76 tumors ) , compared with 79 % ( 23 of 29 tumors ) for surgery and postoperative radiotherapy . if primary control was obtained , the regional failure rate was less than 10 % . tumor growth patterns were predictive of the response to radiotherapy . the primary control rate at 2 years for 21 patients with exophytic tumors was 84 % as opposed to 58 % for 62 patients with ulcerative-infiltrative tumors ( p = 0.04 ) . radiotherapy is effective for early stage or exophytic tumors , whereas for advanced or deeply invasive tumors combined therapy enhances local control . 
squamous carcinoma of the posterior pharyngeal wall . we have reviewed a 12-year experience with 295 patients treated for squamous carcinoma of the pharynx in order to focus on 78 patients whose lesions arose in the posterior wall . surgery was the definitive therapy for the primary tumor in 57 ( 73 % ) , including 3 treatment groups . thirty-two patients had limited resections that preserved the larynx , involving local excision ( 7 patients ) , anterior pharyngotomy ( 7 patients ) , lateral pharyngotomy ( 6 patients ) , median labiomandibular glossotomy ( 6 patients ) , or median mandibulotomy with paralingual extension ( 6 patients ) . the second group consisted of 21 patients with more extensive tumors who required a laryngectomy and complex reconstruction , often with postoperative radiotherapy . finally , there were four patients who developed metachronous second primaries in the pharynx subsequent to a laryngectomy . all required flap reconstruction . of the 21 patients whose primary treatment was radiotherapy , 5 had lesions that were implanted after access was provided by a mandibulotomy . cumulative 5-year survival was 32 % and ranged from 44 % in those with favorable lesions to 15 % in those with extensive tumors . our experience highlights the variety of treatment approaches available in patients with pharyngeal carcinomas confined to the posterior wall . surgery in this setting carries acceptable morbidity and yields survival rates that compare favorably with those achieved by external radiation therapy alone . results in patients with extensive lesions still leave much to be desired , despite radical surgery and aggressive radiotherapy . innovative brachytherapy techniques using surgery for access deserve further investigation . 
flow cytometric evaluation of chemosensitive and chemoresistant head and neck tumors . for patients with head and neck squamous carcinoma , a clinical response to induction chemotherapy has correlated with a survival advantage . similarly , patients with diploid tumors have displayed a survival advantage when compared with patients with aneuploid tumors . this study examined dna content in 33 patients who had undergone induction chemotherapy as part of two clinical protocols to determine if there was a correlation between the patients with diploid tumors and the patients with a clinical response to chemotherapy . although patients with stage iii tumors had a longer disease-free survival than stage iv patients ( p less than 0.0002 ) , the addition of dna content information did not improve the ability to predict response . specifically , there was no correlation between dna content and the response to chemotherapy . in addition , for this group of patients , a diploid dna content was not correlated with a survival advantage . we conclude that dna content information did not add significantly to the prediction of clinical outcome in these patients who received induction chemotherapy . 
lateral temporal bone resections . eighteen consecutive patients underwent a lateral temporal bone resection for the treatment of tumors originating in the auricle , the external auditory canal , the periauricular skin , or the parotid and were retrospectively analyzed . the different lateral temporal bone resections performed have been categorized into four types . the type i resection consists of the removal of the tympanic bone and the external auditory canal lateral to the tympanic membrane . the type ii resection consists of the removal of the entire tympanic bone , the tympanic membrane , the incus , and the malleus , preserving the facial nerve and the inner ear . type iii resections remove , in addition to the those structures removed in type ii resections , the distal facial nerve and fallopian canal , the mastoid tip , the styloid process , and the stylomastoid foramen . the type iv resection consists of the removal of only the mastoid tip and the inferior portion of the tympanic bone . when the techniques of lateral temporal bone resection are used appropriately , adequate surgical treatment of patients with selected advanced and recurrent malignant tumors of the external ear , the periauricular skin , and the parotid is possible with low morbidity and a high probability of local regional control . 
serologic determinants of survival in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . specific circulating serum proteins may reflect unique properties governing the growth and progression of head and neck cancers . one hundred three previously untreated patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were prospectively evaluated for serum iga , igg , and igm and c1q-binding macromolecules . immunoglobulins were assessed by the immunoturbidimetric technique . c1q-binding macromolecules ( c1qbm ) were measured utilizing the iodine-125 assay of zubler et al ( j immunol 1976 ; 116 : 232-5 ) . neither the level of serum immunoglobulins nor c1qbm values were correlated with the primary site , ajc ( american joint committee on cancer ) stage of disease , or size of primary lesion . likewise , comparison of serum iga with c1qbm values demonstrated that these laboratory parameters were independent variables ( r = 0.15 by pearson linear regression ) . univariate statistical analysis , utilizing the cox proportional hazard model , showed serum iga and c1qbm values to each contribute significantly to the ability to predict survival in patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck ( p = 0.01 and 0.003 , respectively ) . furthermore , multivariate analysis reveals that both c1qbm and serum iga levels contribute significantly to the hazards model beyond staging in predicting survival ( p less than 0.001 ) . predictive results were most apparent in patients with stage iv disease and related to the probability of both regional and distant metastatic recurrences . conversely , serologic analysis provided no information in patients who were staged early . these results support pretreatment multiparametric serologic analysis of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . 
efficacy of radical neck dissection for the control of cervical metastasis after radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . fifty-one patients who had persistent or recurrent neck disease from nasopharyngeal carcinoma after radiotherapy underwent radical neck dissection . the follow-up period ranged from 0.5 to 9 years ( median : 2 years ) . multiple cervical lymph node involvement was present in 51 % of the patients ( 26 of 51 ) . malignant cells were detected in 88 % of the resected specimens ( 45 of 51 ) . the clinical sign of fixation of lymph node is the only factor that affects the successful control of neck disease ( p = 0.04 ) . extracapsular extension of the nodal disease was present , and 35 % of the lymph nodes were adherent to surrounding structures at operation ( 18 of 51 ) . there was one hospital mortality and the overall morbidity was minimal . the actuarial survival at 5 years was 38 % , and the probability of control of neck disease was 66 % . radical neck dissection is effective in controlling post-irradiation cervical metastasis from nasopharyngeal carcinoma . 
cervical lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor in 190 patients . over 10 years , 475 patients with isolated lateral neck masses were evaluated : 190 with lymph nodes from an unknown primary tumor ( lnup ) , 188 with neck lymphomas , 78 with benign tumors , 10 with sarcomas , and 9 with chemodectomas . this study focused on the patients with lnup . only 86 patients were treated with surgery ( plus radiotherapy ) . other patients were treated with radiotherapy ( 84 ) or chemotherapy ( 13 ) or had no treatment ( 7 ) . for the overall population , failures in the neck occurred in 51 % of the patients and distant metastases in 27 % , while primary tumors appeared in 16 % . survival rates at 3 , 5 , and 10 years were 27 % , 19 % , and 7 % , respectively , for the overall population and 45 % , 35 % , and 19 % , respectively , for the surgical group . the diagnosis and therapeutic approach had a direct effect on neck control ; failure in the neck occurred in 7 of 47 patients ( 15 % ) when fine needle aspiration and radical neck dissection with radiotherapy were performed , in 5 of 12 patients ( 42 % ) when fine needle aspiration and modified neck dissection with radiotherapy were used , in 5 of 12 patients ( 42 % ) when adenectomy diagnosis and radiotherapy treatment were performed , and in 6 of 11 patients ( 54 % ) when diagnosis by incisional biopsy was performed prior to admission , despite subsequent radical neck dissection and radiotherapy treatment . in our opinion , panendoscopy and fine needle aspiration should be the first-line diagnostic approach . when cytologic diagnosis proves impossible , the second-line approach must consist of cervical exploration with frozen section examination and excisional biopsy , followed by immediate appropriate treatment . in cases of lnup , radical neck dissection seems to be preferable . 
delayed reconstruction following mohs ' chemosurgery for skin cancers of the head and neck . the case records of 52 patients with 55 cutaneous neoplasms treated by mohs ' chemosurgery and subsequently reconstructed by plastic surgeons were reviewed to determine if delay between resection and reconstruction adversely affected the outcome of reconstruction . reconstruction was performed from 5 to 61 days after mohs ' chemosurgery for 45 basal cell carcinomas and 10 other cutaneous neoplasms . there were no complications during the interval between resection and reconstruction . following reconstruction , minor wound complications occurred in 6 % of patients ; there were no major complications . microscopic examination of the re-excised wound revealed residual disease in 2 of 45 cases of basal cell carcinoma and 0 of 10 other cutaneous malignancies . both patients with residual basal cell carcinomas ( i.e. , false-negative margins after mohs ' surgery ) had presented to the mohs ' surgeon with recurrent tumors . during a follow-up period of 3 months to 3 years after complete resection , recurrent tumor developed in 2 of 45 cases of basal cell carcinoma and 3 of 8 cases of squamous cell carcinoma . delayed reconstruction , usually 5 to 20 days after mohs ' chemosurgery , can be performed without significant morbidity . re-excision of the mohs ' chemosurgical wound for pathologic examination can detect residual disease and may be especially indicated for large recurrent wounds . 
parascapular free flaps for head and neck reconstruction . we report our experience with single-stage , primary reconstruction of the head and neck in 29 consecutive patients using parascapular free flaps . the commonest indications were for craniofacial defects ( 9 ) , oropharyngeal soft tissue defects ( 10 ) , and combined mandibular and soft tissue losses ( 4 ) . ablative surgery was performed for squamous carcinoma ( 22 ) , melanoma ( 2 ) , and malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( 2 ) . seven patients died of recurrent disease during a 3 1/2 year follow-up . seven patients are alive with recurrence . flap complications included total loss ( 2 ) due to unsalvageable microvascular thrombosis , wound breakdown with oropharyngeal fistula ( 2 ) , mandibular osteomyelitis ( 1 ) , trismus ( 2 ) , neck contracture ( 1 ) , and donor site wound dehiscence ( 1 ) . the overall success of this reconstruction was 93 % . primary wound healing was the general rule with lower morbidity than with other reconstructive techniques . the flap is thin , pliable , and conforms well to three-dimensional defects . the lateral border of the scapula can be incorporated on the same vascular pedicle for single-stage mandibular reconstruction . no muscle is sacrificed , and the posterior donor defect is an added advantage . the parascapular flap is our first choice for reconstruction of major defects in the head and neck . 
a hepatocellular carcinoma of massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain treated with cddp two-route chemotherapy -- a case report . massive arterioportal shunts without tumor vessels or tumor stain are sometimes encountered in advanced cases of liver cirrhosis . massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain that responded well to intensive chemotherapy with cis-diamminedichloroplatinum ii are reported . 
functional character and augmentation of lymphocytes in regional lymph nodes of patients with lung cancer . it appears that lymph node metastases are more frequent in lung cancer than in other cancers because of impaired defensive mechanisms in the regional lymph nodes . however , little is known about the immunologic function of regional lymph node lymphocytes ( rlnl ) in patients with lung cancer . we have studied the immunologic properties of rlnl in comparison with peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbl ) . we measured the natural killer ( nk ) cell activity of rlnl and pbl in patients with lung cancer and found that the nk activity was significantly more depressed in the rlnl than in the pbl . in contrast , interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) production was markedly higher in the rlnl than in the pbl . the cytotoxic effect of rlnl in nonmetastatic lymph nodes on target cells ( such as k562 cells ) or pc-3 and pc-10 cells ( nk-resistant , human lung cancer of adenocarcinoma and epidermoid carcinoma , respectively ) was significantly enhanced by in vitro incubation with recombinant il-2 ( ril-2 ) . furthermore , we clarified that both ril-2 and ok-432 , which is a biologic response modifier and il-2 inducer as well , augmented the cytotoxicity of rlnl and that these effector cells were lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells . the depletion of lymphocyte subsets by pretreatment with specific monoclonal antibody showed that the lak activity in rlnl was mediated by cd3 + and cd8 + cells , whereas the lymphocyte subsets contributing the lak activity in pbl were cd3 + and cd16 + cells . it was concluded that a majority of the effector cells in rlnl were lak cells of the cytotoxic t cell population . 
lung lobe torsion following lobectomy . three cases of postoperative pulmonary lobe torsion were reported . two of three showed hemorrhagic infarctions , and as a result underwent rethoracotomies and removal of the affected lobes . from these experiences , we consider that computed tomography ( ct ) and bronchofiberscopic examinations are useful for the diagnosis of advanced torsion . 
histopathologic study of otitis media in individuals with head and neck tumors . five temporal bones , each including the eustachian tube , were obtained from five adults with advanced malignant tumors of the head and neck . the specimens were from the side on which the tumor had occurred . otitis media had been detected clinically in two cases , and was detected histopathologically in the other three . we discuss the possibility that otitis media might have been caused by tumor invasion of the paratubal area , by postoperative inflammation in the nasopharynx , or by an inflammatory reaction of tubal structures to radiotherapy , or that these conditions may have coexisted . 
histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms : i. mucoepidermoid carcinomas . histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms has been done with various degrees of success and hence various degrees of acceptance among pathologists and otolaryngologists-head and neck surgeons . given their histopathologic diversity , three carcinomas -- mucoepidermoid , adenoid cystic , and acinic cell -- would seem to be suitable candidates for grading . in this , the first of a three-part series , the authors present a three-level grading scheme for mucoepidermoid carcinomas . it combines histocytologic and growth features of the carcinomas that independently or together , in other grading proposals , have shown prognostic value . 
human central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumor expressing nerve growth factor receptors : chp707m . a primitive neuroectodermal tumor ( pnet ) presented as a cerebral hemispheric mass in a 33-year-old man . bone marrow metastases were discovered 11 months later . a cell line ( chp707m ) was derived from these metastases . in culture , the cells showed features of neuronal differentiation , forming short neurites and synthesizing low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein . northern blotting showed the tumor cells express nerve growth factor ( ngf ) receptor messenger rna , and fluorescence-activated cell-sorting demonstrated ngf receptors on the cell surface . western blotting showed chp707m ngf receptors are truncated . the receptors are functional ; they bind iodine 125-labeled mouse ngf with an affinity of 1.6 x 10 ( -9 ) m , and short-term treatment with ngf induces expression by the tumor cells of the proto-oncogene , c-fos . although chp707m is the first central nervous system pnet cell line proven to express ngf receptors , immunohistological survey of tissue sections prepared from human central nervous system pnets showed that 13 of 35 contained ngf receptor-positive tumor cells . thus , more than one-third of such tumors might be responsive to the effects of ngf . 
a clinical triad to diagnose paraneoplastic retinopathy . two elderly men developed photosensitivity and light-induced glare , transient visual symptoms , and progressive visual loss several months before small cell carcinoma of the lung was discovered . both patients had impaired visual acuity and color vision , ring scotomas , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber . electroretinography demonstrated abnormal cone and rod-mediated responses . antiretinal antibodies were identified in their serum . their visual sensory function improved following therapy with immunosuppressive agents . the triad of photosensitivity , ring scotomatous visual field loss , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber should alert one to a paraneoplastic disorder affecting the retina . 
soluble interleukin-2 receptors in cerebrospinal fluid from individuals with various neurological disorders . soluble interleukin-2 ( il-2r ) levels in the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) were studied in infectious , inflammatory , degenerative , and neoplastic disorders to evaluate their usefulness as a marker for the presence of activated t cells , thus indicating an inflammatory process . csf from control subjects and patients with stationary , progressive , and treated multiple sclerosis ( ms ) ; aseptic meningitis ; lymphoid and nonlymphoid central nervous system ( cns ) tumors ; alzheimer 's disease , as well as serum from ms patients and control subjects were studied for levels of soluble il-2r . a significant increase in csf il-2r levels was observed in patients with ms , meningitis , and lymphoid cns tumors ; the ms group showed the highest values . csf from individuals with alzheimer 's disease and from patients with nonlymphoid tumors did not show significantly elevated values . serum il-2r levels were significantly higher in ms patients than in control subjects , but there was no significant correlation between individual serum and csf il-2r levels . this study suggests the presence of activated t-lymphocytes in the cns of patients with ms. 
bactericidal effect of doxycycline associated with lysosomotropic agents on coxiella burnetii in p388d1 cells . there is no consistently reliable treatment for endocarditis resulting from chronic coxiella burnetii infection , the causative agent of q fever . although certain antibiotics are recommended on the basis of their in vitro bactericidal activities , results of therapy with these antibiotics are often disappointing . to evaluate whether the currently recommended antibiotic susceptibility tests for c. burnetii give misleading results because of continued division of uninfected cells , thereby resulting in the dilution of infected cells and , hence , a false picture of antibiotic efficacy , we blocked cell division during antibiotic susceptibility testing with cycloheximide . using this new method , we found that the currently recommended antibiotics for the treatment of q fever , doxycycline , pefloxacin , and rifampin , did not reduce the ratio of infected to noninfected cells ( either l929 or p388d1 ) by 9 days postinfection . to test the hypothesis that this lack of antibacterial activity is due to antibiotic inactivation by the low ph of the phagolysosomes in which c. burnetii is found , we used alkalinizing lysosomotropic agents ( chloroquine or amantadine ) concurrently with doxycycline . this resulted in the sterilization of c. burnetii infection in p388d1 cells . this finding seems to confirm our suspicion that the acidic conditions of the phagolysosomes in which c. burnetii is located inhibit antibiotic activity . this inhibition can be reversed in vitro when lysosomotropic alkalinizing agents are used . 
histopathologic spectrum of clinically atypical melanocytic nevi . ii . studies of nonfamilial melanoma [ published erratum appears in arch dermatol 1990 dec ; 126 ( 12 ) :1616 ] we studied the clinically most atypical pigmented lesion removed from each of 142 patients with newly diagnosed sporadic melanoma . the specimens were categorized as to the type of nevus , ie , junctional or compound , presence of congenital features , and degree of nuclear atypicality -- presence of nuclear enlargement , nuclear pleomorphism , hyperchromatism , and prominent nucleoli -- of intraepidermal nevomelanocytes . the frequency of nuclear abnormality was graded as 1 ( rare cells ) , 2 ( 10 % to 50 % of cells ) , or 3 ( greater than 50 % of cells ) for each nuclear parameter . among all lesions , 42 ( 29.6 % ) were junctional nevi , 74 ( 52.1 % ) were compound nevi , and 14 ( 9.9 % ) were dermal nevi . eighteen percent of the total were either dysplastic nevi ( 23 cases ) or malignant melanoma in situ ( three cases ) . fourteen nevi ( 9.9 % ) had congenital features . there were 12 junctional and 39 compound nevi and one dermal nevus that exhibited nuclear abnormality , but only four junctional nevi compared with 19 compound nevi had sufficient atypia for a designation of dysplastic nevus . only two nevi with congenital features demonstrated any nuclear abnormality , and these were clearly nondysplastic . thus , among nevi surgically removed as the clinically most atypical lesion in this study , compound nevi were much more likely to demonstrate nuclear atypia ( and dysplasia ) than were other nevi , ie , junctional or dermal nevi , or nevi with congenital features . 
compound blue nevus : a variant of blue nevus with an additional junctional dendritic component . a clinical , histopathologic , and immunohistochemical study of six cases . we studied six cases of heavily pigmented melanocytic lesions with features of blue nevi within the dermis , but with an additional junctional dendritic component . this compound variant of blue nevus is an uncommon lesion that has not been previously identified as a distinct histologic entity . immunoperoxidase staining for s100 protein and counterstaining with azure b distinguished the presence of melanocytes among numerous melanophages within the dermis . the compound variant of blue nevus can be distinguished histologically from combined blue nevus , pigmented spindle cell nevus , malignant melanoma , and melanosis due to a regressed malignant melanoma . the six lesions were from three men and three women whose ages ranged from 11 to 51 years ( mean , 31 years ) . three lesions were located on the trunk , two on the extremities , and one on the head . after a mean follow-up period of 47 months ( range , 38 to 58 months ) , there was no evidence of recurrence . 
magnetic resonance imaging in neurological disorders . to investigate the role of magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in neurological disorders , 115 children were studied in two groups . group a ( 78 patients ) was studied by paired computed tomography and mri cranial scans . group b ( 37 patients ) was studied by paired computed tomography assisted myelography ( ctm ) and mri spinal scans . in group a , the scans were generally equivalent for supratentorial tumours and for investigating fits , hydrocephalus , benign intracranial hypertension , and cerebral atrophies , but mri scanning was superior for posterior fossa tumours and cysts . in group b , mri scans were superior for intramedullary spinal tumours , spinal dysraphic problems with tethering or syrinx , and were complementary to ctm in diastematomyelia . 
long-term course of patients with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after apparent curative primary surgery for medullary thyroid carcinoma . thirty-one patients with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after seemingly adequate primary operation for medullary thyroid carcinoma ( mtc ) were followed for a mean period of 11.9 years after operation . ten patients had sporadic mtc and the remaining patients were members of families with multiple endocrine neoplasia ( men ) -- either men 2a ( 15 patients ) or men 2b ( six patients ) . overall 5 - and 10-year survival rates were 90 % and 86 % , respectively . only four patients died at the completion of the study : two of mtc and two of unrelated causes . eleven patients ( 35.5 % ) underwent surgical re-exploration after demonstration of recurrent disease clinically or radiologically . in no patient did the calcitonin level return to normal after re-exploration . the presence of more than three metastatic nodes at the time of initial operation was a statistically significant ( p = 0.003 ) predictor for disease recurrence . factors approaching statistical significance were patients younger than age 35 ( p = 0.06 ) and the percentage of cells in the s phase of cell division ( 0.07 ) . this data supports a conservative surgical philosophy in the management of the patient with persistent hypercalcitoninemia after resection of mtc . 
cystic tumors of the pancreas . new clinical , radiologic , and pathologic observations in 67 patients . within a 12-year period we treated 67 patients ( 49 women , 18 men ; mean age , 61 years ) with cystic neoplasms of the pancreas , including 18 serous cystic adenomas , 15 benign mucinous cystic neoplasms , 27 mucinous cystadenocarcinomas , 3 papillary cystic tumors , 2 cystic islet cell tumors , and 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia . mean tumor size was 6 cm ( 2 to 16 cm ) . in 39 % the patients had no symptoms , and in 37 % the lesions had been misdiagnosed as a pseudocyst . computed tomography was useful for detection , for distinguishing the microcystic subgroup of serous cystadenoma , and for showing rim calcification ( all 7 cases were malignant ) but was not reliable for distinguishing neoplasm from pseudocyst , serous from mucinous tumors , or benign from malignant . arteriography showed hypervascularity in 4 of 10 serous adenomas , 3 of 11 mucinous carcinomas , and 1 of 1 papillary cystic tumors . endoscopic pancreatography showed no communication with the cyst cavity in 37 of 37 cases of cystic neoplasms but opacified the ectatic ducts in 2 of 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia . stenosis or obstruction of the pancreatic duct indicated cancer . the tumor was resected by distal pancreatectomy in 25 patients , by proximal resection in 29 , and by total pancreatectomy in one , with no operative deaths . forty-four per cent of the tumors were malignant . in 10 cases the tumor was unresectable because of local extension or distant metastases , and those patients died at a mean of 4 months . seventy-five per cent of those resected for cure are alive without evident recurrence . because the epithelial lining of the tumor was partially ( 5 % to 98 % ) absent in 40 % to 72 % of cases of the major tumor types , and the mucinous component comprised only about 65 % of mucinous cystadenoma lining , misdiagnoses on frozen and even permanent sections were made . mitoses and histologic solid growth correlated with malignancy . neuroendocrine elements were seen in 87 % of benign and 47 % of malignant mucinous tumors . it is recommended that the terms macrocystic and microcystic be abandoned in favor of the histologic designations serous and mucinous . incomplete examination of the cyst wall can be misleading , however . it is suggested that mucinous ductal ectasia be recognized separately from cystic tumors and that all of these lesions be resected , with the possible exception of asymptomatic confirmed serous cystadenomas . 
experience with cardiopulmonary bypass and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest in the management of retroperitoneal tumors with large vena caval thrombi . from june 1984 to september 1989 , 43 patients with large vena caval tumor thrombi from retroperitoneal malignancies underwent surgical treatment with cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest ( dhca ) . the primary malignancies were renal cell carcinoma ( rcc ) ( n = 39 ) , renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma ( n = 1 ) , adrenal pheochromocytoma ( n = 1 ) , and renal ( n = 1 ) or retroperitoneal ( n = 1 ) sarcoma . the level of the caval thrombus was either suprahepatic ( n = 27 ) , intrahepatic ( n = 14 ) , or subhepatic ( n = 2 ) . in all cases the primary tumor and caval thrombus were completely removed . concomitant procedures included coronary artery bypass grafting ( n = 5 ) , pulmonary resection ( n = 2 ) , and hepatic lobectomy ( n = 1 ) . the time of circulatory arrest ranged from 10 to 44 minutes ( mean , 23.5 minutes ) . there were two operative deaths ( 4.7 % ) , neither of them due to to the use of dhca . major postoperative complications occurred in 13 patients ( 30.2 % ) . there were no ischemic or neurologic complications and no cases of perioperative tumor embolization . the median postoperative hospital stay was 9 days . twenty-two patients ( 51 % ) are alive and enjoying a good quality of life . the 3-year patient survival rates in patients with localized ( n = 24 ) versus metastatic ( n = 15 ) rcc are 63.9 % and 10.9 % , respectively ( p = 0.02 ) . we conclude that cpb with dhca facilities excision of retroperitoneal malignancies with large caval thrombi and provides the potential for cure with low morbidity and mortality rates . 
surgical therapy in barrett 's esophagus . seventy-six patients with barrett 's esophagus were cared for during a 10-year period . fifty-six patients ( 74 % ) presented with complications of the disease . there were 20 strictures , 7 giant ulcers , 11 cases of dysplasia , and 29 patients with carcinoma . in patients with benign disease , 93 % had mechanically defective sphincters and 83 % had peristaltic failure of the lower esophageal body . esophageal ph monitoring showed excessive esophageal exposure to ph less than 4 in 93 % and excessive exposure to ph more than 7 in 34 % of the patients tested . ninety-three per cent of patients with excessive alkaline exposure had complications , compared to only 44 % with normal alkaline exposure ( p less than 0.01 ) . gastric ph monitoring , serum gastrin levels , and gastric acid analysis supported a duodenal source for the alkaline exposure . antireflux surgery was performed using nissen fundoplication in 30 , belsey partial fundoplication in 3 , and collis-belsey gastroplasty in 2 . six required resection with colon interposition . good symptomatic control was achieved in 77 % after antireflux surgery . four patients had symptoms and signs of duodenogastric reflux ; three required a bile diversion procedure . fifteen patients had an en bloc curative resection with colon interposition . one patient with high-grade dysplasia on biopsy was found to have intramucosal carcinoma after simple esophagectomy . five tumors were intramucosal , seven were intramural , and four were transmural . lymph node involvement occurred only in the latter two . actuarial survival 5 years after curative resection was 53 % . median survival time for patients after palliative resection or no resection was 12 months . study of en bloc specimens indicated that extent of resection should be adapted to extent of disease : esophagectomy for intramucosal disease , en bloc esophagectomy with splenic preservation for intramural and transmural disease . serum cea was useful in detecting recurrent disease after surgery when the primary tumor stained positively for cea . 
analysis of prognostic factors and clinicopathological staging of thymoma the prognostic value of four clinical variables ( age and sex of patients , association with myasthenia gravis , and clinical stage ) and histological type was analyzed in 83 consecutive patients with thymoma , histologically classified as cortical , medullary , and mixed . age , sex , and association with myasthenia gravis did not prove to represent significant prognostic factors ; clinical stage and histological type , on the contrary , had a highly significant prognostic value ( p less than 0.001 ) . a model of clinicopathological staging , based on both clinical stage and histological type , in which three major prognostic groups are considered is proposed . the degree of significance of this model is higher ( p less than 0.0001 ) than that of clinical stage and histological type considered individually ; its validity is further supported by the results of multivariate analysis according to the cox regression model ( p = 0.0001 ) . we think it represents a prognostically valuable approach to the problem of management of thymoma . 
surgical treatment of cardiac myxomas : long-term results . between 1965 and 1988 , 22 patients underwent 24 operations for cardiac myxomas . two patients had the complex myxoma syndrome . mitral valve replacement was required at initial operation in 2 patients . one patient died perioperatively , and 5 others died subsequently . the 16 surviving patients recently underwent evaluation at a mean duration of 9 years after operation . ten are asymptomatic and 6 have new york heart association class ii symptoms . nine patients continue to be employed . eleven are in sinus rhythm , 3 have permanent pacemakers , and 2 have chronic atrial arrhythmias . echocardiography showed atrioventricular valve insufficiency in 3 patients and reduced contractility in 4 , but no new tumor recurrences . the long-term prognosis of this relatively large group of patients with cardiac myxomas has been good . patients without the complex myxoma syndrome had no recurrence , whereas 2 patients did require reoperation for mitral valve replacement . long-term disability and chronic arrhythmias have been infrequent , and functional status and employability of these patients have been very good . 
diagnostic imaging and surgical treatment of dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum . we describe the diagnostic procedures and surgical approaches employed in 5 patients with dumbbell tumors of the mediastinum . magnetic resonance imaging accurately described the existence and longitudinal extension of the intraspinal component of the tumor and assisted in choosing the appropriate surgical approach . both the intrathoracic and intraspinal components of the tumor were resected at one time by a thoracic and neurosurgical team . we employed the grillo technique three times and a separate laminectomy and thoracotomy approach . magnetic resonance imaging proved the most useful diagnostic technique for suspected dumbbell mediastinal tumors . in our experience , the extended thoracotomy proposed by grillo and co-workers worked well for small tumors involving only one foramen in which the intraspinal extension was limited to 2 to 3 cm , and when no more than two laminectomies were required . on the other hand , thoracotomy and a longitudinal paravertebral incision are preferable for larger tumors ( more than 4 cm ) involving more than one foramen in which the intraspinal extension exceeds 2 to 3 cm , for tumors requiring multiple laminectomy , and when bony infiltration is present . 
coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma . thymic carcinoid tumors are unusual neoplasms that are different from thymomas . we report a case of coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma associated with myasthenia gravis . the clinicopathological findings are discussed with a review of the literature . 
left superior vena cava : a pitfall in computed tomographic diagnosis with surgical implications . we report 2 cases in which computed tomography of the mediastinum demonstrated an abnormality originally misinterpreted as lymphadenopathy but subsequently shown to represent a left superior vena cava . misinterpretation may result in errors in optimum treatment and may complicate surgical exploration of the mediastinum . these 2 cases are presented to remind radiologists and surgeons of the possibility of this unusual anatomy . 
resection of the superior vena cava for primary lung cancer : 5 years ' survival . we describe a patient with squamous cell carcinoma of the right lung that required a resection of the superior vena cava combined with a tracheal sleeve pneumonectomy . the superior vena cava was totally replaced with a polytetrafluoroethylene graft with 115 minutes cross-clamping of the superior vena cava . the patient remains healthy and the polytetrafluoroethylene graft remains patent 5 years 4 months after operation . 
risk of gastric cancer after gastric surgery for benign disorders . the objective of this review was to evaluate published evidence for the association between gastric resection for benign disorders and subsequent cancer of the gastric remnant . we searched the literature through medline ( 1970 to 1988 ) and through the references of relevant articles . fifty-eight studies consisting of case series , uncontrolled surveys , and case control or cohort analyses were identified and critically assessed using defined methodological criteria . there were no consistent differences between the expected and observed number of cancers occurring within 15 years after gastric resection . however , all case control studies and seven of the eight cohort analyses , in which the prevalence of cancer was stratified by time since gastric resection , indicated a twofold to fourfold increase in the risk of gastric cancer in patients who survived 15 or more years after gastric surgery . we conclude that most studies of the association of gastric surgery with subsequent gastric cancer have relatively weak designs . still , the repetitive demonstration of this association by different investigators using different research designs supports the hypothesis that gastric resection increases the risk of cancer in the gastric remnant . 
morbidity , mortality , and quality of life for patients treated with levothyroxine in a population study of 1462 middle-aged women initiated in 1968 and 1969 we identified 29 women treated with levothyroxine from 1 to 28 years . in a 12-year follow-up in 1980 and 1981 we investigated the subjects for end-point myocardial infarction , diabetes mellitus , stroke , cancer , and death ( the status of 99.7 % of the initial participants was established ) . the women treated with levothyroxine showed no increase in morbidity or mortality . of the 24 women still receiving levothyroxine in 1980 and 1981 , 22 had serum thyrotropin and triiodothyronine concentrations with-in reference limits . these individuals were compared with the 968 women from the population study having no history of thyroid disease , and appeared identical as to laboratory and clinical data , with the exception of a slightly higher body mass , taller stature , and lower serum cholesterol concentration . the treated group did not differ in a life quality estimate based on 19 questions regarding life satisfaction and sensory function . we conclude that the levothyroxine-treated woman suffers no side effects from her life-long therapy . 
fast and effective treatment of malignant hypercalcemia . combination of suppositories of calcitonin and a single infusion of 3-amino 1-hydroxypropylidene-1-bisphosphonate . seventeen patients with malignant hypercalcemia were treated with a combination of a single dose of 3-amino 1-hydroxypropylidene-1-bisphosphonate ( apd [ also known as ahprbp or palmidronate disodium ] ) and salmon calcitonin given as suppositories for 3 days . to assess whether such a combined short treatment has a significant benefit leading to earlier normalization of the plasma calcium level than does apd alone , 17 additional patients matched for the type of tumor , initial plasma calcium level , urinary hydroxyproline level , and the dose of apd served as controls . all patients receiving the combination of calcitonin and apd achieved normalization of the plasma calcium level within 9 days , with a decrease from 3.22 + / - 0.90 mmol/l ( mean + / - sem ) to 2.29 + / - 0.03 mmol/l . in the group receiving apd alone , the plasma calcium level normalized in only 14 of 17 patients by day 9 . in the group receiving calcitonin and apd , the drop in the plasma calcium level occurred more rapidly , and the plasma calcium values were lower from days 2 to 4 . this advantage was explained by the calciuric effect of calcitonin , as reflected by a significant decrease in the notional setting of renal reabsorption of calcium , reaching 2.16 + / - 0.06 mmol/l compared with 2.34 + / - 0.06 mmol/l in the group receiving apd alone . there were no side effects of both treatments , in particular neither flushing nor nausea induced by the suppositories of calcitonin . clinical improvement occurred after 2 days in the group receiving the combined treatment . in conclusion , the combined treatment is rapidly effective and safe in the treatment of patients with hypercalcemia , particularly when the notional setting of renal tubular reabsorption of calcium is increased and a rapid correction of the plasma calcium level is needed . 
the technicon h6000 analyzer discriminates chronic lymphocytic leukemia from other b-cell leukemias through automatic assessment of large unstained cells . the separation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia of b-cell origin from other chronic b-cell leukemias is subjective , being largely based on the morphologic features of the lymphoid cells in the peripheral blood . the percentage of large unstained cells determined with a technicon h6000 analyzer ( an automated blood cell differential analyzer , technicon instruments corp , tarrytown , ny ) was used as a cell volume variable in an investigation of 70 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia of b-cell origin and of other chronic b-cell leukemias . the significant degree of correlation between the percentage of large unstained cells and morphoimmunophenotypic diagnosis , although obtained for a relatively small number of cases , suggests that this method of cell volume analysis can be used to improve diagnostic reproducibility in chronic b-cell leukemia . 
sensitivity and specificity of various morphological features of cervical condylomas . an in situ hybridization study . fifty-seven cervical biopsy specimens or endocervical curettings showing condyloma , changes suggestive of condyloma , or no changes of condyloma were analyzed for presence of nuclear atypia ( nuclear enlargement and irregularity in superficial epithelium ) , presence of multinucleated cells , and presence of perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing in superficial squamous epithelium . the findings were correlated with results of in situ hybridization with biotin-labeled human papillomavirus dna probes . moderate nuclear atypia was significantly more specific than perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing and 100 % sensitive for predicting cases positive for human papillomavirus . of the various morphological features analyzed , perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing had the lowest specificity for predicting positive results on in situ hybridization . 
study of preneoplastic changes of liver cells by immunohistochemical and molecular hybridization techniques . the status of hepatitis b virus dna was investigated by in situ hybridization in multifocal areas of a noncancerous hepatitis b virus-associated cirrhosis . this liver exhibited a marked degree of dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia . the results of these studies were correlated with the histopathology and immunohistochemical stains for hepatitis b core and surface antigens . there was clear evidence of a marked reduction to absence of hepatitis b viral dna by in situ hybridization and absence of hbc and hbsag in the foci of liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia . these results support the hypothesis that liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia are preneoplastic in nature . 
persistence of mucosal gastric carcinomas for 8 and 6 years in two patients . a small gastric carcinoma was detected in a man , but he refused surgery . eight years later , he was readmitted for a check-up , and a partial gastrectomy was performed . pathologic examination revealed a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma restricted within the mucosa . in another man , an irregularly shaped , grossly depressed lesion indicating a malignancy was present at the gastric angle , and 6 years later he agreed to a partial gastrectomy . the lesion proved to be a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma confined to the mucosa . retrospective examination of the original biopsy specimen revealed a small area of adenocarcinoma , presumably overlooked at the initial examination . thus , some gastric carcinomas of the well-differentiated type can grow at an extremely slow rate , without extensive spread or invasion . findings in these cases contribute to knowledge of the biological behavior of gastric carcinomas . 
solid and cystic ultimobranchial body remnants in the thyroid . in this study we determined the incidence rate ( 89 % ) and characterized the morphology of ultimobranchial body ( ubb ) remnants found in 18 serially sectioned neonatal thyroid glands . although ubb remnants are often referred to as solid cell nests , we found cystic features in 55 % . ciliated columnar cells were seen in 23 % . one contained a large pseudo-papilla . the ubb cells had nuclei with features reminiscent of papillary carcinoma nuclei in that they were enlarged , oval , and contained finely dispersed chromatin when compared with follicular cell nuclei . both papillary carcinomas and ubb remnants are common , occur as tiny , solid , or cystic thyroid entities in patients of all ages , may contain papillary structures , and share some common nuclear features . therefore , it is important to include ubb remnants in the differential diagnosis of minute thyroid entities and to recognize their morphologic features . 
mucinous cystadenoma of the lung . a report of two cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural analysis . we describe two patients who presented with solitary pulmonary masses that consisted of unilocular cysts lined by columnar mucinous epithelium . the cysts contained copious mucus . the epithelial lining of the cysts showed foci of stratification and papillary infolding . histologically identical lesions have previously been termed unusual mucous cysts or mucinous cystadenomas . we believe that these tumors are true neoplasms differentiating toward the respiratory epithelial mucous cell . they should be distinguished from a variety of pulmonary neoplasms including bronchoalveolar carcinoma , bronchial mucous gland adenoma , mucoepidermoid carcinoma , and metastatic adenocarcinoma . 
tumor of the atrioventricular nodal region . a clinical and immunohistochemical study . autopsy specimens of 17 tumors of the atrioventricular nodal region were studied . sudden death occurred in 14 children and adults ; seven of these patients had a history of atrioventricular block or syncope . three tumors were incidental findings in infants with other congenital anomalies ; diaphragmatic agenesis , pulmonary hypoplasia , and meckel 's diverticulum in one patient ; mitral atresia in one ; and congenital hydrocephalus , ventricular septal defect , patent ductus arteriosus , coarctation of the aorta , and patent omphalovitelline duct in the third . immunohistochemical stains demonstrated strong positivity for carcinoembryonic antigen in 13 of 13 cases , b72 .3 antigen in 5 of 7 cases , and cytokeratin in 11 of 11 cases . twenty control cases of mesothelioma and mesothelial hyperplasia were all negative for b72 .3 ; one showed focal carcinoembryonic antigen staining . ultrastructural analysis of one case demonstrated short rudimentary microvilli not characteristic of mesothelial cells . we conclude that so-called mesotheliomas of the atrioventricular nodal region are not of mesothelial origin , because of strong carcinoembryonic antigen positivity and occasional positivity with b72 .3 , as these antibodies react with glycoproteins found in endodermally derived tissue and generally not with mesothelial tissue . conduction system tumors are most likely congenital rests of endodermal origin , can be associated with other congenital anomalies , and often cause symptoms of heart block and sudden death . 
a signet-ring cell carcinoma of the ampulla of vater . we describe a variant of carcinoma of the ampulla of vater , which , to our knowledge , has not been previously described . classic signet-ring cells represented the predominant cell type , and were admixed with more poorly differentiated tumor cells that were chromogranin positive . these findings raise the possibility of an amphicrine tumor of the ampulla . 
pulmonary blastoma with malignant melanoma component . pulmonary blastomas are rare primary tumors that consist of tubular or glandular structures embedded in an undifferentiated mesenchymal stroma . focal cartilage , bone , and skeletal muscle as well as squamous differentiation have been described in these tumors . we report a unique case of a pulmonary blastoma showing a malignant melanoma component . immunohistochemical stains for s100 protein and hmb-45 were positive in the areas of melanocytic differentiation . 
neonatal intracranial choriocarcinoma . a 1-month-old infant died from extensive intracerebral hemorrhage due to a metastatic choriocarcinoma to the brain that presumably originated in the placenta . the clinical course was characterized by hyperbilirubinemia , repeated episodes of seizures , and intracranial hemorrhage . a computed tomographic scan revealed a large vascular mass in the left parieto-occipital region and a small lesion in the left frontal lobe . the placenta was expelled during the delivery and was not examined . in view of the high level of maternal human chorionic gonadotropic hormone and the autopsy finding of metastasis , we presumed that the mass was a metastatic choriocarcinoma that had originated in the maternal placenta . to our knowledge , only one previous instance of this phenomenon has been reported . 
is liver transplantation justified for the treatment of hepatic malignancies ? twenty-eight patients received orthotopic liver transplants for malignant disease between february 1 , 1984 , and december 31 , 1989 . preoperative diagnoses included hepatocellular carcinoma ( n = 16 ) , cholangiocarcinoma ( n = 3 ) , other primary hepatic tumors ( n = 6 ) , and metastatic diseases to the liver ( n = 3 ) . overall actuarial survivals at 6 months , 1 year , and 5 years were 67.3 % , 51 % , and 31 % , respectively . long-term survival longer than 5 years was achieved in 3 patients . the recurrence rate in patients surviving longer than 3 months is 48 % ( median , 7 months ) . hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma had the poorest survival and highest recurrence rates . specific prognostic factors correlating with survival or recurrence could not be elucidated . these results indicate that orthotopic liver transplants can provide long-term cure and palliation for malignant disease ; however , patient selection is extremely important in predicting outcome . 
the impact of microinvasion on axillary node metastases and survival in patients with intraductal breast cancer . a rational approach to the local treatment of intraductal breast cancer continues to generate considerable debate . however , the finding of an invasive component in intraductal breast cancer is widely regarded as an appropriate indication for axillary node dissection as part of the local treatment and staging of this disease . despite this view , the natural history of patients with intraductal breast cancer with foci of microinvasion is poorly defined . between 1965 and 1988 , 41 patients with this pathologic finding of intraductal carcinoma with foci of microinvasion were seen at the ucla medical center . twenty-three patients presented with mammographic abnormalities , while 17 patients presented with a palpable mass . one patient presented with paget 's disease of the nipple . thirty-three patients underwent axillary node dissection as part of their local treatment . no lymph node metastases were identified . the median follow-up in 37 patients was 47 months . there have been no local recurrences and no deaths from recurrent breast cancer . intraductal breast cancer associated with microinvasion appears to be an extremely favorable lesion with minimal risk of nodal metastases . 
immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy is as safe as mastectomy alone . we evaluated wound complications and potential risk factors after mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction and compared them with similar data after modified radical mastectomy . the incidences of infection , seroma , hematoma , and epidermolysis were compared among 395 patients ( 305 with modified radical mastectomies and 90 with mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction ) from virginia mason medical center , seattle , wash , between 1983 and 1989 . obesity , age ( 60 years or older ) , smoking , antibiotics , and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors . there were more wound complications in the modified radical mastectomy group ( 48 % vs 31 % ) , and specifically , more seromas ( 30 % vs 13 % ) . in the modified radical mastectomy group , age of 60 years or older was associated with seroma and infection , drainage greater than 30 ml per day ( at time of drain removal ) with seroma , and smoking with epidermolysis . in the mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction group , obesity was associated with seroma and epidermolysis . we conclude that mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction appears to be as safe as modified radical mastectomy alone with respect to wound complications . 
the operative management of coexisting thyroid and parathyroid disease . three hundred eight patients who underwent operation for hyperparathyroidism were studied . fifty-two ( 17 % ) were identified who had a concomitant thyroid nodule . all 52 underwent parathyroidectomy and thyroid resection in a single operation . eleven of these patients ( 21 % of those with a thyroid nodule ) had differentiated thyroid cancer . one patient with parathyroid hyperplasia developed permanent hypocalcemia . none had permanent vocal cord paralysis and none required tracheostomy . thorough visual inspection and palpation of the entire thyroid gland should be performed during operations for hyperparathyroidism . incidentally discovered thyroid nodules should prompt formal lobectomy with frozen section diagnosis ; unanticipated thyroid malignancies should then be treated as independent entities . treating simultaneous hyperparathyroidism and nodular thyroid disease with a single operation can be done safely ; it avoids the expense and risk associated with neck reexploration and can detect unsuspected cancers . 
the recalcitrant perineal wound after rectal extirpation . applications of muscle flap closure . perineal wounds developing after abdominoperineal resection result in chronic purulent drainage and intermittent episodes of sepsis and are generally unresponsive to conservative medical and surgical treatment . thirteen consecutive patients ( aged 27 to 74 years ; mean , 48 years ) who underwent debridement and immediate muscle flap closure of these wounds were analyzed to identify risk factors for delayed healing and to evaluate the effectiveness of muscle flap coverage . three risk factors were identified : preoperative or postoperative radiation therapy , resection for recurrent carcinoma , and inflammatory bowel disease . a total of 19 muscle flaps ( 11 gracilis , five gluteal thigh , two gluteus maximus , and one rectus abdominis ) were used to close these wounds . during an average 3.5-year follow-up , four ( 31 % ) minor complications and one ( 8 % ) recurrence were noted to occur . muscle flaps provide safe , effective , single-stage procedures for the closure of chronic perineal wounds . 
failure to detect human t-cell leukemia virus-related sequences in multiple sclerosis blood . we tested 11 patients with multiple sclerosis for the presence of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) - or type ii ( htlv-ii ) - related sequences . dna from blood mononuclear cells was analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction utilizing three different oligonucleotide primer pairs . two of these primer pairs detect sequences shared between htlv-i and htlv-ii in either p24 , gag protein , or in p21 , env transmembrane protein . the third primer pair was synthesized based on regions in the pol gene where amino acid sequences are conserved between htlv-i , htlv-ii , and the related bovine leukemia virus . the multiple sclerosis samples were consistently negative while appropriate control samples were positive . we conclude that viruses related to htlv-i , htlv-ii , or bovine leukemia virus are not present in the blood of patients with multiple sclerosis and , therefore , that htlv-bovine leukemia virus-related viruses are not likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis . 
metastatic carcinoma to the retina . clinicopathologic findings in two cases . two cases of metastatic carcinoma to the neuroretina are reported . one patient had an oat cell carcinoma of the lung that was metastatic to the brain and retina ; this was confirmed postmortem . the other patient had metastatic breast carcinoma with seeding of tumor cells into the vitreous from a focus of retinal embolism . the diagnosis was confirmed from a vitrectomy specimen . 
cellular immune response toward human articular chondrocytes . t cell reactivities against chondrocyte and fibroblast membranes in destructive joint diseases . articular cartilage is one of the major targets in destructive joint diseases in humans . we studied cellular immune reactions against cartilage cell-surface membranes , because it has recently been suggested that these represent possible antigenic structures , based upon the observation of autoantibodies with this specificity in certain joint diseases . a striking t cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes was found both in blood and synovial tissue from patients with rheumatoid arthritis . this reactivity was strongly dependent on the presence of monocytes and had all the characteristics of an antigen-driven process . clonal analysis demonstrated high precursor frequencies in peripheral blood t cells that were reactive against chondrocyte membranes . this response to chondrocyte membranes greatly exceeded the t cell stimulation induced by membranes from other sources such as fibroblasts or epithelial cells . in contrast to patients with rheumatoid arthritis , individuals with osteoarthritis showed a strong peripheral blood and synovial fluid t cell response not only to chondrocyte membranes , but also to fibroblast membrane material . however , there was no reactivity to epithelial cell membranes . normal donors generally did not show significant responses to any membrane preparation . these data indicate that there is a strong t cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes in destructive joint disorders , and this may significantly contribute to the pathogenetic processes that occur in these diseases . 
pseudotumor of the craniocervical junction during long-term hemodialysis . a systematic study of the upper cervical spine was performed using magnetic resonance imaging in 25 patients ( 15 men and 10 women ) who had been undergoing hemodialysis for more than 10 years . seven pseudotumors of the periodontoid soft tissue were disclosed , which were similar to the pannus recently described in rheumatoid arthritis . bone cystic radiolucencies were observed in association with these pseudotumors in 5 patients . the radiolucencies were located in the atlas ( 1 in the lateral mass and 1 in the anterior branch ) and in the axis ( 3 in the odontoid process and 1 in the vertebral body ) . no horizontal or vertical atlantoaxial subluxation was demonstrated . these features were observed only in patients who had amyloid arthropathy . they could be a frequent , yet thus far little-recognized , feature of beta 2-microglobulin amyloidosis . 
atrial fibrillation with cardiac tamponade as the initial manifestation of malignant pericarditis this article describes the case of a 72-year-old woman with cardiac tamponade and atrial fibrillation as the initial manifestation of a lymphoid malignancy . the pathogenesis of cardiac tamponade , various diagnostic modalities , and therapy of this condition are reviewed . 
platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine concentration in patients with pheochromocytoma . platelet and plasma catecholamine concentrations were determined in 17 patients with surgically proven pheochromocytoma ( mean age 42.3 years ) ; in 31 patients with borderline hypertension ( mean age 35.3 years ) and in 9 healthy controls ( mean age 39.3 years ) . both platelet norepinephrine and epinephrine were significantly increased in patients with pheochromocytoma when compared with hypertensive and control groups ( p less than .001 ) . no correlation between platelet and plasma catecholamines was detected in all studied groups . the diagnostic accuracy of platelet catecholamine in pheochromocytoma is limited since increased platelet norepinephrine was found in 35.5 % and increased platelet epinephrine was found in 19.4 % of patients with essential hypertension . 
a risk of malignancy index incorporating ca 125 , ultrasound and menopausal status for the accurate preoperative diagnosis of ovarian cancer . age , ultrasound score , menopausal status , a clinical impression score and serum ca 125 level were assessed to see how they could best distinguish between patients with benign ( n = 101 ) and malignant ( n = 42 ) pelvic masses . each criteria used alone provided statistically significant discrimination . the most useful individual criteria were a serum ca 125 level of 30 u/ml ( sensitivity 81 % , specificity 75 % ) and an ultrasound score of 2 ( sensitivity 71 % , specificity 83 % ) . three criteria could be combined in a risk of malignancy index ( rmi ) which is simply calculated using the product of the serum ca 125 level ( u/ml ) , the ultrasound scan result ( expressed as a score of 0 , 1 or 3 ) and the menopausal status ( 1 if premenopausal and 3 if postmenopausal ) . this index was statistically virtually as effective a discriminant between cancer and benign lesions as more formal methods . using an rmi cut-off level of 200 , the sensitivity was 85 % and the specificity was 97 % . patients with an rmi score of greater than 200 had , on average , 42 times the background risk of cancer and those with a lower value 0.15 times the background risk . 
serum ca 125 levels during the menstrual cycle . serum concentrations of ca 125 were measured in different phases of the menstrual cycle in 16 women with ovulatory and 12 women with anovulatory cycles . ca 125 levels were significantly elevated during menstruation in both groups . in women with anovulatory cycles , but not in those with ovulatory cycles , ca 125 levels were already increased in the premenstrual phase . a negative correlation was found between serum ca 125 and progesterone concentrations in the premenstrual phase of the cycle . we suggest that premenstrual elevation of serum ca 125 in women with anovulatory cycles is related to premature endometrial vascular changes which are the result of the low serum progesterone concentration leading to insufficient endometrial control . thus the effect of progesterone seems to be indirect rather than a direct effect on ca 125 synthesis . when the ca 125 assay is used for diagnosis of cancer , sampling should not be done immediately before or during menstruation because the physiological elevation of the ca 125 levels may give false positive results . 
the effect of abdominal surgery on the serum concentration of the tumour-associated antigen ca 125 . the ca 125 assay is used to monitor the course of disease in women with adenocarcinoma of the genital tract . we measured serum ca 125 levels longitudinally in three different groups of patients who had normal serum ca 125 levels ( less than or equal to 16 u/ml ) before extensive intraperitoneal abdominal surgery ( group 1 , second-look laparotomy in 28 women with ovarian cancer ; group 2 , radical hysterectomy in 42 patients with cervical cancer ; group 3 , 13 men and one woman who had aortic surgery for atherosclerotic occlusive disease or aneurysm formation ) . following surgery , rising serum ca 125 levels were observed in 69 out of the 84 patients ( 82 % ) , irrespective of the primary diagnosis , type of operation or sex . the highest levels were found during the second week after the operation ( range 3-336 u/ml ) and decreased gradually thereafter , to become normal at 8 weeks after surgery . it was concluded that abdominal surgery interferes with the specificity of ca 125 as a tumour marker during the early postoperative period . 
choroidal osteoma ( osseous choristoma ) : an atypical case . a case of choroidal osteoma presenting in a 22-year-old girl is reported . the tumour , unilateral and in a juxtapapillary site , appeared markedly elevated on the retinal plane , not flat or slightly elevated as in previous reports . visual acuity was not affected , and there was a complete absence of subjective symptoms . echography , fluorangiography , computerised tomography , and visual field tests were performed . echography is the best method for identifying and differentiating this lesion from a malignant tumour . 
all-trans retinoic acid as a differentiation therapy for acute promyelocytic leukemia . i. clinical results . twenty-two patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia were treated with all-trans retinoic acid ( ra , 45 mg/m2 per day ) for 90 days . of the 22 , four patients were previously untreated , two were resistant after conventional chemotherapy , and 16 were in first ( n = 11 ) , second ( n = 4 ) , or third ( n = 1 ) relapse . we observed 14 complete response , four transient responses , one failure , and three early deaths . length of hospitalization and number of transfusions were notably reduced in complete responders . correction of coagulation disorders and an increase of wbcs were the first signs of all-trans ra efficacy . morphologic analysis performed at days 0 , 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , and 90 showed that complete remissions were obtained without bone marrow ( bm ) hypoplasia . presence of auer rods in the maturing cells confirmed the differentiation effect of the treatment . at remission , the t ( 15 ; 17 ) initially present in 20 patients was not found . the in vitro studies showed a differentiation in the presence of all-trans ra in 16 of the 18 tested cases . the single nonresponder to all trans ra in vitro did not respond in vivo . adverse effects of ra therapy -- skin and mucosa dryness , hypertriglyceridemia , and increase of hepatic transaminases -- were frequently noted . we also observed bone pain in 11 patients and hyperleukocytosis in four patients . whether maintenance treatment consisted of low-dose chemotherapy or all-trans ra , early relapses were observed . five patients are still in complete remission ( cr ) at 4 to 13 months . our study confirms the major efficacy of all-trans ra in m3 , even in relapsing patients . remissions are obtained by a differentiation process . 
all-trans retinoic acid in acute promyelocytic leukemias . ii . in vitro studies : structure-function relationship . all-trans retinoic acid induces leukemic cells from patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia ( m3 ) to differentiate in vitro to mature granulocytes which express the cd15 antigen and are capable of respiratory burst function . of 35 m3 samples , only one failed to respond . in eight cases , we compared the efficacy of two naturally occurring isomers of retinoic acid , all-trans ra and 13-cis ra . both isomers induce maximal differentiation at 10 ( -6 ) mol/l . the maximal response was maintained at 10 ( -7 ) mol/l for the all-trans but not for the 13-cis ra . we also observed that the metabolites 4-oxo-all-trans and 4-oxo-13-cis were effective at 10 ( -6 ) mol/l . this 1 order of magnitude difference in the in vitro differentiating potencies of all-trans ra and 13-cis ra in the blasts of promyelocytic leukemias predicts a difference in the clinical efficacy of the two drugs . 
autologous bone marrow transplantation in high-risk remission t-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia using immunotoxins plus 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide for marrow purging . fourteen patients with high-risk t-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) in complete remission underwent autologous bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) in an attempt to eradicate their residual disease burden . a combined immunochemotherapy protocol using a cocktail of two immunotoxins directed against cd5/tp67 and cd7/tp41 t-lineage differentiation antigens in combination with the in vitro active cyclophosphamide congener 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide ( 4-hc ) was used to purge autografts . despite high dose pretransplant radiochemotherapy and effective purging of autografts , 9 of 14 patients relapsed at a median of 2.5 months ( range , 1.2 to 16.8 months ) post bmt . two patients remain alive and disease free at 26 and 28 months post bmt . we used a novel quantitative minimal residual disease ( mrd ) detection assay , which combines fluorescence activated multiparameter flow cytometry and cell sorting with leukemic progenitor cell ( lpc ) assays , to analyze remission bone marrow ( bm ) samples from t-lineage all patients for the presence of residual lpcs . notably , high numbers of residual lpc detected in remission bm before bmt constituted a poor prognostic indicator , providing the first evidence for the biologic significance and clinical value of in vitro t-lineage all lpc assays . the median value for the residual leukemia burden before bmt , was approximately 8.6 x 10 ( 3 ) lpc/10 ( 8 ) mononuclear cells ( mnc ) ( approximately 0.0086 % lpc ) . patients with a residual leukemia burden less than this median value appeared to have a better outlook for remaining free of relapse after autologous bmt than patients with a greater leukemia burden ( 53 + / - 25 % v 14 + / - 13 % , p = .006 , mantel-cox ) . by comparison , the log kill efficacy of purging , the remaining numbers of lpc in purged autografts , or the estimated numbers of reinfused lpc , did not correlate with the probability of disease-free survival ( dfs ) . these results indicate that the primary reason for the recurrence of leukemia was inefficient pretransplant radiochemotherapy rather than inefficient purging of autografts . 
human basophils express interleukin-4 receptors . interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) , a multipotential lymphokine reputed to play an important role in the regulation of immune responses , interacts with a variety of hemopoietic target cells through specific cell surface membrane receptors . the present study was designed to investigate whether human basophils express il-4 binding sites . for this purpose , basophils were enriched to homogeneity ( 93 % and 98 % purity , respectively ) from the peripheral blood of two chronic granulocytic leukemia ( cgl ) donors using a cocktail of monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) and complement . purified basophils bound 125i-radiolabeled recombinant human ( rh ) il-4 in a specific manner . quantitative binding studies and scatchard plot analysis revealed the presence of a single class of high affinity il-4 binding sites ( 280 + / - 40 sites per cell in donor 1 and 640 + / - 45 sites per cell in donor 2 ) with an apparent dissociation constant , kd , of 7.12 x 10 ( -11 ) + / - 2.29 x 10 ( -11 ) and 9.55 + / - 3.5 x 10 ( -11 ) mol/l , respectively . ku812-f , a human basophil precursor cell line , was found to express a single class of 810 to 1,500 high affinity il-4 binding sites with a kd of 2.63 to 5.54 x 10 ( -10 ) mol/l . no change in the numbers or binding constants of il-4 receptors was found after exposure of ku812-f cells to rhil-3 ( a potent activator of basophils ) for 60 minutes . no effect of rhil-4 on 3h-thymidine uptake , release or synthesis of histamine , or expression of basophil differentiation antigens ( bsp-1 , cd11b , cd25 , cd40 , cd54 ) on primary human cgl basophils or ku812-f cells was observed . 
developmental regulation of granulocytic cell binding to hemonectin . hemonectin ( hn ) , a component of the bone marrow ( bm ) extracellular matrix which promotes adhesion of cells in the granulocytic lineage , was purified to near homogeneity and tested for its ability to mediate attachment of normal and leukemic cells of granulocytic lineage . purified hn immobilized on plastic substrates promoted serum-free attachment of normal granulocyte/macrophage progenitor cells ( cfc-gm ) , using an in situ attachment assay in which cell attachment is inhibited by specific polyclonal antisera . when unfractionated bm cells were allowed to attach to purified hn and stained in situ , hn preferentially bound cells at earlier stages of granulocytic differentiation . these observations were confirmed using cells of the hl-60 progranulocytic cell line which mirrored this differentiation-stage specific binding to hn . hn promoted attachment of 60 % of uninduced hl-60 cells which were arrested at the progranulocyte stage , whereas only 15 % of uninduced hl-60 cells attached to uncoated plastic and 4 % to attached plastic coated with equal microgram quantities of bovine serum albumin ( bsa ) . when hl-60 cells were induced to differentiate along the granulocytic pathway by incubation with dimethylsulfoxide ( dmso ) , attachment to hemonectin was reduced . thus , both primary bm granulocytic cells and a granulocytic cell line show preferential attachment of those cells at earlier stages of differentiation . this developmentally regulated binding suggests a mechanism for release of maturing bm into the peripheral circulation . 
human macrophage colony-stimulating factor induces macrophage colonies after l-phenylalanine methylester treatment of human marrow . macrophage-colony stimulating factor ( m-csf ) has well-known effects on murine bone marrow , but its colony stimulating activity for human bone marrow is controversial . after treatment of human bone marrow with l-phenylalanine methylester ( pme ) , macrophage-colonies ( cfu-m ) were induced by m-csf in a dose-dependent fashion . the optimal concentration of recombinant human-macrophage colony stimulating factor ( rhm-csf ) was 1,000 u/ml . purified human urine m-csf had colony stimulating activity similar to rhm-csf . further studies were performed to determine the factors responsible for the enhanced cfu-m formation from pme treated marrow . compared with nylon wool and carbonyl iron monocyte depletion methods , pme eliminated significantly more monocytes and myeloid cells . this observation suggested that these cells may release hematopoietic inhibitory factors for cfu-m . low concentrations ( 1 % ) but not normal ( 10 % ) concentrations of blood monocytes were inhibitory ( mean inhibition , 48 % ) to cfu-m . high concentrations of monocytes ( 50 % ) augmented cfu-m colonies . hl-60 conditioned media was used to simulate secretory products of early myeloid cells . hl-60 conditioned media ( 1 % ) inhibited cfu-m formation but not granulocyte macrophage or granulocyte colonies . we conclude that m-csf has colony stimulating activity for human marrow that can be recognized after removal of inhibitory cells by pme treatment . 
immunophenotypic characteristics of cerebrospinal fluid cells in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia at diagnosis . the presence of meningeal involvement in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) may have important prognostic and therapeutic implications . conventional methods of diagnosing central nervous system ( cns ) leukemia rely on the interpretation of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) cell morphology , which may produce ambiguous results in the presence of minimal leukemic involvement . a methodology has been developed for immunophenotyping small numbers of csf cells while preserving cell morphology . csf samples from 33 children with cd10 ( common all antigen [ calla ] ) positive all were examined at initial presentation using both conventional morphology and this combined immunohistopathologic technique . six ( 18 % ) of the samples contained lymphoblasts or cells considered morphologically suspicious for leukemic involvement . nine additional samples ( 27 % of the total ) had normal csf morphology , but contained increased numbers of calla positive cells . twelve of the 33 samples were also examined for the simultaneous presence of nuclear terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase ( tdt ) and demonstrated increased numbers of cells positive for both tdt and cd10 . these data suggest that a large proportion of children with all may have abnormalities of csf cells at initial diagnosis consistent with the presence of occult leukemic involvement . 
ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia : molecular analysis of abl insertion into m-bcr on chromosome 22 . leukemic cells from a patient with ph-negative chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) had a normal karyotype . m-bcr was rearranged and chromosome in situ hybridization showed an abl insertion between 5 ' and 3 ' m-bcr on an apparently normal chromosome 22 . the association of 5 ' bcr and 3 ' abl at the 5 ' junction of the chromosome 9 insert was typical of that found for the bcr-abl fusion gene in other patients with the standard t ( 9 ; 22 ) and cml . with an m-bcr-3 ' probe , we cloned and characterized a 3 ' junction fragment . field inversion gel electrophoresis and chromosome in situ hybridization studies using a probe isolated from genomic dna 5 ' of the junction showed that 3 ' m-bcr was joined to a region of chromosome 9q34 rich in repetitive sequences and lying some distance 3 ' of abl . the chromosome 9 insert was at least 329 kilobases long and included 3 ' abl and a larger portion of chromosome 9q34 . our results allowed us to exclude transposon - or retroviral-mediated insertion of abl into chromosome 22 . instead , we favored a two-translocation model in which a second translocation reconstituted a standard t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) but left the chromosome 9 insert , including 3 ' abl , in chromosome 22 . 
new type of bcr/abl junction in philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia . a new and rare type of bcr/abl junction between exon c3 of the 3 ' portion of the bcr gene and abl exon 2 has been identified in the leukemic cells of two ph1-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia patients in chronic phase . this is the fourth type of bcr/abl junction so far identified in ph1-positive hematologic malignancies and is a consequence of an unusual breakpoint position on chromosome 22 that falls approximately 20 kb downstream of the major breakpoint cluster region ( bcr ) of the bcr gene . the new hybrid mrna is 540 base pairs ( bp ) longer than that expressed by the k562 cell line and could codify for a bcr/abl protein carrying 180 additional aminoacids with respect to the larger p210 protein so far identified . the hematologic phenotype expressed by the two patients carrying this unusual type of bcr/abl rearrangement does not significantly differ from that commonly seen in chronic myelogenous leukemia . 
shared idiotype expression by chronic lymphocytic leukemia and b-cell lymphoma . antiidiotype ( id ) antibodies identify unique determinants within the surface immunoglobulin ( ig ) that are present on b-cell tumors . anti-ids have been used for diagnosis and therapy of b-cell lymphoma and leukemia . a panel of 29 anti-id monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) that recognize shared idiotypes ( sids ) on b-cell lymphomas was tested for reactivity with both b-cell leukemias and lymphomas . ten of 40 ( 25 % ) cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) reacted with at least one of the 29 anti-sid moabs . three cases reacted with more than one anti-sid moab , but there was no repetitive pattern of a single anti-sid moab reacting with a large proportion of cll cases . in contrast , for b-cell lymphoma , in which 11 of 31 ( 36 % ) cases reacted , one anti-sid ( b4-1 ) reacted with five of the positive cases ; all were diffuse histology . restricted anti-sid reactivity may lead to important insights into the etiology of certain b-cell lymphomas . in addition , these anti-sids may obviate the need to develop " tailor-made " antibodies for individual patients . 
in vitro rosetting , cytoadherence , and microagglutination properties of plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes from gambian and tanzanian patients . to understand the molecular mechanisms that lead to sequestration of red blood cells infected with mature stages of plasmodium falciparum and to examine the relevance of earlier studies on adherence properties of laboratory-derived p falciparum parasites to the natural parasite population , we analyzed gambian and tanzanian isolates for in vitro cytoadherence and antibody-mediated microagglutination . eighteen cryopreserved isolates of ring-stage parasites were cultured for 20 to 30 hours in vitro , in the patients original erythrocytes , to the trophozoite and schizont stage . all parasites were positive in the microagglutination assay with at least one of four african hyperimmune sera . in a rosetting assay , only 2 of the 18 isolates were strongly positive ( 35 % and 41 % of parasitized erythrocytes with more than two uninfected cells bound ) . thirteen isolates showed either intermediate ( 5 % to 18 % ) or low ( less than 5 % ) rosetting while three isolates did not form rosettes . infected cell-binding of the different isolates to immobilized cd36 or thrombospondin , or c32 melanoma cells correlated with the percentage of mature parasites in the blood samples ( r = .932 for cd36 , r = .946 for thrombospondin , and r = .881 for c32 melanoma cells ) . there was a high correlation between binding to cd36 and thrombospondin ( r = .982 ) . the extent of infected cell rosetting with uninfected cells in these blood samples was not correlated with these other receptor properties . we also observed coexpression of rosetting and cytoadherence receptors on the same parasitized erythrocytes . 
autologous bone marrow transplantation in multiple myeloma : identification of prognostic factors . multiple myeloma remains a universally fatal malignancy with a median survival time not exceeding 3 years . a clinical trial was undertaken to determine feasibility and efficacy of marrow-ablative chemoradiotherapy supported by unpurged autologous bone marrow ( abmt ) and to define prognostic variables . total body irradiation and either melphalan or thiotepa were administered to 55 patients ( median age 53 years ; range 20 to 66 years ) . the group of 21 patients with resistance to standard melphalan-prednisone and to continuous infusions of vincristine and adriamycin with high dose dexamethasone ( vad ) included 7 with primary unresponsive disease and 14 with resistant relapse ; among the 34 patients achieving remission with the vad regimen , 14 were in first and 20 in a subsequent remission . marked cytoreduction by greater than or equal to 75 % was observed among all 21 patients with refractory myeloma , whereas further cytoreduction of this magnitude was noted in only 56 % of the 34 patients already in remission after vad . five of the 6 early deaths among all 55 patients occurred in the 14 patients with resistant relapse , none of whom achieved complete remission and who , as a group , had median durations of relapse-free and overall survival of only 8 and 7 months , respectively . among the 41 remaining patients , there was only one early death , and 27 % achieved complete remission including a 36 % incidence among the 14 patients treated in first remission ; their projected 4-year survival rate was 82 % regardless of their disease status ( first or later remission or primary resistance ) . when information about sensitivity to prior therapy is unavailable , the presence before abmt of both high beta-2-microglobulin levels ( greater than 3 mg/l ) and non-igg isotype helped identify 9 among the 55 patients with a very poor prognosis : all 8 responders relapsed within 9 months , and 8 patients died within 15 months . by contrast , a 4-year projected survival rate of over 70 % for the other patients ( about 80 % of this series ) justifies further investigation of this novel treatment approach in comparison with standard dose regimens . our results indicate that marrow-ablative therapy can not be recommended for myeloma patients with resistant relapse or those with a combination of risk factors ( advanced tumor burden , absence of igg isotype ) . the apparent lack of an adverse effect of even marked plasmacytosis in autografts ( up to 30 % ) emphasizes the need for better cytoreduction rather than bone marrow purging . 
induction of donor-type chimerism in murine recipients of bone marrow allografts by different radiation regimens currently used in treatment of leukemia patients . three radiation protocols currently used in treatment of leukemia patients before bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) were investigated in a murine model ( c57bl/6 ---- c3h/hej ) for bm allograft rejection . these include ( a ) a single dose of total body irradiation ( 8.5 gy tbi delivered at a dose rate of 0.2 gy/min ) , ( b ) fractionated tbi ( 12 gy administered in six fractions , 2 gy twice a day in 3 days , delivered at a dose rate of 0.1 gy/min , and ( c ) hyperfractionated tbi ( 14.4 gy administered in 12 fractions , 1.2 gy three times a day in 3 days , delivered at a dose rate of 0.1 gy/min ) . donor-type chimerism 6 to 8 weeks after bmt and hematologic reconstitution on day 12 after bmt found in these groups were compared with results obtained in mice conditioned with 8 gy tbi delivered at a dose rate of 0.67 gy/min , routinely used in this murine model . the results in both parameters showed a marked advantage for the single dose 8.5 gy tbi over all the other treatments . this advantage was found to be equivalent to three - to fourfold increment in the bm inoculum when compared with hyperfractionated radiation , which afforded the least favorable conditions for development of donor-type chimerism . the fractionated radiation protocol was equivalent in its efficacy to results obtained in mice irradiated by single-dose 8 gy tbi , both of which afforded a smaller but not significant advantage over the hyperfractionated protocol . this model was also used to test the effect of radiation dose rate on the development of donor-type chimerism . a significant enhancement was found after an increase in dose rate from 0.1 to 0.7 gy/min . further enhancement could be achieved when the dose rate was increased to 1.3 gy/min , but survival at this high dose rate was reduced . these results demonstrated indirectly that dose rate affects the expression of host-type pluripotent stem cells , the progeny of which appear 3 to 6 weeks after treatment with 8 gy tbi delivered at a dose rate of 0.1 gy/min , but which are eradicated if radiation is delivered at a dose rate of 1.3 gy/min . 
contamination of peripheral blood stem cell harvests by circulating neuroblastoma cells . peripheral blood stem cells ( pbsc ) are being used as one alternative to autologous marrow rescue for patients with neuroblastoma and other solid malignancies . some physicians prefer use of pbsc because less risk of tumor contamination is believed to exist . this hypothesis was evaluated by immunocytologic analysis of blood samples and concurrently drawn bone marrow ( bm ) samples and of pbsc harvests obtained from 31 patients with disseminated neuroblastoma . we found circulating neoplastic cells in 75 % of specimens analyzed at diagnosis , in 36 % during therapy , and in 14 % of pbsc harvests . tumor cells in blood obtained during therapy did not appear until 3 months after the time of diagnosis . clearance of circulating neuroblastoma cells was documented after two courses of induction chemotherapy . six of 13 patients with minimal or no bm disease had positive blood specimens . we conclude that substantial risk of tumor contamination of pb harvests exists and recommend that induction chemotherapy be administered before hematopoietic progenitor cells are collected from blood . 
four and a half year follow up of women with dyskaryotic cervical smears . objective -- to determine the proportion of women with mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears who ( a ) progress to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii or worse or ( b ) regress . design -- four and a half year cytological follow up study of women with mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears . setting -- 666 women ( mean age 28 ( sd 8 ) years ; range 14-74 ) found to have borderline , mild , or moderate dyskaryosis on routine screening . results -- 45 women ( 6.8 % ) had a cone biopsy recommended on the basis of an abnormal follow up smear ( severe dyskaryosis suggestive of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii or invasive cancer ) , and in one patient cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii was reported in a biopsy specimen after dilatation and curettage . life table analysis gave a 14 % probability of a patient being recommended for a biopsy after four and a half years of follow up ( 95 % confidence interval 12 % to 15 % ) . there was a significant excess incidence of invasive cancer of the cervix in the series compared with the general population ( five cases observed compared with less than 0.1 expected ) . 157 patients ( 24 % ) showed reversion to a normal cell pattern sustained in several smears over more than 18 months but a single negative smear was an unreliable indicator of apparent regression . having two successive smears showing mild dyskaryosis or a smear at any time showing moderate dyskaryosis was a significant predictor of a subsequent severely dyskaryotic smear . conclusions -- women found to have mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears should be kept under regular surveillance . the optimum management of these patients -- by cytology or colposcopy -- needs to be determined by randomised controlled trials . 
distribution of bony metastases in prostatic carcinoma . fifty-five prostate cancer and 55 breast cancer patients with positive bone scintigrams were studied . the pattern of spread in the axial skeleton and pelvis showed differences between the 2 groups . this difference was not related primarily to bone volume at the site of metastasis . the difference in distribution of bony metastases between breast and prostate is explained by our knowledge of batson 's vertebral venous plexus . 
increased survival of patients with massive lymphadenopathy and prostate cancer : evidence of heterogeneous tumour behaviour . the survival of patients with prostate cancer and radiologically detectable lymph node enlargement has been studied prospectively over an 8-year period . computed tomography in 108 patients presenting with symptoms , signs or biochemical results suggesting lymphatic spread revealed pelvic or abdominal node masses in 60 patients ; in 29 ( 48 % ) , the masses measured more than 4 cm and the maximum node diameter was 15 cm . two-thirds of patients had advanced ( t3/t4 ) tumour stage . following treatment , actuarial survival in all 60 patients with nodal enlargement was 40 % at 5 years . within this group , survival in 22 patients with lymphadenopathy but negative bone scans at diagnosis was significantly better than that of 38 patients with both node and bone disease ( 70 % vs 20 % at 5 years ) . this improvement was related both to an apparent inability of certain tumours initially to progress and seed within bone and to a marked sensitivity of the node masses to subsequent hormonal manipulation . primary tumour grade was proportionally similar in both groups . unexpectedly , 6 of the 38 patients with combined disease obtained a complete remission after treatment . the reason for this heterogeneous biological behaviour remains unclear ; but these observations underscore the importance of vigorous treatment in all patients with advanced lymph node disease . 
persistent carcinoma in situ of the testis after chemotherapy for advanced testicular germ cell tumours . the chemosensitivity of testicular carcinoma in situ ( cis ) was analysed in 25 testes excised 10 weeks to 4.5 years following platinum-based chemotherapy . cis was present in 8 of the 23 evaluable cases ( 35 % ) , in 5 of which the lesion coexisted with invasive germ cell tumour . it is concluded that cis may persist or recur after chemotherapy . this has implications for occult presentation of metastatic germ cell tumours and also for the management of the contralateral testis in patients with testicular germ cell tumours . 
the importance of prognostic factors in the individual treatment of patients with disseminated germ cell tumours . following chemotherapy for disseminated testicular cancer , 55 patients underwent surgery because of residual tumour . the histological findings were viable tumour in 12 patients , mature teratoma in 12 and fibrosis and/or necrosis in 31 . retroperitoneal abdominal masses were evaluated radiographically before and after chemotherapy . the reduction in size of these masses after chemotherapy appeared to have prognostic significance . a decrease of more than 70 % was always associated with fibrosis . a residual mass over 50 mm indicated viable tumour or mature teratoma . seminoma or embryonal carcinoma was more likely to result in fibrosis/necrosis in the resected tissue . both the indiana and the eortc classification models can be used for prognosis . radiographic measurements before and after chemotherapy are of considerable prognostic significance . these objective indicators help in planning treatment and so diminish the side effects of therapy and maintain or even increase the high cure rate in disseminated testicular cancer . 
bile acids and the increased risk of colorectal tumours after truncal vagotomy . an association between colorectal cancer and previous peptic ulcer surgery is reported . in a prospective screening study , 100 asymptomatic patients ( 80 men and 20 women ) who had undergone truncal vagotomy at least 10 years previously were investigated by barium enema , colonoscopy and gallbladder ultrasonography . control data were obtained from forensic autopsy subjects . the incidence of neoplasms greater than or equal to 1.0 cm in the vagotomized group was 14 per cent ( 11 adenomas , 3 carcinomas ) and 3 per cent in controls ( p = 0.01 ) . duodenal bile obtained at endoscopy from 21 vagotomized patients with normal gallbladders and from 21 control patients undergoing endoscopy was analysed by high performance liquid chromatography . the mean percentage of cholic ( ca ) , chenodeoxycholic ( cdca ) , deoxycholic ( dca ) and lithocholic ( lca ) acids in the bile of vagotomized patients was 32.3 , 45.6 , 20.7 and 1.4 per cent respectively compared with 45.3 , 36.2 , 17.9 and 0.7 per cent respectively in controls . the increased proportions of cdca and lca and decreased proportions of ca in the duodenal bile of vagotomized patients were significant ( p less than 0.001 ; p = 0.02 ; p = 0.007 ) . abnormalities in bile acid metabolism may help to explain the increased risk of colorectal neoplasia 10 years after truncal vagotomy . 
urinary tissue factor activity in colorectal disease . procoagulant activity ( pca ) in normal urine has been recognized for over 50 years . although tissue factor ( tf ) is produced by certain tumours , and is increased in both tumour-associated macrophages and blood monocytes , the possibility that it might also be increased in urine has not been studied in patients with cancer . we have measured urinary pca in hospital controls without inflammatory or neoplastic disease ( n = 79 ) , in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( n = 8 ) , inflammatory bowel disease ( n = 19 ) , colorectal cancer ( n = 70 ) and in patients undergoing colonoscopy ( n = 50 ) . urinary pca was higher ( p less than 0.001 ) in patients with colorectal cancer and inflammatory bowel disease than controls or patients with rheumatoid arthritis . fourteen ( 88 per cent ) out of 16 colonoscopy patients subsequently found to have carcinoma or inflammatory bowel disease had levels above the control upper quartile , compared with 8 ( 24 per cent ) out of 34 with normal colonoscopy ( p less than 0.001 ) . tf inhibitors confirmed the nature of the pca and western blotting studies indicated a urinary tf molecular weight of approximately 38,000 . these studies provide further evidence of abnormal haemostasis in malignancy and suggest that determination of urinary tf may provide a useful screening test in patients undergoing colonoscopy . 
malignant left-sided large bowel obstruction managed by subtotal/total colectomy . of 60 patients presenting with acute obstructing carcinoma of the left colon , 49 underwent immediate resection either by radical subtotal/total colectomy ( 31 patients , group i ) or by radical segmental resection ( 18 patients , group ii ) of whom three had immediate anastomosis after on-table bowel irrigation and 15 had a planned staged procedure . the operative mortality rate was 3 per cent in group i and 11 per cent in group ii ( not a statistically significant difference ) . however , substantial differences were found for major morbidity ( 6 versus 44 per cent in groups i and ii respectively ; p less than 0.01 ) and mean length of hospital stay ( 17 days in group i versus 35 days in group ii ; p less than 0.05 ) . all three patients who had on-table lavage developed anastomotic leaks which necessitated a second operation to form a stoma . six patients ( 19 per cent ) in group i required antidiarrhoeal medication in the immediate postoperative period . however , subsequent improvement in stool frequency was noted in all patients . it is concluded that subtotal/total colectomy is an acceptable means of managing patients with obstructing carcinoma of the left colon in that it is associated with a low morbidity and mortality rate and good functional results . 
blood transfusion and recurrence of colorectal cancer : the role of platelet derived growth factors . efforts to explain the possible effects of blood transfusion on the recurrence of colorectal cancer have been based entirely on the immunosuppressive effects of blood transfusion . however , the relationship between solid tumour development and the immune system is inconclusive . we have investigated an alternative mechanism involving the potential role of growth factors in this phenomenon . using a human fibroblast : [ 125i ] deoxyuridine uptake mitogenesis assay , the relative amounts of growth factor in the plasma of stored blood were measured . there was a progressive increase in mitogenesis from day 0 ( n = 6 ) to day 28 ( n = 6 ; p less than 0.001 , mann-whitney u test ) . the effect of growth factors on the development of liver and intraperitoneal metastases was studied in hooded lister rats . following an intraportal injection of 10 ( 5 ) mc28 tumour cells , the experimental group ( n = 25 ) received 2 ml of syngeneic serum intravenously for 4 days . likewise , colonic anastomoses were performed on omentectomized rats and the peritoneal cavity seeded with 10 ( 3 ) cells . the experimental groups ( n = 20 ) received either 2 ml serum intravenously repeatedly or 3 ml serum intraperitoneally ( n = 19 ) . there was no significant increase in liver metastases or peritoneal disease following intravenous infusion of serum but serum delivered intraperitoneally resulted in a significant increase in tumour from 22 per cent in the controls to 89 per cent in the study group ( p less than 0.01 ) . growth factors released from platelets following blood loss into the peritoneal cavity may be important in enhancing local recurrence of colorectal cancer . 
laser recanalization versus endoscopic intubation in the palliation of malignant dysphagia . forty patients with widely disseminated or locally advanced malignant obstruction of the middle or lower third of the oesophagus underwent endoscopic treatment by either ndyag laser recanalization or intubation . groups were matched on the basis of tumour location and swallowing was graded clinically before and after treatment . technical success was achieved in 17 of 20 laser treated and 18 of 20 intubated patients . pretreatment swallowing ability , histology , tumour location and overall length were unrelated to functional outcome in both groups . however , circumferential tumour length identified endoscopically strongly influenced the quality of swallowing after laser recanalization . patients with excellent swallowing quality ( n = 7 ) had significantly shorter circumferential tumour lengths , 3.1 ( 1.0 ) cm , than those with poorer quality swallowing ( n = 10 ) , 6.3 ( 1.6 ) cm , ( p less than 0.001 ) . both methods of treatment had low complication rates and there was one death in the series in the laser-treated group . laser recanalization provides a better functional result than intubation for short ( less than 4 cm ) circumferential tumour . intubation at a single session seems more appropriate than repeated laser therapy when tumour length exceeds 4 cm . 
aetiology of pancreatic cancer curative surgery is possible in only a small minority of patients with pancreatic cancer and , to date , responses to chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been disappointing . to make any impact on the incidence of the disease a clearer understanding of its aetiology is required . this review explores present knowledge of the aetiology and epidemiology of pancreatic cancer . 
premorphological metabolic changes in human breast carcinogenesis . malignant breast tissue is characterized by morphological and metabolic changes when compared with normal breast tissue . in this study , the cytochemical measurement of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase ( g6pd ) activity was used to detect abnormal metabolism in breast tissue and to determine whether abnormal metabolic activity precedes morphological change during human breast carcinogenesis . normal and benign breast tissue , morphologically normal tissue from cancer-containing breasts , and malignant breast tissue were studied . in malignant tissue , mean ( s.e.m. ) g6pd activity was significantly increased when compared with normal and benign tissue ( 9.69 ( 2.3 ) versus 27.02 ( 1.7 ) mean integrated extinction ( mie ) x 100 , p less than 0.01 ) . g6pd activity was increased in morphologically normal tissue from cancer-containing breasts when compared with normal and benign breast tissue from breasts with no known cancer ( 27.02 ( 1.7 ) versus 18.42 ( 2.6 ) mie x 100 , p less than 0.05 ) . these findings suggest that metabolic abnormalities precede morphological changes in breast carcinogenesis . abnormal metabolism can be detected widely within a cancer-containing breast . the detection of such abnormality may prove helpful in identifying patients at high risk of developing breast cancer . 
a phase i study of a new cisplatin derivative for hematologic malignancies . dwa2114r ( dwa ) is a new derivative of platin compounds that is currently being used in phase ii studies of solid tumors in japan . the dose-limiting factor is myelotoxicity with mild extramedullary toxicity . this phase i study consisted of adult patients with relapsed hematologic malignancies . eight patients received a total of 15 treatment courses of dwa . the starting dose was 800 mg/m2 over 24 hours by continuous infusion . the dose was first increased to 1200 mg/m2 and then to 1600 mg/m2 . clinical toxicity and urinary excretion studies of dwa suggested that 1200 mg/m2/d for successive days would be the best type of administration . when 1200 mg/m2/d was given for 5 days , grade 2 to 3 diarrhea and nausea and vomiting were encountered requiring parenteral fluids and nutritional support . this suggested that the dose-limiting factor with this schedule was gastrointestinal toxicity . myelotoxicity was severe , as expected , but tolerable . one of the five patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) entered into complete remission and one patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) in crisis returned to the chronic phase . a phase ii trial of dwa is warranted for hematologic malignancies , especially in myeloid diseases . 
toxicity of high-dose cytosine arabinoside in the treatment of advanced childhood tumors resistant to conventional therapy . a pediatric oncology group study . experience with high-dose cytosine arabinoside ( hdac ) in pediatric solid tumors is limited . sixteen children with solid tumors resistant to conventional therapies were registered in a pilot pediatric oncology group ( pog ) study that required the administration of hdac at 3 g/m2 every 12 hours for four doses . there were four cases of rhabdomyosarcoma , two cases of fibrosarcoma , four cases of neuroblastoma , and one case each of germ cell tumor , wilm 's tumor , retinoblastoma , hepatocellular carcinoma , ewing 's sarcoma , and burkitt 's lymphoma . all eligible patients had advanced diseases and had previously received extensive chemotherapy . thirteen patients received one course of hdac and three patients received two courses of hdac . due to prior treatments , patients had less than normal marrow reserves . short-term toxicity included nausea , vomiting , suppression of hemopoiesis , drug fever , and increased blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) , creatinine , and liver enzymes . all evaluable patients recovered from their toxicities . there were no drug-related deaths . none of the patients had neurologic problems , including the only patient with prior irradiation to the skull . with the above schedule , hdac appears to have manageable toxicity . 
endoscopic screening of early esophageal cancer with the lugol dye method in patients with head and neck cancers . the poor prognosis for esophageal cancer could be improved if lesions were detected at an early stage . to detect early esophageal cancer , endoscopic screening of the esophagus with the lugol dye method was performed in patients with head and neck cancers who were asymptomatic but regarded as being at high risk for synchronous or metachronous esophageal cancer . of 178 patients screened , 9 had esophageal cancer ( 5.1 % ) . eight of these patients ( 89 % ) were at early stages with no lymph node metastasis . most of the lesions ( 9 of 13 lesions ) were not detectable by barium studies or ordinary endoscopic study . the epidemiologic statistical analysis of the patients confirmed that they had a significantly high observed and expected number ( o/e ) ratio ( 39.7 ; p less than 0.001 ) . these results demonstrate the value of endoscopic screening of the esophagus with the lugol dye method in patients with head and neck cancers and imply that endoscopic screening with the lugol dye method may be useful for detecting early esophageal cancer in individuals at risk for other causes . 
primary chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy and/or surgery for children with localized sarcoma of the bladder , prostate , vagina , uterus , and cervix . a comparison of the results in intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma studies i and ii . a major objective of the second intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma study ( irs-ii ) ( 1978 to 1984 ) was to preserve the bladder without compromising the survival of children with localized genitourinary sarcomas arising in or near the bladder . after incisional biopsy , 109 patients with localized , gross residual sarcoma of the prostate ( 43 patients ) , bladder ( 43 patients ) , vagina ( 20 patients ) , or cervix/uterine corpus ( 3 patients ) were treated with vincristine , dactinomycin , and cyclophosphamide ( vac ) . after two to four drug courses , radiation therapy and/or surgery were used to treat patients with residual or recurrent tumor . the 3-year survival rate of patients treated on this primary chemotherapy regimen ( 70 % ) was similar to that of the primary surgery regimens of irs-i ( 78 % ; p = 0.46 ) , but the 3-year disease-free survival rate was significantly inferior ( 52 % versus 70 % ; p = 0.02 ) . since the irs-ii encouraged bladder preservation at the onset of therapy , the percentage of patients with bladder and prostate tumors who retained the bladder was initially substantially higher in irs-ii ( 97 % ) than in irs-i ( 58 % ) . however , the percentages of 95 patients with bladder-prostate ( bp ) tumors in irs-ii who retained the bladder and were alive at 2 and 3 years after starting treatment were only 33 % and 22 % , respectively , compared with 26 % and 23 % , respectively , in the 66 patients with bp tumors in irs-i . thus , sequential treatment with primary chemotherapy , followed by radiation therapy and/or surgery as given in irs-ii , failed to improve the eventual bladder salvage rate . 
a phase i study of 4 ' -0 - tetrahydropyranyladriamycin . clinical pharmacology and pharmacokinetics . a phase i study of intravenous ( iv ) bolus 4 ' -0 - tetrahydropyranyladriamycin ( pirarubicin ) was done in 55 patients in good performance status with refractory tumors . twenty-six had minimal prior therapy ( good risk ) , 23 had extensive prior therapy ( poor risk ) , and six had renal and/or hepatic dysfunction . a total of 167 courses at doses of 15 to 70 mg/m2 were evaluable . maximum tolerated dose in good-risk patients was 70 mg/m2 , and in poor-risk patients , 60 mg/m2 . the dose-limiting toxic effect was transient noncumulative granulocytopenia . granulocyte nadir was on day 14 ( range , 4-22 ) . less frequent toxic effects included thrombocytopenia , anemia , nausea , mild alopecia , phlebitis , and mucositis . myelosuppression was more in patients with hepatic dysfunction . pharmacokinetic analyses in 21 patients revealed pirarubicin plasma t 1/2 alpha ( + / - se ) of 2.5 + / - 0.85 minutes , t beta 1/2 of 25.6 + / - 6.5 minutes , and t 1/2 gamma of 23.6 + / - 7.6 hours . the area under the curve was 537 + / - 149 ng/ml x hours , volume of distribution ( vd ) 3504 + / - 644 l/m2 , and total clearance ( clt ) was 204 + 39.3 l/hour/m2 . adriamycinol , doxorubicin , adriamycinone , and tetrahydropyranyladriamycinol were the metabolites detected in plasma and the amount of doxorubicin was less than or equal to 10 % of the total metabolites . urinary excretion of pirarubicin in the first 24 hours was less than or equal to 10 % . activity was noted in mesothelioma , leiomyosarcoma , and basal cell carcinoma . the recommended starting dose for phase ii trials is 60 mg/m2 iv bolus every 3 weeks . 
successful treatment of metastatic thymic carcinoma with cisplatin , vinblastine , bleomycin , and etoposide chemotherapy . thymic carcinomas are rare malignant neoplasms of the thymic epithelium that are distinguished from the malignant thymomas by the presence of cytologic atypia . thymic carcinomas may metastasize outside of the thorax and are associated with a very poor prognosis . complete responses of thymic carcinoma to chemotherapy alone have not been reported . a 21-year-old man with metastatic undifferentiated carcinoma of probable thymic origin is presented who achieved a pathologic complete response with cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin chemotherapy . additional consolidative chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide was administered . the patient remains disease-free 5 years after diagnosis . cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin chemotherapy appears to have significant activity against thymic carcinoma . 
testicular relapse in children with acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia . the clinical course and other distinctive features of five children who developed a testicular relapse 4 months to 25 months after the diagnosis of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia ( anll ) are described . the chief presenting feature at relapse was painless testicular enlargement , as is also seen in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who relapse in the testes . by french-american-british convention , the malignant cells were classified as m4 ( myelomonoblastic ) in four cases and m2 ( myeloblastic ) in one . all children received a course of multiagent reinduction chemotherapy and all but one received local irradiation to the testes . only one of these children , whose relapse was a late event after elective cessation of therapy , is a long-term survivor . a comparison with six previously published cases shows similar clinical characteristics and outcome . given the poor responses of such patients to conventional treatment , it seems worthwhile to consider the use of intensive reinduction chemotherapy with concomitant bilateral testicular irradiation followed by remission intensification and an autologous or allogenic marrow transplant . 
structural and ultrastructural study of the ovary in childhood leukemia after successful treatment . ovarian biopsy specimens from ten girls ( three postmenarcheal ) who had undergone antiblastic treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) and were in complete remission were examined by light microscope . the biopsy specimens from four of these patients ( three postmenarcheal ) were also observed by electron microscope . the structural and ultrastructural analysis showed a reduction in the number of follicles which were otherwise normal . no follicles were found in the thin sections from two of the three postmenarcheal girls , whereas normal follicles were observed in the third . the cortical stroma showed moderate to severe signs of fibrosis and changes of capillaries . all of these alterations were more evident in patients where all was diagnosed at an older age and this finding suggests that they are at a higher risk for low fertility or early menopause . 
surgical treatment of brain metastases in malignant melanoma . the authors report the results of a retrospective review of 13 patients who underwent 19 craniotomies for resection of metastatic malignant melanoma at the university of colorado ( denver , co ) between 1983 and 1989 . there was preoperative evidence of extracranial disease in 11 patients . eight patients had more than one intracranial metastasis at operation . intraoperative ultrasound was used in 18 of the 19 craniotomies to minimize surgical trauma to the brain . the 30-day mortality was zero . the 30-day morbidity was minimal . no patient acquired a new neurologic deficit as a result of surgery . all patients regained at least their preoperative level of functioning . six of the patients who were living at the time of review have been followed for 4 to 25 months ( median , 7.5 months ) . the seven patients who were dead at the time of review survived 4 to 18 months ( median , 10 months ) . these results compare favorably with the survival of untreated patients with metastatic melanoma to the brain ( median , 1 month ) , patients treated with radiation therapy alone ( median , 2-4 months ) , and those treated with chemotherapy alone ( median , 2-4 months ) . the excision of metastatic melanoma from the brain , although not curative , may increase survival in patients with this problem with little morbidity and mortality even in the presence of other metastases . 
expression of major histocompatibility complex class ii antigens and interleukin-1 by epithelial cells of warthin 's tumor . the immunoreactivity for class ii antigens of the major histocompatibility complex and interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) in warthin 's tumor ( wt ) cells was studied . in addition to macrophages , dendritic cells , and capillary endothelia , the luminal tumor cells and some keratinocytes in the metaplastic squamous foci exhibited immunoreactivity for both class ii antigens and il-1 . the distribution of the class ii antigens in the luminal tumor cells was limited to their basolateral membrane . these data , together with previous findings , strongly suggest that the luminal tumor cells of wt introduce the luminal antigen to the underlying lymphoid tissue and , thus , act as an antigen-presenting cell . 
loss of expression of blood group antigen h is associated with cellular invasion and spread of oral squamous cell carcinomas . membrane-bound carbohydrates may influence the metastatic behavior of cancer cells . forty-two squamous cell carcinomas ( scc ) of the buccal and maxillary alveolar mucosa were studied retrospectively using a monoclonal antibody ( be2 ) that reacts with blood group h ( type 2 chain ) structure and an immunoperoxidase ( avidin-biotin peroxidase complex ) staining technique . h-antigen staining within the entire tumor did not correlate with the stage of the tumor , i.e. , tumor spread . however , loss of staining within the most invasive sites of the tumors correlated significantly with the stage of tumor development and histologic grade of malignancy . these findings support the view that features regarding the cells of deeper parts of the carcinomas are very important for the clinical behavior of the tumors and that loss of h-antigen expression is related to the stage of the tumor and invasion of carcinoma cells . 
occurrence of beta-hexachlorocyclohexane in breast cancer patients . the residues of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon ( pah ) and neutral organochlorine compounds in breast fat of 44 breast cancer patients and 33 women free of cancer were determined . no statistically significant differences appeared between the two comparison groups with regard to occurrence of pah compounds . of the neutral organochlorine compounds , residues of beta-hexachlorocyclohexane ( hch ) were found more frequently in breast cancer patients . after adjusting for age and parity by stepwise logistic regression , beta-hch remained a significant risk factor of breast cancer . using a cutoff point for the residue level of beta-hch in breast adipose tissue of more than 0.1 mg/kg fat , the odds ratio was 10.51 ( 95 % ci , 2.00-55 .26 ) . 
cell lineage markers in human pancreatic cancer . the normal pancreas consists of three major cell types or lineages that share a common embryologic origin from pluripotent endodermal precursors . the type of cell that undergoes neoplastic transformation to form a pancreatic carcinoma is controversial and may influence the phenotype and biologic behavior of the tumor . in this study , immunohistologic techniques were used to determine the cell lineage differentiation expressed in 29 primary exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas , five metastatic exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas , and five islet cell neoplasma . specimens of normal pancreas and chronic pancreatitis were used for comparison . the cell lineage markers consisted of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies against trypsin and lipase ( acinar cells ) ; secretory component , carbonic anhydrase ii , and pancreatic cancer mucin span-1 ( ductal cells ) ; and chromogranin-a and somatostatin ( islet cells ) . the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) and lysozyme were also determined . this collection of markers allowed the differentiation between acinar , ductal , and islet cells of normal pancreas and chronic pancreatitis specimens . the expression of cell lineage markers in islet cell tumors was homogeneous and restricted to chromogranin-a . in contrast , the expression of these markers in primary and metastatic exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas was variable . reactivity with monoclonal anti-cea was absent in normal pancreas , and was present in 83 % of chronic pancreatitis specimens as well as 90 % of exocrine pancreatic adenocarcinomas . in addition , lysozyme reactivity was absent in normal pancreas ; however , lysozyme was expressed in one case of chronic pancreatitis , 17 cases of primary carcinoma , and three cases of metastatic carcinoma . these findings support the concept that the original transformed cell type in many pancreatic exocrine carcinomas resemble endodermal " stem cells " that retain the capability of differentiation along more than one cell lineage pathway . 
expression of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor gene in human colorectal tumor . expression of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor ( psti ) gene was examined by northern blotting analyses in 31 human colorectal tumors that included two benign adenomas and 26 adenocarcinomas . among the total of 28 cases which proved to be adequate for mrna analyses , all but one showed the expression of psti at various levels . in contrast , psti expression was not detected in two malignant lymphomas of the rectum . the level of psti expression was not correlated with the patient 's age , sex , tumor location or size , stage of differentiation , lymph node metastasis , or progression stage . some colorectal adenocarcinomas were also shown to express genes that can hybridize with human trypsinogen cdna probe . it looks as though in these tumors , a protease ( s ) and its inhibitor are produced simultaneously as part of a cellular self-defense mechanism . 
an analysis of abnormalities of the retinoblastoma gene in human ovarian and endometrial carcinoma . the altered expression of the human retinoblastoma ( rb ) gene has been demonstrated to play an important role in the pathogenesis of rb and other tumors . to determine whether the rb gene might be involved in the pathogenesis of human ovarian and endometrial cancer , dna from 24 human ovarian tumors , 3 normal ovaries , 3 endometrial carcinomas , and 1 endometrial hyperplasia was examined with an rb complementary dna probe . evidence for homozygous deletion of the rb gene was observed in only one specimen . interestingly , the specimen was an endometrioid tumor of the ovary of low malignant potential ( lmp ) . this patient experienced rapid progression of the tumor and died 8 months after diagnosis . abnormalities of the rb gene may be involved in the aggressive biologic behavior of certain forms of ovarian carcinoma , particularly those of lmp . 
the physical state of human papillomavirus 16 dna in cervical carcinoma and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia . cervical carcinomas and cervical intraepithelial neoplasias ( cin ) were analyzed for the presence of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) dna using southern blot hybridization . of the five hpv types examined ( hpv types 6 , 11 , 16 , 18 , and 33 ) , hpv 16 dna was detected most frequently . in most hpv 16-positive carcinomas examined , hpv 16 dna was present in an integrated state in cellular dna with or without the coexistence of episomal species . in one case , however , only episomal species were detected . among seven cases of hpv 16-positive cin , four contained hpv 16 dna only in the episomal state and the rest contained hpv 16 dna only in the integrated state , but the coexistence of both states was not found . these results suggest that the integration of hpv 16 dna is not necessary for cells to become malignant , although it is frequently associated with malignant cells . 
the world health organization 's histologic classification of gastrointestinal tumors . a commentary on the second edition . the world health organization 's ( who ) histologic classification of gastrointestinal tumors has been revised . although the general basis of classification and the overall outline remain similar to the first edition , advances in the last decade justified changes in classifying certain entities ; among them were malignant lymphomas , endocrine tumors , and dysplasias . several newly recognized entities have also been added . 
distribution of immunoglobulins and secretory component in gastric cancer of the aged . the secretory immune system plays an important role in the local humoral immunity of the gastrointestinal tract . in order to evaluate humoral immunity in gastric cancer , distribution of immunoglobulins ( ig ) and secretory component was immunohistochemically studied in 74 early and 15 advanced primary gastric cancers . in non-cancerous gastric mucosa , iga and igm , and secretory component were mainly identified in the cytoplasm of the intestinal metaplasia . in early gastric cancer of well-differentiated type , the localization of iga and igm , and secretory component was similar to that of intestinal metaplasia . in advanced gastric cancer , they were faintly observed and showed low positivity . the number of ig-containing cells infiltrating cancerous stroma was enumerated . immunoglobulin a-containing cells were dominant in the stroma of early gastric cancer . on the other hand , there were few ig-containing cells in the stroma of advanced gastric cancer , and the number of iga-containing and igm-containing cells was also decreased . these results suggest that local humoral immunity is suppressed in gastric cancer , especially in advanced gastric cancer . 
growth and spread of hepatocellular carcinoma . a review of 240 consecutive autopsy cases . all 240 consecutive cases of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) that underwent autopsy at the national cancer center hospital ( tokyo , japan ) between september 1962 and august 1986 were reviewed . among these cases , 162 , for which photographs of cut surfaces of the primary tumors were available , were grossly classified using a combination of both eggel 's classification and our own into three major types , i.e. , nodular , massive , and diffuse as described by eggel ( eggel h , beitr pathol anat 1901 ; 30:506 -604 ) , and three subgroups of nodular type , i.e. , single nodular type ( type 1 ) , single nodular type with extranodular growth ( type 2 ) , and contiguous multinodular type ( type 3 ) by our classification ( kanai t et al. , cancer 1987 ; 60:810 -819 ) . seventy-eight cases were classified as nodular type , comprising seven cases of type 1 , 61 cases of type 2 , and ten cases of type 3 . sixty-seven and 17 cases were classified as massive and diffuse type , respectively . of the 78 nodular-type tumors , 59 measured less than 10 cm , whereas 64 of 67 massive-type tumors were 10 cm or more in size . the incidence of intrahepatic and extrahepatic tumor spread of hcc was significantly higher for tumors measuring more than 5 cm . as to the relationship between macroscopic type and tumor spread , the frequency of spread was lowest for type 1 tumors , and high for the other types . intrahepatic metastasis was detected in 28.6 % of type 1 , 93.4 % of type 2 , 100 % of type 3 , and 98.5 % of massive-type tumors . lymph node metastasis was detected in 14.3 % of type 1 , 24.6 % of type 2 , 70 % of type 3 , 38.8 % of massive-type and 52.9 % of diffuse-type tumors . hematogenous extrahepatic metastasis was detected in 14.3 % of type 1 , 47.5 % of type 2 , 70 % of type 3 , 74.6 % of massive-type and 82.4 % of diffuse-type tumors . it appears that not only primary tumor size but also its macroscopic type has an important influence on the growth and spread of hcc . 
dna analysis of multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas . the authors used retrospective quantitative dna analysis to study interrelationships between multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas in seven patients . dna content was determined by image analysis on feulgen-stained nuclear smears prepared from multiple paraffin blocks from each tumor . tumors were unilateral in four cases and bilateral in three . ten tumors had homogeneous , and four heterogeneous dna stemlines . intertumoral heterogeneity in four cases suggested multifocal origin . identical dna aneuploid indices in bilateral tumors in one case suggested metastasis from a solitary origin . abnormal dna content and heterogeneous populations began to appear in the size range 2.0 to 5.0 cm . all tumors over 5.0 cm contained nondiploid populations . although the interrelationships between these multiple synchronous neoplasms are not entirely clear , the dna analysis suggests that the occurrence of nondiploid stemlines and heterogeneous dna content may parallel both tumor growth and more aggressive behavior . 
giant cell tumor of bone . a clinicopathologic and dna flow cytometric analysis . flow cytometric dna analysis was performed on 60 cases of giant cell tumor of bone and the results were correlated with the clinicopathologic features . tumors studied were from 31 men and 29 women whose ages ranged from 18 to 62 years ( median , 29 years ) . the most common sites were the distal end of the femur and proximal end of the tibia , accounting for 75 % of the lesions . treatment consisted of resection in 29 patients ( 48 % ) , curettage with bone chip packing in 15 patients ( 25 % ) , or curettage with cement packing in 16 patients ( 27 % ) . ten patients ( 17 % ) had local relapse within 1 to 3 years , and two had lung metastases . forty-two patients ( 70 % ) exhibited tumors with a diploid dna content , 16 aneuploid ( 27 % ) , and two tetraploid ( 3 % ) . six ( 37.5 % ) of the aneuploid patients had relapses : one of those had been treated by resection of the tumor and five by curettage . of the remaining ten ( 62.5 % ) unrelapsed aneuploid patients , nine had been treated by resection of the tumor and one by curettage . four of the 42 diploid patients ( 9.5 % ) had relapses ; all had been treated by curettage of the tumor . the two tetraploid tumors were treated by resection and none relapsed . histologic parameters did not correlate with relapse rate or dna pattern . although relapse was more common among aneuploid tumors , our study shows that this appears to be influenced by the treatment modality rather than the ploidy status . based on this study the dna analysis of giant cell tumor of bone has a limited utility for predicting the tumor 's biologic behavior . 
hyperthermia alone in the treatment of recurrences of malignant tumors . experience with 60 lesions . localized hyperthermia alone has been used for the treatment of cancer recurrences in which previous conventional therapies have failed . since 1983 and 1988 , 57 patients with 60 lesions have been heated by means of a microwave and radiofrequency system . treatment protocol provided 45 minutes of heating at the intratumor temperature of at least 42 degrees c , twice a week , for a total number of six , eight , or ten heating sessions . invasive intratumor thermometry was performed for all lesions . complete response ( cr ) was obtained in ten cases ( 16.6 % ) and partial response ( pr ) in 14 ( 23.4 % ) . higher rates of cr were observed in the chest wall ( 38.5 % ) compared with the head and neck area ( 11.4 % ) , trunk ( 10 % ) , and limbs ( none ) . adenocarcinoma was the most responsive histologic type ( 40 % ) . squamous cells carcinoma had 7.7 % cr . the only case of undifferentiated carcinoma showed cr ; there were none on five sarcomas . long-term local control ( 24 months ) was approximately 7 % . the multivariate analysis showed the statistical significance of the histologic variety ( adenocarcinoma versus others , p less than 0.0001 ) . side effects and complications of the treatment were minimal . 
effectiveness of periodic checkup by ultrasonography for the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma . periodic checkup by ultrasonography was conducted on patients with chronic liver diseases for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma . in 19 months , a total of 2004 examinations were performed on a total of 660 cases ( 179 cases with liver cirrhosis in the compensatory stage , younger than 70 years ; 481 cases with chronic hepatitis , aged 40 to 70 years for men and 50 to 70 years for women ) . of the 660 cases , 22 hcc cases ( 3.3 % ) were detected and finally diagnosed by angiography and/or histologic examination . four of those cases ( 18 % ) had a single nodule smaller than 1 cm in diameter , and 11 cases ( 50 % ) had a single nodule smaller than 2 cm . surgical resection was performed on 12 cases ( 55 % ) . in comparison with the control group ( 83 hcc cases not receiving any periodic checkup ) , the frequency of small liver cancer and the surgical resection rate in the study group were significantly higher . this examination system by periodic ultrasonography checkup of patients with chronic hepatic diseases was effective for early detection and permitted aggressive therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma . 
clear cell adenocarcinoma of the lower genital tract . correlation of mother 's recall of diethylstilbestrol history with obstetrical records . the written obstetric records of maternal exposure to diethylstilbestrol ( des ) were used as a criterion standard and compared with the des exposure history recalled by mothers of women with vaginal , cervical , or indeterminable vaginal/exocervical clear cell adenocarcinoma . among cervical cases , the sensitivity of maternal recall was 50 % ( n = 2 ) , and its specificity was 100 % . among vaginal and vaginal/exocervical cases , this sensitivity was 72 % ; specificity was 60 % ; and the majority of these mothers who said they did not take des were des positive by written records . thus investigators should avoid using maternal recall alone to measure des exposure . among subjects for whom written maternal obstetric records were available , 88 % of vaginal cases and 46 % of cervical cases were des positive . the authors conclude that few cases of vaginal clear cell adenocarcinoma should occur in young women as the cohort of women exposed in utero to des continues to age , whereas cases of cervical origin may continue to occur . 
sarcoid reaction mimicking intrathoracic dissemination of testicular cancer . the close observation of patients treated for testicular cancer led to the suspicion of intrathoracic and/or mediastinal metastases on radiologic examination in a number of patients without other evidence of relapse . this report presents two patients with combined seminomatous and nonseminomatous germ cell tumors with isolated sarcoid reactions of hilar and interlobular lymph nodes , detected concomitant with diagnosis and 12 months after diagnosis , respectively . histologic examination appears to be imperative in these cases to avoid unnecessary chemotherapy . 
multiple spinal metastases from paraganglioma . isolated vertebral body metastases from paraganglioma are exceedingly rare . they have been reported to occur in the presence of active primary tumor in the neck , local recurrence , or widespread metastases . a unique case of carotid body tumor ( paraganglioma ) is reported with the following features : ( 1 ) multiple vertebral body metastases ( c6 , t9 , and l3 ) presenting with spinal cord compression , and no evidence of local recurrence or other metastatic disease ; ( 2 ) absence of mitoses on the original specimen or the metastatic deposit ; and ( 3 ) a prolonged interval ( 9 years ) to the development of symptomatic metastases . 
malignant fibrous histiocytoma developing in bone 44 years after shrapnel trauma . tumors induced by foreign bodies are uncommon in humans , but they are a relatively common occurrence in some experimental animals . the development of sarcoma in association with metallic foreign bodies has rarely been reported . the development of a malignant fibrous histiocytoma in a 65-year-old man 44 years after shrapnel fragments lodged in his left arm is described . the literature regarding metallic foreign body-induced cancer in humans is reviewed . 
genetic diagnosis of lynch syndrome ii in an extended colorectal cancer-prone family . knowledge of colon cancer genetics , with particular attention to precision in hereditary cancer syndrome diagnosis , can often enable highly targeted surveillance and management strategies for patients at high genetic risk . unfortunately , the patient 's family history of cancer is often given minimal attention , and knowledge of hereditary cancer syndromes is frequently limited . indeed , many physicians still consider familial adenomatous polyposis ( fap ) as the only genetic risk factor for colorectal cancer . this concern with fap was noted in a colorectal cancer-prone kindred which for decades had been thought to manifest that syndrome . however , after meticulous genetic , medical , and pathologic studies , the cardinal phenotypic characteristics of lynch syndrome ii were observed . the potential for cancer control in current and future generations of families like this one clearly mandates the need for computerized registries which could transmit current information about hereditary colon cancer syndrome diagnosis , surveillance , and management . 
cancer in the families of children with soft tissue sarcoma . the cancer experience among 754 first-degree relatives ( mothers , fathers , and siblings ) of a population-based series of 177 children with soft tissue sarcoma is reported . the current study represents an extension of our earlier work in which the authors found an excess of breast cancer in the mothers of 143 of these children . there were 40 cancers among all first-degree relatives , compared with 24.82 expected ( relative risk [ rr ] 1.61 , p = 0.006 ) . there was no excess in fathers , but an excess of borderline significance was seen in mothers ( rr 1.67 , p = 0.0545 ) , and a significant excess in siblings ( rr 4.55 , p = 0.0002 ) , mainly due to carcinoma of the breast and pediatric tumors . results of a step forward cox multivariate analysis identified three variables in the index child which were independently associated with high cancer risk in relatives , as follows : age younger than 24 months at diagnosis ; histologic type , embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma or other and unspecified soft tissue sarcoma ; and male sex . it was possible , therefore , to identify a subgroup of children whose relatives are at high risk of early onset cancer ( rr in this group 10.14 ) . the pattern of cancers is consistent with the li-fraumeni syndrome . the authors conclude that a marked proportion of childhood soft tissue sarcoma has a genetic basis . 
cholecystectomy and right colon cancer in puerto rico . a case-control study was undertaken to evaluate the possible relationship between cholecystectomy and right colon cancer . two hundred patients with adenocarcinoma of the cecum or ascending colon ( diagnosed between 1984 and 1989 ) were compared with 200 matched neighborhood controls . cholecystectomy history was obtained through interviews using structured questionnaires and subsequently validated from hospital records . a statistically significant association ( odds ratio = 2.14 ) was found between right colon cancer and a history of prior cholecystectomy . the altered bile metabolism which occurs after removal of the gallbladder may have a carcinogenic effect on the right colon . dietary habits of the colon cancer patients in our study were consistent with prior reports in the literature , showing that this group has a lower intake of vegetables and cereal fiber than the control population . 
concomitant cisplatin chemotherapy and radiotherapy in advanced mucosal squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . long-term results of the radiation therapy oncology group study 81-17 . one hundred twenty-four eligible patients with advanced mucosal squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were entered into a pilot study of concomitant cisplatin ( 100 mg/m2 given every 3 weeks for three doses ) and standard irradiation . the initial complete response ( cr ) was 71 % with an additional two cases salvaged by surgery for an overall 73 % cr . when no keratin was identified in the histologic specimen ( 41 patients ) the cr was 90 % . the nasopharynx showed the best cr ( 89 % ) among the sites . at 4 years after treatment , the estimated locoregional tumor control rate was 43 % and the survival , 34 % . when no keratin was present in the specimen , the estimated locoregional control of tumor was superior ( 56 % versus 38 % with keratin identified , p = 0.02 ) and the estimated survival was also superior ( 48 % versus 26 % , p = 0.008 ) . acute treatment-related toxicities included one death due to renal damage and two patients with life-threatening renal damage . the delivery of radiotherapy was not altered . late toxicity included necrosis -3 % , fibrosis -4 % , and one fistula . the results of this study justify a randomized trial for the comparison of this combination of cisplatin and radiotherapy versus radiotherapy alone in advanced mucosal carcinomas of the head and neck . 
treatment of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome-related kaposi 's sarcoma with bleomycin as a single agent . a nonrandomized trial was conducted to assess the efficiency and toxicity of bleomycin as a single agent in treatment of non-life-threatening aids-related kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) . sixty patients were enrolled in this study . they all had a disseminated and progressive non-life-threatening aids-related ks associated with systemic symptoms and/or cd4 lymphocyte count less than 400/mm3 . thirty patients were treated with intramuscular bleomycin ( 5 mg/d for 3 days every 2 or 3 weeks ) and 30 others with a slow continuous intravenous infusion of bleomycin ( 6 mg/m3/d for 4 days every 4 weeks ) . the mean duration of therapy was 5 months ( range , 2 to 24 months ) . a partial response was observed in 29 patients ( 48.3 % ) and the disease was stabilized in 18 additional patients ( 30 % ) . bleomycin failed in 21.6 % of patients . therapy had to be discontinued in two patients because of side effects . thus bleomycin as a single agent is a good alternative therapy for aids-related ks . 
final report of the french multicenter phase ii study of the nitrosourea fotemustine in 153 evaluable patients with disseminated malignant melanoma including patients with cerebral metastases . one hundred sixty-nine patients with histologic evidence of disseminated malignant melanoma , including patients with cerebral metastases , were entered into a phase ii study of the nitrosourea fotemustine . the treatment regimen consisted of a 100 mg/m2 1 hour iv infusion every week for 3 consecutive weeks , followed by a 4 - to 5-week rest period ( induction therapy ) . in responding or stabilized patients , maintenance therapy consisted of 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks until the disease progressed . one hundred fifty-three patients were evaluable for response . three complete responses and 34 partial responses were observed ( according to the world health organization criteria ) , leading to an objective response rate of 24.2 % ( 95 % confidence interval : 17.4 % to 31.0 % ) . responses were also documented on cerebral ( 25.0 % ) , visceral ( 19.2 % ) , or nonvisceral ( 31.8 % ) metastatic sites . the median duration of response was 22 weeks ( range , 7 to 80 weeks ) . the objective response rate in previously untreated patients was 30.7 % ( 19 of 62 patients ) . the main toxicity was hematologic with delayed and reversible leukopenia and/or thrombopenia . the objective response rate observed ( especially in untreated patients ) , the activity on cerebral metastases , and the small amount of extra-hematologic toxicity encountered suggest that fotemustine is an effective drug in disseminated malignant melanoma . 
treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with emphasis on intensive induction chemotherapy . a report from the study group of japan . one hundred nine newly treated patients with advanced neuroblastoma were entered in this study between january 1985 and may 1989 . the eligible patients included infants younger than 12 months of age with stage iva disease ( bone cortex , distant lymph node , and/or remote organ metastases ) and patients aged 12 months or older with stage iii or iv disease ( iva plus ivb with tumor crossing the mid-line and with metastases confined to bone marrow , liver , and skin ) . the patients first received six cyclic course of intensive chemotherapy ( regimen a1 ) , consisting of cyclophosphamide ( 1200 mg/m2 ) , vincristine ( 1.5 mg/m2 ) , tetrahydropyranyl adriamycin ( pyrarubicin ; 40 mg/m2 ) , and cisplatin ( 90 mg/m2 ) . original tumors and the regional lymph node metastases were removed some time during these first six cycles of chemotherapy . the patients were further divided into three groups . patients in course 1 received alternating treatment by regimen b ( cyclophosphamide and acnu ) and intensified regimen a1 , and those in course 2 were treated with alternating administration of regimen c ( cyclophosphamide and dtic ) and intensified a1 . patients in course 3 were treated with bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) preceded by high-dose preconditioning chemotherapy . survival rates were 77 % in stage iii and 54 % in stage iv at 2 years , and 70 % in stage iii and 45 % in stage iv at 3 years . the major toxicities encountered were bone marrow suppression with leukocyte counts down to 100/mm3 , mild cystitis , and hearing impairment . the 2-year survival rate was 78 % in 21 patients who underwent bmt when complete remission was achieved . we concluded that our intensive induction chemotherapy is of significant value in increasing the rate of complete response , and in widening the indications for and achieving improved results of treatment with bmt . 
toxic dermatitis induced by 10-ethyl-10-deaza-aminopterin ( 10-edam ) , a novel antifolate . a new methotrexate analog , 10-ethyl-10-deaza-aminopterin ( 10-edam ) , was found to induce a particular form of skin toxicity different than the skin rash reported to result from methotrexate . at histologic examination , it was found to be a toxic dermatitis that clinically most often first appears on the lower legs but can occur anywhere in the body , especially if treatment is continued . nine cases are reported . a specific risk factor could not yet be identified . discontinuation of 10-edam administration leads to complete healing ; concomitant corticosteroid treatment also induces healing . 
chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome after the treatment of head and neck cancer . a case report . a 62-year-old woman who was being treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck developed a chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome during the second cycle of neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin , bleomycin , and methotrexate . though the syndrome was suspected early , attempts at reversing the hematologic and renal abnormalities were unsuccessful . at postmortem examination , the characteristic microvascular lesions of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome were found in the kidneys . 
primary carcinoma of the upper urinary tract . effect of primary and secondary therapy on survival . the pathologic material and medical records of 76 patients with primary upper urinary tract carcinomas were reviewed to identify the role of grade and stage in predicting survival ; to determine any differences in survival between ureteral and renal pelvic carcinoma ; to understand the role of local therapy in low grade , low stage tumors ; and to establish the usefulness of adjuvant therapies in metastatic disease . kaplan-meier survival curves with cox-mantel analysis for statistical significance revealed both grade and stage to be excellent predictors of survival . no differences in survival were noted between renal pelvic and ureteral carcinomas for equivalent stage tumors . for low grade , low stage tumors , although there was an increased risk of local recurrence with local therapy , there were no differences in survival between patients treated with local therapy or radical surgery . finally , cisplatin-based chemotherapy seemed to improve survival in patients with metastatic disease . 
osteosarcoma of the maxilla in hong kong chinese postirradiation for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . a report of four cases . postirradiation osteosarcoma of the maxilla was seen in four hong kong chinese patients treated for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . these cases represent four of 42 ( 9 % ) cases of osteosarcoma at all sites in this institution during the period 1979 to 1989 , when more than 1000 patients were treated with radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . the latent periods varied from 8 to 11 years from completion of radiotherapy treatment to development of osteosarcoma . the radiation dosage varied from 6000 to 6280 cgy in three of the patients . these cases fit the criteria for diagnosis of postirradiation sarcomas . maxillary osteosarcomas after irradiation for nasopharyngeal carcinoma do not appear to have been described . the very high incidence of nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( for which radiotherapy is the treatment of choice ) in hong kong chinese would make the occurrence of such tumors more likely in hong kong , although the small risk does not contraindicate the use of radiation in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma in view of its well-documented efficacy . 
the significance of low-grade prostate cancer on needle biopsy . a radical prostatectomy study of tumor grade , volume , and stage of the biopsied and multifocal tumor . twenty-one cases showing only low gleason grade prostate carcinoma on needle biopsy were identified . in 15 cases radical prostatectomy was performed with the entire prostate embedded for thorough evaluation of grade , volume , and stage of tumor at the needle biopsy site as well as of multifocal tumor . eight specimens had solitary low grade and low volume tumor , with only one of these cases showing minimal capsular penetration and the others confined to the prostate . four cases had low-grade tumor at the biopsy site , yet multifocal higher grade tumor . all of these tumor nodules were low volume and confined to the prostate . in three cases there was both low-grade and high-grade tumor in the nodule sampled by needle biopsy . in two of these cases the tumor was large and in the third it was small but mostly higher grade , with two of these cases showing capsular penetration . although transrectal ultrasound and repeat needle biopsy would most likely have identified either the tumors ' large size or high-grade component in these latter three cases , it is unlikely that these techniques would have identified the cases of multifocal higher grade tumor because of their relatively small size . furthermore , preoperative serum prostate specific antigen levels and clinical stage failed to distinguish those cases with higher grade tumor . because of the difficulty in identifying these areas of high-grade tumor preoperatively , it is uncertain whether expectant therapy could be recommended even for patients with very low-grade cancer on needle biopsy . 
perinatal infection of human t-lymphotropic virus type i , the etiologic virus of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma . dna amplification of specific human t-lymphotropic virus type i sequences . a gene amplification technique , polymerase chain reaction , was used to detect human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) , the etiologic agent of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma , in mononuclear cells in peripheral blood and breast milk of ten htlv-i carrier gravida . the dna in umbilical cord blood mononuclear cells of the neonates born to the htlv-i carrier gravida were also amplified and examined for the possibility of htlv-i infection via placenta during pregnancy . the htlv-i sequences were detected both in the peripheral blood and milk of all ten carrier gravida by southern blot analysis of amplified dna . however , htlv-i proviral dna could not be detected in the cord blood of the carriers ' neonates , indicating that transplacental infection of htlv-i should be rare and that postpartum infection via breast milk is a likely major perinatal transmission route . 
impaired production of tumor necrosis factor in breast cancer . spontaneous and lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) - induced production of tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) by peripheral blood macrophages was investigated in breast cancer . whereas spontaneous tnf production by macrophages derived from patients with breast cancer was comparable with the one found in healthy controls ( p greater than 0.1 ) , lps-stimulated macrophages derived from patients in the disease-free interval as well as with metastatic breast cancer were found to produce significantly lower amounts of tnf , as compared with macrophages derived from healthy control individuals ( p less than 0.0005 ) . however , the production of tnf did not significantly differ between the two patient populations ( p greater than 0.05 ) . the impairment of lps-induced tnf production did not depend upon such characteristics of the primary tumor as size , axillary lymph node and estrogen receptor status , or upon the fact of administration of adjuvant chemotherapy and , in patients with metastatic disease , hormone treatment . to further investigate cytokine production by macrophages , spontaneous and lps-induced interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) production was investigated also . however , no difference was found between patients and controls concerning il-1 generation . the authors thus conclude that lps-induced tnf production was impaired in breast cancer independent of the presence of detectable metastatic disease , whereas il-1 production remained unimpaired . 
medroxyprogesterone acetate lowers plasma corticotropin and cortisol but does not suppress anterior pituitary responsiveness to human corticotropin releasing factor . the endocrine action of medroxyprogesterone acetate ( mpa ) has been claimed to be of a glucocorticoid-like nature . upon clinical observation , mpa has been shown to improve life quality and overall well-being in patients with advanced breast cancer , renal carcinoma , prostatic carcinoma , and uterine adenocarcinoma . the authors have evaluated mpa endocrine action by the administration of human corticotropin releasing factor ( hcrf ) in a 90-minute assay in 15 patients with advanced breast cancer or renal cell carcinoma both , before the initiation of oral high-dose mpa treatment ( 1000 mg mpa ) as well as after at least 10 days of therapy . the curves for corticotropin , beta-endorphin , and cortisol responses to hcrf of tumor patients who were tested before the initiation of mpa treatment were parallel to the curves of a healthy control group of probands tested under equal conditions , although at significantly higher respective hormone levels . in patients with malignant disorders assayed after mpa administration , both basal and peak hormone levels were found to be comparable with values obtained in healthy controls . in conclusion , mpa appeared to act at a suprapituitary level since pituitary responsiveness to hcrf was preserved under mpa treatment . moreover , it appeared that mpa brought the hormonal stress state found in patients with malignant tumors back to normal . 
possible involvement of the retinoblastoma gene in undifferentiated sinonasal carcinoma . retinoblastoma tumor formation is initiated by the loss of function of both alleles of the rb-1 gene on chromosome 13 . patients with the hereditary form of retinoblastoma carry a germ line mutation at one of the two homologous gene loci in all cells and have an increased risk for nonocular tumors ( mainly osteosarcoma and other mesenchymal tumors ) in later life . the authors studied a 38-year-old patient with sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma ( snuc ) who had been treated for bilateral retinoblastoma by enucleation ( left eye ) and irradiation ( right eye ) , respectively . using molecular probes for the rb-1 gene and other loci on chromosome 13 , the authors detected a deletion at the rb-1 locus in metastatic snuc cells that was not present in normal tissue . these findings indicate that somatic mutations at rb-1 locus may be involved in the formation or progression of ectodermal tumors . 
sialosyl-tn . a novel mucin antigen associated with prognosis in colorectal cancer patients . colon cancers typically produce mucin . however , it is not known whether tumor mucin plays a biological role in cancer cell behavior . to address this issue , the expression of a mucin-associated antigen , sialosyl-tn , was examined by immunohistochemical study in 128 primary colorectal carcinoma specimens from 137 patients who underwent curative surgical resection . antigen expression was correlated with disease-free and overall 5-year survival . sialosyl-tn antigen expression occurred in 112 ( 87.5 % ) tumors , and was independent of age , gender , tumor location , dukes ' stage , depth of invasion , degree of differentiation , and ploidy status . survival at 5 years for patients with sialosyl-tn-negative versus sialosyl-tn-positive tumors was 100 % versus 73 % ( p less than 0.05 ) and disease-free survival was 94 % versus 73 % , respectively ( p = 0.12 ) . although more advanced dukes ' stage , deeper invasion , and aneuploidy were all associated with poorer overall 5-year survival , antigen-negative tumors within each of these groups had much better prognoses than antigen-positive tumors . multivariate regression analysis revealed that tumor ploidy ( p less than 0.001 ) and sialosyl-tn expression ( p less than 0.05 ) were the two variables of most importance for predicting both disease-free and overall survival . the authors conclude that sialosyl-tn expression is an independent predictor of poor prognosis in colon cancer , and therefore suggest that qualitative mucin alterations may reflect important differences in the biological behavior of these neoplasms . 
characterization of epidermal growth factor receptor in normal and neoplastic human endometrium . growth factors , including epidermal growth factor ( egf ) , have been implicated in the growth of several types of cancer . this study compares egf receptors in normal and neoplastic endometrium . membrane fractions were isolated from surgical specimens . radioreceptor assays demonstrated the presence of receptors with a dissociation constant of 0.64 nmol/l in normal endometrium . affinity cross-linking revealed receptor molecular weight of 150 to 170 kilodaltons ( kd ) . a survey of samples ( n = 37 ) revealed progressive decrease of egf receptors in cancers of increasing grade : grade 1-2 adenocarcinoma decreased 34 % from control ( n = 6 , p less than 0.01 ) , whereas grade 3 adenocarcinoma decreased 90 % ( n = 7 , p less than 0.01 ) and sarcoma decreased by 72 % ( n = 3 , p less than 0.01 ) . the dissociation constant and molecular weight of the receptor in neoplastic endometrium did not differ significantly from normal . the inverse relationship with grade suggests receptor alteration or down regulation by hormones and/or growth factors . 
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells . mesothelioma has not been commonly reported as a cause of hypercalcemia of malignancy . we have studied a patient with malignant mesothelioma and hypercalcemia in association with elevated plasma concentrations of parathyroid hormone-like peptide ( plp ) . immunohistochemical analysis of the tumor and seven of eight other mesotheliomas that were not associated with hypercalcemia revealed the presence of plp cytoplasmic immunopositivity . plp immunopositivity was also detected in normal and reactive mesothelial cells . the results of these studies suggest that plp immunoreactivity is common in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells and raises the possibility that plp production may play a role in the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia associated with mesothelioma . 
increased expression of the multidrug-resistance gene in undifferentiated sarcoma . we analyzed multidrug-resistance gene ( mdr1 gene ) expression in a patient with undifferentiated sarcoma of the liver using the cloned cdna for the mdr1 gene . tissue samples were available at the time of initial diagnosis and of two intracranial relapses after chemotherapy with a regimen including doxorubicin and teniposide . the level of mdr1 gene expression was increased sevenfold in the intracranial tumor at the time of first relapse and 11-fold at the second relapse . this case may be an example of acquired multidrug resistance associated with overexpression of the mdr1 gene . 
diffuse intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma . a clinicopathologic study and comparison with small lymphocytic lymphoma and diffuse small cleaved cell lymphoma . controversy has recently arisen as to whether diffuse intermediate lymphocytic lymphoma ( ill ) should be considered a low-grade or an intermediate-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphoma for clinical purposes . therefore , the authors performed a clinicopathologic study to determine the biologic course of diffuse ill ( 40 cases ) and compared it with small lymphocytic lymphoma ( sll ; 51 cases ) and diffuse small cleaved cell lymphoma ( dsccl ; 14 cases ) . they found that patients with diffuse ill having pseudofollicular proliferation centers ( pc ) had a significantly longer median survival ( 84 months ) than those without pc ( 46.5 months ; p = 0.03 ) . the median survival of patients with sll was 72 months , whereas those with dsccl had a median survival of only 18 months . based on these findings , the authors conclude that diffuse ill with pc should be included in the low-grade category of sll for clinical purposes , whereas diffuse ill without pc ( true diffuse ill ) should be considered an intermediate-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . true diffuse ill is similar to centrocytic lymphoma in the kiel classification and should be accorded a similar status in a modified working formulation . 
intraoperative pathologic diagnosis of thyroid neoplasms . report on experience with 504 specimens . intraoperative pathologic examination with frozen section ( fs ) was performed on 504 specimens of thyroid tissue obtained from 457 patients over a period of 9 years . after examination of permanent sections ( ps ) a malignant neoplasm was diagnosed in 57 specimens ( 11.3 % ) ; 50 ( 87 % ) of these were primary thyroid carcinoma , four ( 8 % ) metastatic carcinoma , and three ( 5 % ) malignant lymphoma . the fs diagnosis was " benign " in 448 ( 88.9 % ) , " malignant " in ( 30 ) 5.9 % , and " deferred " in 26 ( 5.2 % ) . the sensitivity of fs diagnosis of malignancy was 53 % and the specificity and positive predictive value 100 % . the negative predictive value was 97.8 % and overall accuracy 97.9 % . the ps disclosed a malignant neoplasm in 62 % of specimens in which fs diagnosis was " deferred . " sixty-eight percent of papillary carcinomas , 87 % of undifferentiated carcinomas , and a single case of medullary carcinoma were diagnosed with fs examination . a fs diagnosis of malignancy was not made in any of the ten specimens containing follicular carcinoma ; in all ten the neoplasms were well-differentiated and eight were encapsulated and minimally invasive . the inability to diagnose follicular carcinoma intraoperatively with fs is the most significant factor accounting for the relatively low sensitivity of fs diagnosis of malignant thyroid neoplasms . 
cerebral tumor staging in patients with bronchial carcinoma by computed tomography . computerized tomographic ( ct ) scans of 271 patients with histologically proven bronchial carcinoma accomplished for initial tumor staging were retrospectively evaluated for signs of cerebral metastasis . the results for the histologic subtypes were quite different . in 13.8 % of patients with small cell carcinoma and limited disease the authors found signs of brain metastasis . however , routine cerebral staging in these patients did not seem to be useful because of lack of therapeutic consequences . on the other hand , no patient with non-small cell carcinoma ( n-scc ) and tumor stage i or ii had brain metastases . all patients with brain metastasis from n-scc had been classified as tumor stage iii before cerebral imaging . among these patients , however , the authors found brain metastasis in 17.5 % of those without known distant metastatic disease ( iii/m0 ) , especially in large cell carcinoma and in adenocarcinoma . stage iii/m0 patients should undergo routine cerebral imaging if their tumor is surgically resectable and thoracotomy is planned . 
infiltration of dendritic cells in relation to tumor invasion and lymph node metastasis in human gastric cancer . the infiltration of dendritic cells determined in 210 patients with gastric carcinoma was investigated from the standpoint of tumor invasion , lymph node metastasis , and prognosis . dendritic cell infiltration was graded as " slight " and " marked . " the 39 % frequency in the marked infiltration group at the mucosal stage did not change in proportion to invasion into the deeper layers . the 5-year survival rate was 60.4 % in patients with marked infiltration and 38.8 % in those with slight infiltration , which was statistically different ( p less than 0.01 ) . the difference in survival rates was only statistically significant in those with cancer emerging from the serosa ( p less than 0.001 ) . there was a similar incidence of lymph node metastasis between the marked and slight infiltration groups in each grade of tumor invasion . however , marked infiltration of dendritic cells prevented widespread nodal involvement beyond the primary node in cases of advanced carcinoma ( p less than 0.05 ) . these findings indicate that infiltrating dendritic cells do not prevent the spread of tumor invasion but do prevent nodal involvement ; therefore , for patients with a gastric cancer emerging from the serosa , the prognosis will be good . 
changes in gastric mucosa that antedate gastric carcinoma . endoscopic biopsy specimens of the gastric mucosa from 13 patients who were found at follow-up examination to have gastric carcinoma were compared for abnormal histologic features , type of intestinal metaplasia , and presence of immunoreactive carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) , with specimens from 40 tumor-free controls . villus-like changes and angular infolding , cytologic nuclear pleomorphism , distinct nuclear border , irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane , irregular chromatin clumping , prominent nucleoli , and distinct nucleoli were manifestations of the carcinoma group . angular infolding , distinct nuclear border , irregular thickness of the nuclear membrane , and distinct nucleoli were also observed in the latent stage before detection of carcinoma . the individual features , however , lacked specificity . histochemically , a iib subtype of intestinal metaplasia , and immunoreactive cea in the cytoplasm of foveolar epithelium appeared exclusively in the patients with carcinoma . these findings indicate that the gastric epithelium of patients with gastric carcinoma tends to be morphologically and histochemically abnormal even before the recognition of classical dysplasia . this can be described as abnormal epithelium and is believed to provide the soil on which gastric carcinoma develops . 
intraoral adenoid cystic carcinoma . the presence of perineural spread in relation to site , size , local extension , and metastatic spread in 22 cases . twenty-two patients with an intraoral adenoid cystic carcinoma ( acc ) , initially treated by surgery with or without postoperative radiotherapy , were examined for the presence of perineural spread in relation to primary site , size , local extension , histologic status of the surgical margins , and metastatic spread of the tumor . there seems to be no correlation between perineural spread and the primary site or size of the tumor . however , perineural spread occurred more often in tumors with local extension and in cases with surgical margins with positive results . there seems to be no statistically significant correlation between perineural invasion and distant metastatic disease . 
predicting distant metastases in operable breast cancer patients . risk factors for distant metastases following mastectomy and axillary node dissection for breast cancer were analyzed in a review of 1022 women . from diagnosis until the end of the adjuvant treatment , six stages were identified that corresponded well to patient data acquisition . at each stage , a prognosis study based on the cox model was carried out using all acquired information from the first stage . the results demonstrated that tumor size , nuclear pleomorphism , mitotic index , and nodal status at the top of axilla were stable independent risk factors in predicting metastasis-free survival ( mfs ) . these analyses also revealed those factors that were significantly related to mfs at one or several stages and losing their significance at a subsequent stage . this was the case with clinical node status , age , and vascular tumor emboli . other factors such as estrogen , progesterone , histologic grade , and clinical stage were never identified as independent factors at any stage . the four major stable risk factors were used to define a stratification of reference . the results demonstrated that the mere knowledge of clinical information such as tumor size , clinical node status , and age would enable 51 % of the patients to be universally well classified according to that stratification . knowledge of additional factors , such as nuclear pleomorphism and mitotic index , would bring the rate up to 61 % , and then to 64 % if supplementary information such as vascular tumor emboli were acquired . these percentages did not appear high enough to claim that the physician may make a reliable prognosis of operable breast cancer patients before acquiring information from the axillary node dissection . however , it was proven that there exist some subsets of patients with stable prognosis , i.e. , subsets of patients who will belong permanently to the same risk group through the stages . 
familial occurrence of gastric cancer in the 2-year experience of a population-based registry . the authors studied the familial occurrence of tumors in 154 individuals with gastric cancer by reviewing the clinical data and the genealogical tree of all patients registered in 1986 through 1987 in the local health care district of modena , italy , for cancer of the stomach . crude and age-adjusted ( world population ) incidence rates of gastric cancer were 34.0 and 21.4 new cases/100 ,000 / year , respectively , in men , and 24.5 and 10.9 in women , respectively . among first-degree relatives of the registered patients there were 30 cases of gastric carcinoma versus 15 cases in a control group matched for age and sex ( mantel-haenszel odds ratio [ m-h or ] 3.14 , p less than 0.01 ) . this excess of gastric neoplasms was observed in siblings ( 17 versus 7 , m-h or 4.33 , p less than 0.02 ) but not in parents ( 13 versus 8 , not significant ) . besides gastric cancer , there was no significant excess of other type of tumors in case families . the familial occurrence of gastric cancer tended to be more frequent in patients with " diffuse " carcinoma ( 52 % ) than in subjects with " intestinal " cancer ( 33 % ) , although the difference was not statistically significant . in conclusion , the current investigation suggests that a " family history " for gastric neoplasms is usually observed in approximately 10 % to 15 % of the registered cases . as already described for other common malignancies , therefore , the familial occurrence of gastric carcinoma suggests the existence of a genetic susceptibility to cancer of the stomach , at least in a fraction of these patients . 
the prophylactic use of octreotide in a patient with ovarian carcinoid and valvular heart disease . this case report describes the use of octreotide , a long-acting somatostatin analogue , in the management of a patient with an ovarian carcinoid tumour and severe cardiac valvular disease . this patient underwent laparotomy and tumour resection without complication . anaesthesia was induced with midazolam , fentanyl , and vecuronium , and maintained with isoflurane as well as additional fentanyl and vecuronium . however , we feel that it was the use of octreotide that prevented a life-threatening crisis intraoperatively , and recommend its use in patients with carcinoid syndrome undergoing anaesthesia and surgery . 
elevated serum bromide concentrations following repeated halothane anaesthesia in a child . a 20-month-old child received 25 brief halothane general anaesthetics over a five-week period to allow cranial irradiation treatments for a posterior fossa ependymoma . personality change during the last week of the treatment protocol raised the question of possible bromide intoxication . serum bromide concentrations , using a gold chloride assay technique , were monitored at that time , and at four - and six-week intervals thereafter . serum bromide concentrations demonstrated a four-fold change during this period ranging from peak levels of 2.2 meq.l-1 ( 176 micrograms.kg-1 ) during the fifth week of treatment decreasing to less than 0.5 meq.l-1 ( less than 40 micrograms.ml-1 ) six weeks following the end of treatments . this demonstrates the possibility for repetitive , short halothane exposures to result in elevations of serum bromide and the potential of bromide intoxication in paediatric neuro-oncology patients . 
the presence of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) in solitary adult laryngeal papillomas demonstrated by in-situ dna hybridization with sulphonated probes . human papilloma virus ( hpv ) types 6 and 11 have been repeatedly demonstrated in multiple laryngeal papillomas , and there is little doubt that these lesions are caused by hpv . it has been clearly demonstrated in recent reports that the clinical course of solitary adult onset laryngeal papillomas is entirely different from that of multiple papillomas of juvenile as well as of adult onset . we here report the presence of hpv types 6 and 11 in 19 out of 20 solitary papillomas from 16 patients , while hpv types 16 and 18 were totally absent . we conclude that the milder clinical course in such patients is most likely to be due to host factors , rather than to viral factors . 
chondrosarcoma complicating total hip arthroplasty in maffucci 's syndrome . a 70-year-old woman who was followed for 60 years for maffucci 's syndrome required a total hip arthroplasty ( tha ) of the right hip for degenerative arthritis . this did not relieve pain . three years later , chondrosarcoma of the femur developed around the femoral component and was fatal . the roentgenographic changes after the tha were incorrectly interpreted as being caused by infection . 
treatment of manifest and impending pathologic fractures of the femoral neck by cemented hemiarthroplasty . thirty-four patients with manifest or impending pathologic fractures of the femoral neck were treated between 1971 and 1987 . breast carcinoma was the primary tumor in the majority of patients . all patients were treated with cemented hemiarthroplasty . twenty-seven patients ( 79 % ) could walk at an average of nine days postoperatively . all patients experienced relief of pain . two superficial wound dehiscences , one loosening of the prosthesis , and two prosthetic dislocations were encountered . mean survival was 17.6 months overall ( 12 months for manifest fractures and 40 months for impending fractures ) . these results indicate that cemented hemiarthroplasty for pathologic fractures is a safe procedure resulting in long-lasting palliation without necessitating postoperative irradiation . the importance of tumor excochleation and the advantages of bone cement are emphasized . 
complications associated with limb salvage for extremity sarcomas and their management . a retrospective clinical review of 100 consecutive patients with extremity sarcomas managed by limb salvage operations was performed to evaluate local tumor control and morbidity . the mean follow-up period was 45.1 months . overall survival was 86 % . there were local recurrences in 3 % of patients , and 26 complications in 22 patients . wound necrosis was the most frequent complication . failure of allogeneic bone graft operations occurred in 25 patients . most of the complications were salvageable without loss of limb . limb salvage is an acceptable surgical treatment of extremity sarcomas based on adequate local control and minimal morbidity . 
leiomyoma of a digital artery . benign , soft-tissue masses of the hand are common . a vascular leiomyoma is an unusual tumor of smooth-muscle origin . in a 62-year-old man , the tumor arose from within a digital artery . persistent symptoms prompted an excisional biopsy , requiring resection of a portion of the artery . adequate collateral circulation preempted the need for a vascular graft . vascular repair or grafting may be necessary if collateral circulation is not adequate . 
posterior nuchal cystic hygroma [ published erratum appears in clin perinatol 1990 dec ; 17 ( 4 ) : viii ] when cystic hygroma is detected antenatally , the prognosis is usually poor , and intrauterine or neonatal death are common . this seems especially true for turner syndrome ( the largest etiologic group associated with cystic hygroma ) and the lethal multiple pterygium syndromes . however , some fetuses with turner syndrome , and also with certain other diagnoses , had a good outcome , and further study of these conditions is required before more definite prognostic indicators and risk figures will be available . increasing numbers of syndromes are being reported in association with fetal cystic hygroma , and lymphedema may be a common element in their pathogenesis . mild , short-lived , or otherwise uncomplicated jugular lymphatic obstruction may be a cause of the neck webbing seen in the noonan , familial pterygium colli , and distichiasis-lymphedema syndromes . with earlier and more widespread fetal ultrasonography , and more sensitive techniques , a greater number of resolving fetal cases may be reported . this may clarify the natural history and provide prospective criteria for the conditions that have better prognoses . the associated conditions include autosomal dominant and recessive genetic traits . careful ultrasound study for other malformations , polyhydramnios and fetal growth parameters , a fetal karyotype , and , if appropriate , pathologic examination are required to determine the etiology and recurrence risk . the parents should be asked about exposure to alcohol or other agents and should be examined for signs of pterygium colli or noonan syndrome . if the decision is made to continue the pregnancy , and there is doubt about the natural history and prognosis , multi-disciplinary supervision should include social services , neonatology , pediatric surgery , cardiology , and genetics specialties when indicated . 
subpleural mononuclear cell infiltration . significance in the differential diagnosis of pleuritis showing nonspecific histologic findings . to determine if patients who had lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion and a pleural biopsy without any specific findings could be histopathologically differentiated between those with tuberculous and nontuberculous pleuritis , we histologically re-evaluated the pleural biopsies of all patients whose pleural effusion was predominant with lymphocytes and contained no malignant cells . a total of 40 patients with a nonspecific histologic findings of pleural biopsy specimen were categorized based on their ultimate diagnosis as having tuberculous ( n = 15 ) , carcinomatous ( n = 10 ) or nontuberculous , benign pleuritis ( n = 15 ) . the pleural biopsy specimen of patients with nontuberculous , benign pleuritis frequently showed a band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate ( 10 out of 15 patients ) , while the same finding was infrequent in those with tuberculous pleuritis ( 0 out of 15 , p = 0.0001 ) and pleuritis associated with carcinoma ( three out of 10 , p = 0.082 ) . based on these results , the presence of band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate in pleural biopsy specimens of patients with lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion suggests that the pleuritis is nontuberculous in its nature . 
feasibility of intraoperative cytodiagnosis of lung cancer . of 354 thoracotomies , 114 cases involved intraoperative cytopathologic evaluation . the study included 86 men and 28 women , and 184 specimens were examined . smears were taken from the lung lesion or lymph node and the chest wall or bronchial stump by imprint or needle aspiration . intraoperative evaluations were compared with histologic findings . in 85 cases not diagnosed as malignant preoperatively , malignancy was confirmed in 97.6 percent of cases and histologic type in 71.8 percent . in the 28 cases diagnosed as malignant preoperatively , there was only one false-negative . the most important finding during thoracotomy is whether a lesion is malignant or not . the time required to obtain a pathologic diagnosis also is important . we are able to obtain the results of a cytologic diagnosis within 10 min . cytologic diagnosis of malignancy during thoractomy may be a feasible and convenient method of diagnosis , especially where malignancy is suspected . 
concentration of tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor ( tati ) in pleural effusions . we measured the concentration of tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor ( tati ) in plasma and pleural fluid of 84 patients with pleural effusions of various causes . we observed elevated ( greater than 30 micrograms/l ) tati levels in pleural fluid in 45 percent of patients with pleural effusion associated with malignant disease and in 15 percent of patients with benign disease . similar results were obtained for tati in plasma . the concentration of tati in pleural fluid closely parallelled that in plasma . in patients with renal insufficiency and in patients with biliary obstruction , the tati levels were elevated both in plasma and pleural fluid . a positive correlation was seen between the concentration of tati and the activity of alkaline phosphatase in plasma . the results show that simultaneous determination of tati in plasma and pleural fluid improves the diagnosis of cancer only marginally . our results also support the hypothesis that elevated tati levels may reflect an acute phase reaction caused by inflammatory disease or tissue destruction associated with cancer not only in inflammatory conditions , but also in malignant disease where the tumor itself is not producing tati . 
determinants of cell type in patients with cancer of the lungs . in order to evaluate the determinants of cell type in patients with primary lung cancer , we compared smoking characteristics in 1,939 patients ( 1,474 men and 465 women ) . patients with squamous cell carcinomas , adenocarcinomas , or small-cell carcinomas were eligible . this study did not consider smoking as a risk factor for lung cancer , as all subjects had a confirmed diagnosis . we were interested in smoking history and the pattern of smoking among those whose risk was 100 percent . among these patients , we confirmed that a larger subset of nonsmoking individuals developed adenocarcinomas than squamous cell or small-cell carcinomas ; however , the duration and intensity of cigarette smoking , as measured by pack-years , were not determinants of tumor cell type in male patients . small-cell carcinomas in women were more strongly associated with cigarette smoking than either squamous cell carcinomas or adenocarcinomas . more than 3,500 different substances have been measured in tobacco smoke , including tumor initiators , promoters , and those involved in tumor progression . these data confirm the hypothesis that factors other than cigarette smoking are more likely to be involved in the initiation of adenocarcinomas than other cell types . endogenous and exogenous factors related to gender may be more important than the duration or intensity of cigarette smoking . 
pulmonary malignant angioendotheliomatosis . presentation with fever and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone . a 64-year-old man presented with protracted fever , hyponatremia , and mononeuritis multiplex . inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion was established . the absence of pulmonary infiltrates precluded any lung biopsy . autopsy revealed malignant angioendotheliomatosis involving multiple organs including the alveolar septa and pulmonary vasculature . an early diagnosis of mae in the setting of fever and siadh may be possible via transbronchial biopsy . 
a case of massive true thymic hyperplasia with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . a case of massive true thymic hyperplasia with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the mediastinum is reported in a 14-year-old boy . computed tomographic scan of the chest showed a mass of the anterior mediastinum and conspicuous swelling of the lymph nodes in the upper and lower mediastinum . they were grossly resected . the tumor of the anterior mediastinum was histologically diagnosed as true thymic hyperplasia . all of the mediastinal lymph nodes were diagnosed as non-hodgkin 's lymphoma , diffuse , mixed small and large cell type . 
urogenital dysfunction after abdominoperineal resection for carcinoma of the rectum . the long-term urogenital dysfunctions in 46 of 104 surviving patients submitted to abdominoperineal resection for rectal carcinoma between 1972 and 1986 were collected and assessed . urinary retention was present in 41 percent of the men and 35 percent of women , while incontinence was present in 10 percent of men and 29 percent of women . impotence was reported by 59 percent of the males , all sexually active before surgery . dyspareunia was present in 50 percent of the women in the study . the possibility of treating prostatic hypertrophy concurrently with abdominoperineal resection in selected cases to avoid urinary retention is discussed . the limited number of responders to the survey may interfere with the global statistical significance . 
a critical review of chemical lymph node clearance and staging of colon and rectal cancer at ferguson hospital , 1977 to 1982 a unique opportunity to evaluate the method of chemical lymph node clearance for colorectal cancer exists at ferguson hospital . lymph node clearance has been used at the institution since 1977 , and this retrospective analysis was undertaken to ascertain its validity there . furthermore , the node positive group was evaluated to ascertain if the current staging system ( turnbull , 1967 ) is prognostically accurate for the dukes ' c group . specifically evaluated for possible prognostic variance was the survival of those patients whose tumors demonstrated partial bowel wall penetration and only one to four positive nodes , a " c1 subset , " previously reported to have favorable prognosis . eight hundred sixty-four cases of colon and rectal cancer treated surgically from 1977 to 1982 were analyzed . there was a mean of 27 lymph nodes retrieved per specimen and a mean of 4.5 positive nodes per dukes ' c specimen . there were 43 c1 and 201 c2 cases with five-year survival rates of 73 and 38 percent , respectively . the results of chemical clearance at ferguson hospital were found to be comparable with that of other centers using chemical clearance and superior to hand dissection . the c1 subset clearly is noted to have prognostic advantage and should occupy a separate designation in any staging system . 
colonoscopic screening of asymptomatic patients with a family history of colon cancer . the records of 201 asymptomatic patients who underwent colonoscopy based solely on a family history of colon cancer were reviewed . eighty-five patients ( 42 percent ) had a total of 166 lesions . fifty-four ( 27 percent ) patients of the screened population had neoplastic lesions , while 31 ( 15 percent ) patients had nonneoplastic polyps . four carcinomas were found . twenty-five of the patients with polyps ( 29 percent ) had no polyps distal to the splenic flexure ; these proximal polyps ( and two carcinomas ) would have been missed on screening with fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy . nineteen of these 25 patients had polyps smaller than 0.5 cm , which likely would have been missed with contrast enemas . almost one half ( 47 percent ) of all polyps discovered at screening colonoscopy were proximal to the descending colon . only one patient younger than 40 years old had adenomas . the yield of polyps and cancer in patients with familial risk indicates screening colonoscopy should be considered after age 40 . 
survival in patients with large-bowel cancer . a population-based investigation from the melbourne colorectal cancer study . five-year survival data were obtained in 97 percent or 1105 of 1140 new patients with histologically confirmed colorectal adenocarcinoma during a 12-month period in 1981 and 1982 , as part of a large comprehensive population-based study of colorectal cancer incidence , etiology , and survival , the melbourne colorectal cancer study . fifteen percent of patients were dukes ' a stage , 32 percent were dukes ' b , 25 percent were dukes ' c , and 29 percent were dukes ' d. at five years after diagnosis , the observed survival rate was 36 percent and the adjusted rate was 42 percent . dukes ' staging was a highly discriminating factor in survival ( p less than 0.001 ) . survival rates were better in women than in men and better for patients with colon cancer than for patients with rectal cancer . survival by dukes ' staging was not affected by colon subsite or by the tumor being the first and single tumor , metachronous tumor , or synchronous tumor . the survival of younger patients was better for dukes ' stages a , b , and c , and worse for dukes ' d. survival was worse in the presence of bowel perforation in dukes ' c and d stages . within dukes ' d ( incurable cases ) , survival was best in the absence of hepatic metastases , slightly worse when only hepatic metastases were present , and poorest in the presence of both hepatic and extrahepatic metastases . statistical modeling of survival determinants other than staging indicated that cell differentiation had the largest effect ( survival decreasing with poor cell differentiation ) , followed by site ( survival worse for rectal cancer than colon cancer ) , then age ( survival better for younger patients ) , while bowel perforation had the smallest effect on survival . 
endometrioma . an intra-abdominal troublemaker . a ten-year review of intestinal and abdominal wall endometriomas is reported . seven cases of intestinal and two cases of abdominal wall endometriomas are presented . symptoms were varied but a majority had some gynecologic complaint . in this select group of patients , preoperative investigations did not assist in establishing the diagnosis . all patients underwent surgery and coexisting inflammatory bowel disease was present in two patients . this review suggests that endometrioma of the intestine requires a high index of suspicion for diagnosis and that danazol does not appear to be effective treatment for these patients . 
colonic lipoma as a source of massive hemorrhage . report of a case . colonic lipomas are a rare source of massive lower gastrointestinal bleeding requiring operative intervention . a case of massive hemorrhage from cecal lipomatosis is presented . the methods of preoperative diagnosis and treatment are discussed . 
malignant potential of juvenile polyposis coli . report of a case and review of the literature . juvenile polyps of the colon and rectum traditionally have been viewed as being benign inflammatory or harmartomatous lesions without potential for malignant change . the authors report a case of adenocarcinoma developing in a patient with sporadic juvenile polyposis . juvenile polyposis was diagnosed in the patient at age 4 years . he underwent subtotal colectomy at age 6 years . at age 12 , he underwent a proctectomy and a swenson pull-through because of adenomatous changes in the rectal stump . at age 19 surveillance endoscopy revealed invasive cancer in a juvenile polyp . 
early gastric cancer . endoscopic diagnosis of depth of invasion . in order to decide on a treatment strategy against gastric cancers , an accurate preoperative evaluation of the depth of cancer invasion is essential . preoperative endoscopic diagnosis of the depth of invasion was compared with pathological results of the resected specimen in 206 early gastric cancers and 32 early-like advanced gastric cancers . the endoscopic distinction between early and early-like advanced cancers was correctly made in 83.6 % of the cases . among the early gastric cancers , mucosal and submucosal invasion was correctly presumed in 71.9 % of the cases . when the tumor was an elevated type , or located in the antrum , the endoscopic diagnosis tended to be deeper than the true depth . the size of tumor contributed little to the depth diagnosis . pathomorphological changes on the tips of converging folds were the important clue for diagnosing depth . 
cholecystokinin stimulates growth of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma sw-1990 . the effect of a synthetic analogue of cck ( thr4,nle7cck-9 ) on growth of sw-1990 human pancreatic cancer was examined in two experimental models . nude mice bearing sw-1990 pancreatic cancer xenografts were injected with cck ( 5 , 15 , or 25 micrograms/kg ) or vehicle twice daily for 20 days . animals were then sacrificed and tumor volume , weight , protein , and deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) content were evaluated . sw-1990 cells were grown in vitro and the effects of cck , secretin , vasoactive intestinal peptide ( vip ) , and proglumide ( a cck-receptor antagonist ) on cell number and dna synthesis were determined . the highest dose of cck , 25 micrograms/kg , significantly increased tumor weight , protein content , and dna content ( p less than 0.005 ) . in vitro , cck caused significant increases in cell counts of up to 47 % at six days and 66 % at 12 days compared to control . graded concentrations of cck had a biphasic effect on dna synthesis with significant increases of up to 65 % ( p less than 0.005 ) . cck-induced cell proliferation was inhibited by proglumide . secretin slightly increased cancer cell growth , although not as potently as cck , vip or secretin in combination with cck did not show potentiation . these results indicate that growth of some human pancreatic cancers may be influenced by gastrointestinal peptides , of which cck is the most potent . 
improved scintigraphic assessment of severe cholestasis with the hepatic extraction fraction . in previous studies , we found that biliary scintigraphy with technetium-99m-labeled iminodiacetic acid ( [ 99mtc ] ida ) provided excellent discrimination between intrahepatic and extrahepatic cholestasis , except in patients with profound cholestasis who had poor visualization of the biliary tree . in this study , we have used deconvolution analysis to determine the hepatic extraction fraction ( hef ) of a hypothetical single circulatory pass of [ 99mtc ] ida . our hypothesis was that extraction of radionuclide from the blood would be normal in patients with extrahepatic obstruction alone , but would be impaired in patients with intrahepatic disease ( ihd ) . the purpose of this study was to compare the hef in patients with profound cholestasis ( bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl ) due to either ihd or common bile duct obstruction ( cbdo ) . normal subjects ( n = 13 ) had an hef of 100 % . patients with cbdo ( n = 13 ) had slightly reduced hef values ( 92.8 + / - 3.2 % ) despite profound hyperbilirubinemia ( 6.1 + / - 1.0 mg/dl ) . patients with ihd ( n = 23 ) had a markedly reduced hef ( 43.1 + / - 4.1 % ) which was significantly lower than patients with cbdo and normal subjects ( p less than 0.001 ) . we conclude that the determination of the hef during biliary scintigraphy is helpful in distinguishing between intrahepatic and extrahepatic disease in patients with hyperbilirubinemia ( bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl ) . 
prospective study of alcohol intake and large bowel cancer . the alcohol intake of a cohort of japanese men in hawaii is directly and significantly related to the risk of developing rectal cancer , whether assessed on the basis of amount consumed or as a percent of total calories . wine and whiskey are directly related to rectal cancer , but beer is the only alcoholic beverage that displays a statistically significant dose-response ( p = 0.008 ) . colon cancer risk also is related directly to alcohol intake , but the association is statistically significant only when measured as a percent of energy intake . this suggests that alcohol might displace cancer inhibitors from the diet . calcium , vitamin c , and dietary fiber are inversely related to colon cancer risk in this cohort , and each of these micronutrients displays statistically significant negative correlation with alcohol intake . a possible positive association between alcohol and lung cancer was ruled out after adjusting for cigarette smoking . cancers of the prostate and stomach were unrelated to alcohol intake , but the risk of acquiring cancer at all other sites combined was strongly related to alcohol intake . 
diagnosis of metastatic lesions to the stomach by salvage cytology . a report of three cases . secondary neoplasms of the stomach are rare and are often clinical and diagnostic problems . three patients with bleeding " volcano-like " ulcers were diagnosed by combined endoscopic " salvage " cytology and surgical biopsy as having metastatic submucosal lesions from hematologic spread . the combination of endoscopic appearance , clinical findings , and tissue and cytologic examination can lead to the correct diagnosis . the results from these cases support the utility of this cytologic technique in combination with biopsy in this clinical setting . 
primary non-hodgkin 's t-cell lymphoma of the esophagus . a case with peculiar endoscopic ultrasonographic pattern . we report a case of primary esophageal non-hodgkin 's t-cell lymphoma in a young white female . at admission , endoscopy revealed large , irregularly shaped , esophageal ulcerations with super imposed candidiasis . endoscopic ultrasonography to assess submucosal alterations and periesophageal involvement revealed a diffuse hypoechogenic thickening ( up to 5 mm ) of the esophageal wall , a pattern consistent with lymphomatous infiltration . definitive diagnosis was made with the aid of histology and immunohistochemistry . 
anionic complex-carbohydrate units of human thyroglobulin . human thyroglobulin ( htg ) contains sulfate in chondroitin 6-sulfate chains and in complex carbohydrates . in this study the sulfate-containing complex carbohydrates were characterized by the number of sulfate and sialic acid residues that they contain . samples of normal and nodular thyroid tissue were incubated for 16 h in [ 35s ] sulfate-containing medium , and htg was purified from the tissues and the media . complex carbohydrates were enzymatically removed from htg . subsequent analysis on an hplc anion exchange column at ph 2.2 separated the carbohydrate units according to their number of negative charges . sulfate-containing peaks were monitored by radioactivity , and sialic acid-containing peaks were identified by their shift to lower charge after treatment with neuraminidase . peaks corresponding to sialic acid-free carbohydrate units with one to four sulfates were identified . also , carbohydrate units with two and three negative charges containing both sulfate and sialic acid were present . in the nodular tissue of one patient there were more sulfated units with higher charge , especially units containing sialic acid . in this patient the proportion of sulfated polyvalent units with sialic acid was 22.4 % for normal and 64.6 % for nodular tissue . no difference in the composition of the charged units between the tissues and their corresponding media was seen , making it unlikely that the sulfate-containing carbohydrates play a role in htg release . it is concluded that htg contains complex carbohydrate units with up to four sulfate groups and units with both sulfate and sialic acid . in some patients , the sulfate-containing anionic carbohydrate units of htg from normal and nodular thyroid tissue are different . 
hormonal treatment of functional ovarian cysts : a randomized , prospective study . estrogen ( e ) / progestin therapy for functional ovarian cysts is widely used in clinical practice , but the efficacy of this treatment has not been determined in controlled trials . in this study , we examined the effect of e/progestin administration in a group of infertility patients enrolled in a program of ovulation induction who had cysts identified by transvaginal sonography . patients were randomized to receive either norethindrone 1 mg/mestranol 0.05 mg/d ( group a , n = 24 ) or no treatment ( group b , n = 24 ) for up to 6 weeks . patients were re-evaluated by sonography at 3 , 6 , and 9 weeks after entry into the protocol . the ages , mean cyst diameters , and proportions of patients having received gonadotropins in the previous menstrual cycle were not significantly different among the two groups . all patients who had a sonographic abnormality persisting for 9 weeks were surgically explored and found to have pathological cysts . the rate of disappearance of functional ovarian cysts was not affected by e/progestin treatment . 
multiple hormone elevations in zollinger-ellison syndrome . prospective study of clinical significance and of the development of a second symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome . in the present study of 45 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome , the frequency and clinical importance of the release of multiple gastrointestinal peptides were assessed prospectively . during an initial evaluation , extent of gastrinoma , clinical symptoms , disease duration , and presence or absence of multiple endocrine neoplasia , type i ( men-i ) were assessed . all patients had determinations of fasting plasma gastrin , human pancreatic polypeptide , motilin , neurotensin , and somatostatin ; 35 had determinations of insulin and gastrin-releasing peptide and 21 had determinations of glucagon . a plasma elevation of additional peptides besides gastrin was detected in 62 % , with 44 % having one , 18 % having two , and 0 % having three additional peptides elevated . motilin was elevated in 29 % , human pancreatic polypeptide in 27 % , neurotensin in 20 % , and gastrin-releasing peptide in 10 % , whereas insulin , glucagon , and somatostatin were not elevated in any patient . the presence or absence of elevation of any peptide did not differ in patients with or without men-i , with gastrinoma size , with the presence or absence of metastatic disease , or with various clinical symptoms . patients were assessed yearly for clinical evidence of a secondary symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome with a median follow-up of 146 and 84 months from onset or diagnosis , respectively . only one patient ( 2 % of patients ) developed a second syndrome ( rate , 2 patients per 100 patients observed for 10 years ) . these results demonstrate that the plasma elevation of multiple gastrointestinal peptides is common in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ; however , the rate of developing a second symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome is much lower than generally believed . furthermore , no evidence is found to support the conclusions that the detection of the plasma elevation of these peptides is clinically important in assessing men-i status , disease extent , or presence of metastatic disease or that elevated levels of motilin , neurotensin , gastrin-releasing peptide , or human pancreatic peptide are associated with any distinct clinical symptoms . therefore , we recommend that plasma concentrations of these additional gastrointestinal peptides should not be assessed routinely but rather only if new symptoms develop . 
detection of duodenal gastrinomas by operative endoscopic transillumination . a prospective study . the ability of operative endoscopic transillumination of the bowel wall to detect duodenal gastrinoma was evaluated prospectively in 26 patients with the zollinger-ellison syndrome . the results were assessed by exploratory laparotomy and compared with the results of other localization techniques . twelve duodenal gastrinomas were resected from 10 patients . operative endoscopic transillumination detected 10 of the 12 gastrinomas , a sensitivity of 83 % , which was significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) than that for either preoperative imaging ( 25 % ) or intraoperative ultrasonography and palpation ( 42 % ) . the sensitivity of operative endoscopic transillumination was a result of the ability to detect focal areas that did not transilluminate on the serosal side of the duodenum , and not the mucosal appearances seen through the endoscope , which were not helpful . operative endoscopic transillumination detected gastrinomas less than 1 cm in diameter throughout the duodenum . of the patients in this study , 39 % had duodenal gastrinomas , a greater frequency than previously reported . these results indicate that operative endoscopic transillumination is the most sensitive technique yet described for detecting duodenal gastrinomas and should be performed routinely in all patients with the zollinger-ellison syndrome who undergo exploratory laparotomy for cure . 
liver fatty acid-binding protein : a marker for studying cellular differentiation in gut epithelial neoplasms . human liver fatty acid binding protein is a 127 residue cytoplasmic protein synthesized in liver and in the intestinal epithelium . previous studies of normal and transgenic mice indicated that the liver fatty acid-binding protein gene is a sensitive marker of enterocytic differentiation . this study shows the use of immunohistochemical methods to examine liver fatty acid-binding protein gene expression in normal human colonic epithelium , colonic villoglandular adenomas , nonmucinous and mucinous adenocarcinomas , and several types of noncolonic epithelial neoplasms . cells containing liver fatty acid-binding protein were found in normal colonic epithelium , in two thirds of colorectal villoglandular adenomas and nonmucinous adenocarcinomas , and in one third of mucinous adenocarcinomas but not in noncolonic , nonhepatic carcinomas . all liver fatty acid-binding protein-positive colonic adenomas and adenocarcinomas contained patches of immunoreactive cells distributed among histologically identical patches of cells without liver fatty acid-binding protein immunoreactivity . this " mosaicism " was also found in metastases from liver fatty acid-binding protein-positive colonic adenocarcinomas . immunostaining of these liver fatty acid-binding protein-positive tissues for carcinoembryonic antigen did not show a mosaic cellular pattern in its expression . these data suggest that within a given neoplasm , differences exist in the differentiation programs of monoclonally-derived , malignant colonic epithelial cells and that liver fatty acid-binding protein is a useful marker for operationally defining these subpopulations . liver fatty acid-binding protein is also a potentially useful diagnostic marker for colorectal and hepatic carcinomas . 
caseating hepatic granulomas in hodgkin 's lymphoma . a 68-year-old man presented with recurrent hodgkin 's lymphoma after a 9-year disease-free interval induced by chemotherapy . in addition to histological evidence of recurrent hodgkin 's disease , the liver biopsy specimen showed extensive caseating granulomas . cultures of bone marrow and liver tissue tested negative for mycobacterium tuberculosis . no antituberculous treatment was administered , and the patient had an excellent clinical response to additional chemotherapy for lymphoma . hodgkin 's lymphoma should be added to the list of disease entities associated with caseating granulomas in the liver . 
colonic lipomas : outcome of endoscopic removal . colonic lipomas are benign adipose tumors which are usually submucosal . with the increase in the number of endoscopic procedures being performed , these tumors are often detected incidentally at colonoscopy . although the risks of removing these tumors have been recognized , numerous reports have documented safe removal by snare electrocautery . we have reviewed the clinical outcome and the endoscopic and histopathologic features of seven lipomas that were endoscopically removed over a 5-year period . four patients recovered uneventfully , while three patients ( 42.8 % ) developed colonic perforation after the polypectomy . in the latter group , the lipomas were significantly larger than they were in the patients who did not develop colonic perforation ( 1.9 + / - 0.4 and 4.2 + / - 0.7 cm , respectively ; p = 0.048 ) . furthermore , the polypectomy specimens from those patients who developed perforation all contained significant muscularis propria . lipomatous polyps that are identified at endoscopy to be greater than or equal to 2 cm in diameter and to have a limited pedicle are at the greatest risk for endoscopic perforation . 
expandable biliary metal stents for malignancies : endoscopic insertion and diathermic cleaning for tumor ingrowth . seventeen patients with malignant biliary strictures have been treated by endoscopic insertion of self-expandable metallic prostheses . two patients received two prostheses inserted simultaneously in both the left and right hepatic ducts for klatskin tumor type iii . immediate results were satisfactory despite an operative mortality of 18 % , and neither early nor late clogging was observed even in patients who presented previously with sludge above plastic stents that were removed . however , among five patients followed for more than 4 months , two presented with obstruction due to tumor ingrowth into the stent through the metallic mesh . accordingly , initial enthusiasm concerning long-term patency of these stents has decreased . however , we describe a technique of " diathermic cleaning " of tumor ingrowth which can easily restore the stent patency . the advantages of these wire mesh 30 f stents are their easier insertion , better immediate drainage , and absence of dislocation or perforation . 
performing screening flexible sigmoidoscopy using colonoscopes : experience in 500 subjects . there is still controversy regarding the optimal length of flexible sigmoidoscopes . we performed screening distal colon examinations using 168-cm colonoscopes in 500 asymptomatic subjects who were unsedated and had sigmoidoscopy cleansing preparation . the mean depth of penetration was 66 cm and was similar in persons in whom the examination was discontinued because of poor preparation versus those with discomfort . polyps were detected in 87 patients , but only 5 subjects had polyps detected above 60 cm . we conclude that in a group of unsedated subjects scheduled for flexible sigmoidoscopy after a sigmoidoscopy prep , the use of instruments longer than 60 cm gives very little additional yield . 
hormonal and enzymatic parameters of hepatic regeneration in patients undergoing major liver resections . thirteen patients who underwent 40 % to 80 % removal of their livers had blood samples drawn initially and daily on postoperative days 1 to 7 . the enzyme marker of heightened polyamine metabolism , ornithine decarboxylase , and the indicator of dna synthesis , thymidine kinase , were measured . in addition , the hormones ( insulin , glucagon , estradiol and androgen ) , which in animals are known to reflect and possibly modulate regeneration , were measured . changes in all these indices followed the same pattern as in rats , dogs and swine but at a slower rate . ornithine decarboxylase and estradiol increased within 24 hr , but thymidine kinase and insulin rises did not become statistically significant until 3 to 5 days . using these plasma or serum indices as surrogate measures of biochemical events in the liver itself , regeneration reached a maximum after 4 or 5 days . by computed tomography scan analysis , restoration of hepatic cell mass was not complete until 3 wk . 
pathological observations of intrahepatic peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers . iii . survey of necroinflammation and cystic dilatation . pathological changes and significance of intrahepatic peribiliary glands , hitherto poorly recognized intrahepatic elements , have been evaluated in our laboratory . in this report , we surveyed necroinflammatory and cystic changes of the peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers because these two changes coexisted frequently in the same liver . the necroinflammatory change was found in 228 livers ( 22.8 % ) and the cystic change in 202 livers ( 20.2 % ) , and 103 cases showed both changes in the same liver . the necroinflammatory change was frequently found in intrahepatic cholangitis and extrahepatic biliary obstruction with bacterial infection , suggesting that biliary bacterial inflammation extends into these peribilary glands . this change was also frequent in systemic infection or septicemia without biliary bacterial infection , implying that the peribiliary glands were also damaged in such conditions without direct infection . the cystic change was frequent in livers with portal hypertension or obstruction , adult polycystic disease and necroinflammation of the glands , suggesting that the cystic change of the glands could occur as the result of the disturbance of intrahepatic circulation or as the result of inflammatory destruction of the glandular conduits . some of peribiliary cysts may be of congenital origin . dysfunction related to these pathological changes in the glands may diminish seromucous secretion and cause alterations in hepatic bile composition . the cystic change of the glands may retard bile flow by compressing bile duct lumina . 
efficacy of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery . analysis of 149 consecutive studies . to evaluate the usefulness of transesophageal echocardiography as a perioperative monitor in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery , 149 consecutive patients were studied since 1985 . left ventricular function was assessed by measurement of left ventricular dimension and ejection fraction in patients with valvular disease . this monitoring was useful in detecting the changes in left ventricular performance in patients with volume overload and in managing patients in the early postoperative period . cardiac tamponade was clearly demonstrated before changes in electrocardiogram and hemodynamic data . in 27 patients , transesophageal color doppler echocardiography was used to confirm that there was no residual regurgitation immediately after valvular reconstructive surgery . transesophageal color doppler echocardiography was also useful in detecting the entry of false lumen before surgery in 7 patients with dissecting aortic aneurysm . there were no unsuccessful introductions , no traumatic or thermal injuries , 18 patients ( 12.1 % ) with hoarseness and 5 patients ( 3.4 % ) with transient arrhythmia . in conclusion , transesophageal echocardiography provides a good imaging window to the heart and great vessels perioperatively . this expedient , safe informative imaging method can be used more routinely in patients during surgery . 
three staged approach to the surgical management of renal cell carcinoma extending into the right atrium . case report . left renal cell carcinoma extending into the right atrium was treated by angioinfarction , removal of right atrial tumour using cardiopulmonary bypass and ten days later abdominal radical nephrectomy and inferior vena cava thrombectomy . twenty four months later the patient remains well with no evidence of tumour recurrence . 
substance-p is present in a subset of thyrotrophs in the human pituitary . substance-p immunoreactivity and tachykinin-like peptides are present in the pituitary gland of several mammalian species . in humans , however , the biochemical nature and cellular localization of pituitary substance-p has not been defined . we report here that substance-p-immunoreactive material is present in low concentrations in both the anterior and posterior lobes of the human pituitary gland . gel chromatography and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography indicate that the majority of the substance-p immunoreactivity in human pituitaries elutes as authentic substance-p and its oxidized derivative . immunohistochemical studies showed substance-p-immunoreactive fibers and terminals in the posterior pituitary gland and occasional substance-p-immunoreactive cell bodies in the anterior lobe . the substance-p-immunoreactive cells were found to colocalize with a small subpopulation of tsh beta-immunoreactive cells ( thyrotrophs ) . substance-p immunoreactivity was also found in a pituitary microadenoma that contained numerous tsh beta-immunoreactive cells . these studies indicate that substance-p is present in the human pituitary gland , and they suggest a relationship between substance-p and thyroid function . 
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic human endocrine tissues . pth-like peptide ( plp ) is produced by tumors commonly associated with hypercalcemia as well as nonneoplastic tissues and several endocrine glands and tumors . to characterize the distribution of plp in human endocrine tissues and tumors , we localized plp in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique with polyclonal antisera . among peptide hormone-producing tissues , plp was identified in nontumorous adenohypophysis and pituitary adenomas ; medullary thyroid carcinomas ; normal , hyperplastic , and adenomatous parathyroids ; adrenal medulla and pheochromocytomas ; normal pancreatic islets ; and endocrine tumors of pancreas , gut , and lung , including small cell carcinomas . in other endocrine tissues plp was identified in nontumorous thyroid follicular epithelium , colloid nodules , and follicular neoplasms ; normal adrenal cortex , adrenocortical adenomas , and carcinomas ; nontumorous testicular leydig cells ; normal ovarian granulosa and thecal cells ; an ovarian thecoma and a granulosa cell tumor ; placental trophoblast ; and decidua . these results demonstrate that plp is localized in many normal and neoplastic endocrine cells , including those not known to influence extracellular calcium homeostasis . the presence of plp in a variety of endocrine tissues suggests that it may play a local physiological role in the growth or function of endocrine cells . 
insulin-like growth factor-ii : possible local growth factor in pheochromocytoma . pheochromocytomas , neural crest tumors , express an abundance of insulin-like growth factor-ii ( igf-ii ) . to assess further the potential for igf-ii to play an autocrine role for these tumors , we measured 1 ) igf-ii content by rra in 7 pheochromocytomas and peripheral blood in these patients , 2 ) igf-ii receptors by western analysis , and 3 ) characterized the tumor binding proteins by ligand blot studies . igf-ii levels in the tumors varied from 2.8-41 micrograms/g . chromatography revealed that 60 % of the peptide eluted as a large mol wt form of igf-ii ( 8.7-10 kda ) ; the remainder coeluted with mature peptide ( 7.5 kda ) . this was in contrast to igf-ii levels in normal adrenal tissue ( 0.225 + / - 0.005 micrograms/g ) or another neural crest-derived tumor , medullary carcinoma of the thyroid ( 0.63 + / - 0.02 micrograms/g ) . serum igf-ii levels in the 7 patients with pheochromocytoma ( 720 + / - 71 ng/ml ) were similar to those in 35 normal controls ( 762 + / - 69 ng/ml ) . radiolabeled igf-ii ( 9 + / - 1 % ) and igf-i ( 20 + / - 2 % ) bound specifically to pheochromocytoma membranes . western analysis of these membranes using a specific antiserum directed against the type ii receptor demonstrated a band at 210 kda . affinity cross-linking studies with [ 125i ] igf-i demonstrated a specific band at 140 kda . ligand blot analysis was performed on the void volume pools from the sephadex g-75 column and demonstrated bands at about 30 and 25 kda . in conclusion , these data 1 ) confirm that pheochromocytomas have increased levels of igf-ii ; 2 ) demonstrate that despite high igf-ii concentrations in the tumors , peripheral levels are not elevated , suggesting that very little tumoral igf-ii is released into the circulation , unlike catecholamines ; 3 ) demonstrate the presence of igf-ii and igf-i receptors ; 4 ) describe binding protein species similar to those present in other tissues . thus , the presence of high levels of igf-ii and both type i and type ii receptors suggests that igf ii may act through both receptors to alter tumor growth . 
insulin-like growth factor-i receptors in nonfunctioning thyroid nodules . we have recently demonstrated the production of insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) as well as the presence of type i igf receptors in human thyroid cells in primary culture . the role of igf-i in the control of thyroid cell growth has been well established . in order to investigate the involvement of igf-i in abnormal thyroid growth , the density of igf-i receptors in solitary , cold , micro - and macro-follicular thyroid adenomas , and in extranodular histological normal tissue was studied . forty-three euthyroid patients with isolated cold nodules were selected for the study . in 30 patients the presence of igf-i receptors was evaluated by using quantitative immunohistochemistry ; in 10 patients by using radioligand binding studies , and in 3 patients by using affinity labeling . cross-linking and binding studies clearly demonstrated the presence of a homogeneous class of binding sites for type i igf receptors . furthermore , radioligand studies did not show any significant differences in receptor density between the 2 types of thyroidal tissues . conversely , the computerized analysis of 900 fields of nodular and normal thyroid tissues immunostained with the monoclonal antibody alpha-ir3 , strongly indicated that higher concentrations of igf-i receptors were present in the epithelial cells of non-functioning thyroid nodules than in the adjacent extranodular thyroid tissues . these studies strongly suggest that the same type i igf receptor is present in thyroid follicular adenomas as in histological normal thyroid tissue removed from the same patient . the higher concentration of igf-i receptors as documented by immunostaining in the adenomas suggests that igf-i may contribute to the abnormal growth of the neoplasms . 
transthyretin receptors on human astrocytoma cells . transthyretin ( ttr ) , a transport protein for t4 and retinol-binding protein , is the principal t4-binding protein of cerebrospinal fluid . its function in regard to the delivery of its ligands and in other respects is unclear . the binding of [ 125i ] ttr to cultured human astrocytoma cells was studied to determine whether these cells carry receptors for ttr . scatchard analysis was consistent with a single class of binding sites with a kd of 3 nm . no significant cross-reactivity with transferrin or serum albumin was observed . internalization of ttr was temperature dependent and proportional to receptor occupancy . dilutions of cerebrospinal fluid displaced [ 125i ] ttr in proportion to their content of radioimmunoassayable ttr and in parallel with purified ttr . the uptake and internalization of ttr increased in the presence of high t4 or t3 concentrations . these results demonstrate that ttr binds to specific high affinity receptors on human astrocytoma cells . receptor binding of ttr provides a potential mechanism for the delivery of its ligands within the central nervous system . 
clinical review 16 : parathyroid hormone-related proteins : coming of age in the 1990s . the last 3 yr have yielded a fertile harvest of new information on the hhm clinical syndrome and on the novel peptide hormone family responsible for the syndrome . whereas the clinical riddle enshrouding the hhm syndrome first posed in the early 1940s appears to have been largely solved , a whole new field , concerning the physiological role ( s ) of pthrp has opened . the field has evolved rapidly and provides an example of fruitful clinical investigation : the original problem was a clinical one ( the hhm syndrome ) ; understanding the clinical disorder led to pursuit of the problem in the laboratory ( adenylate cyclase assays , protein purification , molecular cloning , pthrp synthesis ) ; and observations made in the laboratory have rapidly yielded clinical fruits ( pthrp immunoassays ) and opened a new window on normal physiology . 
clonal origin of pituitary adenomas . as the pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas remains unclear , the tumor clonal composition of these common neoplasms was studied . clonality was determined in female patients by analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphisms of the x-chromosome genes hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase and phosphoglycerate kinase in conjunction with their respective methylation patterns . peripheral lymphocyte dna was screened from 62 female patients undergoing transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma . eleven patients were heterozygous for the bgli site on pgk , 4 for the bamhi site on hprt , and 1 patient for both sites . of these 16 patients , 3 had acromegaly , 4 had cushing 's disease , 7 had hyperprolactinemia , and 2 were clinically nonfunctional . after surgery , morphological study , including immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy of the pathological specimens , allowed a direct comparison between clonality and tumor cell type . control fresh normal pituitary tissue was found to be polyclonal . the following tumors were monoclonal : all 3 somatotroph adenomas , 4 of 4 lactotroph tumors , 3 of 4 corticotroph cell adenomas , a gonadotroph adenoma , and a nonsecretory adenoma . a mixed plurihormonal adenoma was polyclonal , as were 2 tumors consisting of adenomatous lactotrophs interspersed with nontumorous adenohypophyseal pituitary tissue and one corticotroph adenoma mixed with normal pituitary tissue . functional pituitary adenomas derived from somatotrophs , corticotrophs , or lactotrophs and nonsecretory tumors are monoclonal in nature , suggesting that somatic cell mutations precede clonal expansion of these cells and play a major role in pituitary tumorigenesis . 
androgen response to endogenous insulin secretion during the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test in normal and hyperandrogenic women . women with ovarian hyperandrogenism frequently have insulin resistance , whose underlying mechanism remains to be determined . in the present study we have investigated the relationship between insulin sensitivity and the acute effect of endogenous insulin secretion on circulating androgen levels . insulin sensitivity , glucose-mediated insulin release , and glucose/insulin-stimulated androgen responses were determined during a frequently sampled iv glucose tolerance test in a group of 19 women with clinical evidence of polycystic ovary syndrome ( pcos ) and 9 age - and weight-matched controls . insulin ( i ) , glucose , androstenedione , testosterone ( t ) , free t , and dehydroepiandrosterone ( dhea ) levels were measured before and during the 3 h following iv administration of glucose ( 300 mg/kg ) . intravenous tolbutamide ( 300-500 mg ) was injected 20 min after the glucose injection . insulin sensitivity ( si ) was calculated by application of the minimal model of glucose kinetics . fasting androstenedione , t , free t , and i concentrations were significantly higher in the women with pcos than in controls ( p less than 0.02 ) . in pcos subjects , fasting i was correlated with both t ( r = 0.51 ; p less than 0.05 ) and dhea ( r = 0.706 ; p less than 0.01 ) . si was significantly lower in pcos subjects [ si , 68.35 + / - 8.34 min-1 / ( nmol/ml ] than in control subjects ( si , 133.36 + / - 21.7 min-1 / ( nmol/ml ) ] . a significant decline in dhea levels was observed in control subjects 3 h after glucose administration ( from 28.4 + / - 3.0 ; final , 16.2 + / - 2.4 ; p less than 0.02 ) . pcos women with normal insulin sensitivity [ si , greater than 75.0 min-1 / ( nmol/ml ) ] showed a similar fall in dhea ( from 20.3 + / - 2.5 to 12.8 + / - 1.8 nmol/l ; p less than 0.02 ) . no significant change occurred in insulin-resistant pcos subjects [ si , less than 75.0 min-1 / ( nmol/ml ) ] . other androgen levels showed a modest nonsignificant decline during the study in pcos and control groups . these findings confirm the weight-independent insulin resistance of some hyperandrogenic women . the failure of glucose-stimulated endogenous insulin secretion to significantly depress dhea levels in insulin-resistant women with pcos may account in part for their androgen excess . 
growth of cultured human cerebral meningiomas is inhibited by dopaminergic agents . presence of high affinity dopamine-d1 receptors . we have found that microm concentrations of the dopamine agonist bromocriptine significantly decrease the proliferation rate of human meningioma cells in culture ( 25-56 % inhibition ) . this effect was also seen with direct application of dopamine , as well as the dopamine-d1 agonist ( + ) - skf-38393 ( both applied in microm concentrations ) to meningioma cell cultures . receptor studies with the dopamine-d1 ligand ( 125i ) sch-23982 ( dopamine-d1 antagonist ) indicated that dopamine-d1 binding sites were present in the membranes of meningioma tissue . the mean dissociation constant ( kd ) was 325 ( + / - 74.5 sem ) pm and the receptor density ( bmax ) was 25.4 ( + / - 1.5 sem ) fmol/mg pellet protein in 5 human meningiomas . the pharmacological specificity was proven by ( + ) - skf-38393 , ( + / - skf-83566 or ( + ) - butaclamol and their inactive isomers ( - ) - skf-38393 and ( - ) - butaclamol in a 1000 fold excess . these results provide evidence that human meningiomas possess high affinity dopamine-d1 receptors and that dopamine agonists have an antiproliferative effect on these tumors in culture . we conclude that the proliferation of cerebral meningiomas may be under dopaminergic control and that dopamine agonists may have a role in the medical treatment of patients with meningiomas . 
endothelin-like immunoreactivity in human breast cyst fluid . immunoreactive endothelin has been detected in 21 of 43 samples of breast cyst fluid ( 21 cases ; 3.5 + / - 0.6 pmol/l , mean + / - sem . other 22 cases ; not detectable , less than 0.5 pmol/l ) . fast protein liquid chromatographic analysis of the immunoreactive endothelin of pooled breast cyst fluid showed two immunoreactive peaks ; one in the void volume and the other in the position of endothelin-1 . it is probable that endothelin-1 is produced by the epithelial cells lining breast cysts , but significance of the presence of endothelin-1 in breast cyst fluid remains to be elucidated . 
sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled probes for detection of human papillomavirus by in situ hybridisation . the sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled dna probes for the detection of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) by dot blotting and in situ hybridisation was compared in tissues from cervical , laryngeal , and anogenital neoplasia . probes were either labelled with digoxigenin by the random primer technique and detected with anti-digoxigenin antibody , or labelled with biotin by nick translation and detected with streptavidin , both methods having a common final visualisation procedure using alkaline phosphatase . digoxigenin labelled probes proved two to 10-fold more sensitive by quantitative dot blotting and four-fold more sensitive in detecting hpv 16 dna in a series of 31 anal carcinomas , compared with biotinylated probes . the digoxigenin method also produced less non-specific background staining of tissue sections than biotin labelled probes . it is concluded that digoxigenin dna labelling and detection provides a simple , reliable , and efficient alternative to the use of biotin or radioactive isotopes for the detection of hpv dna by in situ hybridisation . digoxigenin labelled probes also offer the possibility of double labelling in situ hybridisation procedures when used with biotin labelled probes to provide simultaneous identification of different dna sequences . 
application of 1 nm gold probes on paraffin wax sections for in situ hybridisation histochemistry . an in situ hybridisation technique that uses 1 nm immunogold reagents and silver enhancement was devised to detect biotinylated dna viral probes in formalin fixed , paraffin wax sections of human cervix . dna probes labelled with biotin-11-deoxyuridine triphosphate were detected after hybridisation to nucleic acid sequences by an antibiotin antibody , followed by a gold labelled secondary antibody . silver enhancement then permitted visualisation of the signal at the light microscopic level . the method was reliable and produced less background staining than previously described methods . the signal could be enhanced by epi polarisation microscopy . furthermore , biotinylated dna probes may be detected directly by a 1 nm gold labelled goat antibiotin antibody without loss of labelling intensity , and this may be preferable to the longer two layer technique , previously described . 
importance of sampling method in dna analysis of lung cancer . lung carcinomas are characterised by considerable histological variation within the tumour . the possible effects of this morphological heterogeneity on the estimation of tumour ploidy were investigated . multiple tissue blocks were systematically taken from 20 lung tumours and analysed by flow cytometry . the routine , archival paraffin wax embedded diagnostic blocks from these cases were also analysed . nineteen ( 95 % ) of the tumours were shown to contain aneuploid stemlines by systematic sampling , but if only one of these systematic tissue blocks had been taken from each case the incidence of dna aneuploidy could have been as low as 45 % . only 15 ( 75 % ) tumours were aneuploid when all the routine archival blocks were analysed , but by specifically selecting tumour areas from the archival material the accuracy of this method was increased to 90 % . it is concluded that tumour sampling methods are of primary importance in assessing the dna content of lung tumours . routine paraffin wax embedded archival tissue provides a suitable source of material for this purpose , provided that " turnover " selection is carried out . 
cells immunoreactive for neuropeptide in human thymomas . the presence of opioid peptides , bombesin , and substance p was investigated by immunohistochemistry in tissue sections from six human thymomas . the number of immunoreactive cells seemed to vary from one case to another . ultrastructural investigation , showing the presence of desmosomes in labelled cells , allowed these cells to be classified as epithelial lineage cells . the occurrence of cells containing neuropeptide in thymomas suggest that peptide molecules could have modulated the behaviour of this tumour , given the reported influence of these molecules on immune functions and their growth promoting activity on several cell types , including mesenchymal and epithelial cells . 
tissue preparation for simultaneous flow cytometric quantitation of tumour associated antigens and dna in solid tumours . a multiparameter flow cytometric assay for the simultaneous study of tumour associated antigens ( taa ) and dna in fresh solid tumours was devised . cell suspensions were prepared by disaggregating unfixed solid tumour samples mechanically over a stainless steel mesh . indirect immunofluorescence was used to identify the taa , and dna was stained with propidium iodide . cell morphology was well preserved , cell clumping was negligible , and high quality indirect immunofluorescence quality indirect immunofluorescence and dna staining were obtained . the technique is simple , rapid , and reproducible . multiparameter assays can be developed to study prognostic indicators such as membrane oncoproteins , receptors , and multidrug resistance in solid tumours . with a suitable panel of antibodies the technique might become an aid in the differential diagnosis and biochemical diagnosis of some solid tumours . 
value of monoclonal anti-myeloperoxidase ( mpo7 ) for diagnosing acute leukaemia . the expression of myeloperoxidase ( mpo ) was studied in 100 cases of acute leukaemia ( 83 with acute myeloid leukaemia ( aml ) and 17 acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( all ) by both a conventional cytochemical method and the immunocytochemical antiperoxidase ( apaap ) technique using the monoclonal antibody mpo7 . in each case the staining was evaluated by light microscopical examination ( percentage of positive cells ) . of the 83 cases of aml , 78 ( 93.9 % ) were positive for mpo7 compared with 70 ( 84.3 % ) by cytochemistry . antibodies against the myeloid markers cd13 and cd33 were positive in 71 ( 85.5 % ) and 70 ( 84.3 % ) cases , respectively . importantly , all cases of all were negative for both mpo7 and cytochemical mpo staining even when they were positive for cd13 and cd33 . these results indicate that the anti-myeloperoxidase antibody mpo7 is the most sensitive and specific reagent for the diagnosis of aml and should therefore be included in routine immunophenotyping panels . 
cutaneous manifestations of postthymic t cell malignancies : description of five clinicopathologic subtypes . this study was undertaken to identify the cutaneous manifestations among different prognostic subgroups of postthymic t cell malignancies . cutaneous involvement was demonstrated in 43 of 88 cases . we recognized five clinicopathologic subtypes : type i , classical cutaneous t cell lymphoma ( ctcl ) or mycosis fungoides , six cases ; type ii , primary large cell type ctcl , ki-1 antigen ( ki-1 + or ki-1 - ) , seven cases ; type iii , primary angioinvasive t cell lymphoma , three cases ; type iv , human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i + ) adult t cell leukemia/lymphoma ( atl ) , eight cases ; type v , secondary cutaneous involvement by peripheral t cell lymphoma ( ptl ) , 19 cases . primary ctcl and atl tend to involve papillary dermis with or without epidermotropism , whereas ptl and angioinvasive t cell lymphoma predominantly affect skin adnexae , vessels , and subcutis . cutaneous lesions in type v ptl are heterogeneous and may be confused with panniculitis , vasculitis , or an eczematous eruption . classic ctcl , ki-1 + lymphoma , and angioinvasive t cell lymphoma have a chronic course , whereas atl , ki-1 - large cell lymphoma , and ptl are clinically aggressive . 
giant eccrine acrospiroma . four cases of large eccrine acrospiroma ( three benign , one malignant ) are reported . the benign tumors involved the lower extremities of two women and one man ( 73 to 89 years of age ) . the duration of the lesions ranged from 10 to 20 years . the malignant tumor involved the left side of the chest of a 60-year-old man . its occurrence in a lesion that had been present for 40 years suggested malignant transformation of a pre-existing benign eccrine acrospiroma . each tumor showed little to no cellular atypia . mitotic rates ( mitotic figures per 10 high-power fields ) varied both between and within lesions . average mitotic rates did not differentiate the benign from the malignant tumors . the most important distinguishing features of large benign eccrine acrospiromas are the relative circumscription , the lack of cellular atypia , and the absence of stromal , perineurial , and angiolymphatic invasion . 
intralesional interferon therapy for basal cell carcinoma . in a clinical trial of 172 patients at four medical centers , interferon alfa-2b ( 1.5 x 10 ( 6 ) iu ) or a placebo was injected directly into biopsy-proved noduloulcerative or superficial basal cell carcinomas three times weekly for 3 weeks , for a cumulative dose of 13.5 million iu . efficacy of treatment was determined at 16 to 20 weeks by examination of biopsy specimens that demonstrated cure of lesions in 86 % of interferon-treated patients and in only 29 % of placebo-treated patients . during the treatment course and follow-up , an initial inflammatory response was observed at the treatment sites , followed by diminished erythema , improvement in overall appearance , and a decrease in size of lesions . side effects of treatment , mainly flu-like symptoms , were usually mild and transient and occurred more commonly in the interferon-treated group . only three patients , all in the interferon-treated group , discontinued therapy because of side effects . one year after initiation of therapy , 81 % of interferon recipients and 20 % of those given the placebo remained tumor free . noduloulcerative and superficial lesions were equally responsive to treatment with interferon . for some patients with noduloulcerative or superficial basal cell carcinomas , intralesional interferon alfa-2b may be an alternative , effective treatment . 
autoimmunity and malignancy . in patients with autoimmune diseases malignancy is observed more frequently than in an age-matched control group . in strains of mice susceptible to autoimmune diseases , the incidence of lymphoreticular malignancies is increased . although viruses have not been directly implicated in their pathogenesis or etiology , there are suggestions that slow viruses may be involved . viruses have been found to be important in the development of lymphomas . hence in genetically susceptible animals , viruses can initiate the autoimmune process . prolonged stimulation of the autoimmune process or a prolonged state of immunodeficiency could trigger or activate genes or their products , which could result in the development of malignancy . 
buschke-loewenstein tumor : verrucous carcinoma of the penis . the buschke-loewenstein tumor is an anogenital tumor of characteristic clinical and histologic pattern best considered as a low-grade , well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma . this remarkable neoplasm and its features are reviewed in detail , stressing salient advances in our understanding of it . 
cutaneous melanoma and bilateral retinoblastoma . we report the case of an otherwise healthy 37-year-old man who had had bilateral enucleation during early childhood for bilateral retinoblastomas , in addition to two cutaneous melanomas ( the first appearing at age 27 years ) . he also had dysplastic melanocytic nevi and a history of cutaneous melanoma in his mother . retinoblastoma may aggregate in families and is associated with dna abnormalities of chromosome 13 . recent reports have emphasized the appearance of second malignancies in retinoblastoma survivors . the second malignancies include osteosarcoma , soft tissue sarcoma , and cutaneous melanoma . cutaneous melanoma also may aggregate in families , usually in the setting of dysplastic melanocytic nevi . the features of this case and of similar reported cases suggest that there may be a greater than expected association between retinoblastoma and cutaneous melanoma . 
multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma : report of a case with anogenital pruritus at presentation . a case of multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma of the perianal skin and vulva in a 79-year-old woman is presented , and the embryologic basis for the multicentricity is discussed . histologically , cloacogenic carcinoma can be differentiated from other small cell neoplasms that affect the area . cloacogenic carcinoma should be considered a rare cause of anogenital pruritus . it is important to perform an early biopsy of anogenital lesions that do not respond to conventional therapy . 
severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption . a severe lidocaine intoxication by cutaneous absorption is described . data are presented to show a significant absorption of lidocaine through diseased skin when lidocaine cream is used as a local anesthetic . awareness of this route of intoxication might be important in patients in whom neurologic or psychiatric symptoms develop while large amounts of lidocaine cream are being used . 
disseminated kaposi 's sarcoma not associated with hiv infection in a bisexual man . we report a 42-year-old white bisexual man with disseminated kaposi 's sarcoma limited to the skin and gastrointestinal tract . results of several serum tests for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) antibodies have been negative . the cd4/cd8 ratio has remained normal , and his kaposi 's sarcoma has had a benign clinical course during 30 months of follow-up . similar reports of disseminated kaposi 's sarcoma with a benign clinical course in homosexual or bisexual men without demonstrable hiv infection are reviewed . some cellular immune impairment that might be more prevalent in the homosexual population may be implicated in the pathogenesis of this type of kaposi 's sarcoma . 
cutaneous horn of the penis : its association with squamous cell carcinoma and hpv-16 infection . cutaneous horns of the penis are rare . including this case , only 19 cases have been reported in the english-language literature . in 37 % of the reported cases a malignant tumor was found beneath the cutaneous horn . our case is remarkable because a stage i squamous cell carcinoma developed on the shaft of the penis of a neonatally circumcised man . human genital carcinoma resulting from a multifactorial process in which " promoting " papillomavirus is an integral element is being increasingly reported . we review the relationship of circumcision to genital human papillomavirus infection and their synergism in the development of squamous cell carcinoma . 
lip paresthesia associated with a jaw mass . a case is reported in which mandibular swelling and lower lip numbness were the first signs of a metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung . the development of paresthesia , with or without other oral symptoms , requires that a diagnosis of malignancy be considered until confirmed or ruled out by tissue biopsy . a thorough head and neck examination in all patients , especially in those whose history or habits may indicate increased risk of malignancy is necessary . 
oncogenes and suppressor genes : their involvement in colon cancer [ editorial ] abnormalities in oncogenes , which are broadly classified into viral and cellular oncogenes , and suppressor genes appear critical for the development of colon cancer . cellular oncogenes contribute to malignant transformation when they become activated by point mutation , translocation , amplification , or loss of regulator sequences . the properties of the oncoproteins , the proteins encoded by oncogenes which are essential for carcinogenesis , are unclear . suppressor genes normally suppress the tumorigenic phenotype by keeping the growth of cells in check ; it is their inactivation that contributes to malignant transformation . development of colon cancer appears to take place by stepwise accumulation of multiple genetic alterations during the progression from normal colon to adenoma and carcinoma . activation of ras , an early event in this sequence , is found in 50 % of colon cancers ; overexpression of c-myc is found in approximately 80 % . inactivation of suppressor genes , which occurs during later stages , is noted in greater than 70 % of tumors . a current model of colonic tumorigenesis is presented . 
liver transplant for metastatic neuroendocrine tumor . generally , the results of liver transplantation for metastatic liver disease have not been favorable . one exception has been the unique group of neuroendocrine tumors , the slow growth of which allows liver transplantation to effectively palliate and control symptoms . we report two cases : ( a ) a 51-year-old man who underwent orthotopic liver transplantation and resection of the pancreatic primary tumor for a nonfunctioning malignant neuroendocrine tumor with features of both carcinoid and islet-cell glucagonoma remains symptom-free and without evidence of tumor recurrence at 13 months follow-up . ( b ) a 47-year-old man who underwent orthotopic liver transplantation and whipple resection for a metastatic islet-cell tumor in the head of the pancreas is fully recovered at 5 months follow-up . 
a nongastrin malignant ampullary tumor causing gastric acid and pepsin hypersecretion . a case report . we report a case of multiple duodenal ulcers with gastric hypersecretion due to a nongastrin secretagogue produced by a malignant tumor of the pancreas in a 78-year-old man . the case resembled a zollinger-ellison syndrome ( zes ) with high acid output ( basal acid output 27 , sham meal-stimulated 37 , maximum acid output 47 meq/h ) , but with fasting gastrin 43 pg/ml , nonresponsive to secretin . as in zes , pepsin output was comparatively low , and secretion was inhibitable by atropine ( 50 % inhibited by 1 microm ) . the tumor removed at surgery contained less than 1 ng gastrin per gram , but was many times more potent than pentagastrin in stimulating acid from a lumen-perfused rat stomach . the tumor also contained cholecystokinin ( cck-8 and cck-33 ) , motilin , insulin , and somatostatin , which were also present in adjacent normal pancreas ; in addition , the tumor contained pancreatic polypeptide and pancreatic cancer-associated antigen . this case represents a rare syndrome due to an as yet undefined peptide secreted by a ( frequently malignant ) pancreatic endocrine tumor and masquerading as zes . this is the first report of studies of pepsin secretion and of the effect of atropine , suggesting that the physiologic effects of the secretagogue resemble that of gastrin . 
insulinoma after streptozotocin therapy for metastatic gastrinoma : natural history or iatrogenic complication ? islet cell carcinoma frequently produces more than one chemical product , although its clinical expression is usually restricted to a single hormone . we describe an unusual patient who presented with full-blown metastasizing gastrinoma . he was treated with cimetidine for five years and then streptozotocin therapy , which resulted in a regression in hepatomegaly and a fall in serum gastrin levels . following one year 's therapy with streptozotocin , he was admitted in hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemic stupor . this appears to be the first reported case of a " shift " from clinical gastrinoma to insulinoma possibly related to prolonged streptozotocin therapy . 
insulin-like growth factor-i supports proliferation of autocrine thymic lymphoma cells with a pre-t cell phenotype . we have studied the phenotypic characteristics and growth properties of murine t lymphoma cell lines derived from primary x-ray-induced thymic lymphomas at the earliest stage at which they can be detected , and well before spreading to other organs has occurred . these cell lines serve as model systems for the earliest events in t cell lymphoma induction , before tumor cell progression and spreading to other organs . we find that primary x-ray-induced t cell lymphoma lines have phenotypic characteristics of thymic pre-t cells and show no proliferative response to any of the il tested nor to other hematopoietic growth factors . however , they do proliferate in response to insulin-like growth factor i ( igf-i ) and to a small autocrine peptide distinct from igf-i , which we term lymphoma growth factor . one of the earliest lesions in t cell lymphoma induction may therefore be an inhibition of differentiation at one of several specific points . in its early stages , t lymphoma cell growth may be restricted to an environment where local concentrations of specific growth factors such as igf-i or lymphoma growth factor are sufficiently high . 
regional and systemic distribution of anti-tumor x anti-cd3 heteroaggregate antibodies and cultured human peripheral blood lymphocytes in a human colon cancer xenograft . anti-tumor antibody ( 317g5 ) covalently coupled to an anti-cd3 antibody ( okt3 ) produces a heteroaggregate ( ha ) antibody that can target pbl to lyse tumor cells expressing the appropriate tumor ag . the i.v. and i.p. distribution of radiolabeled ha antibody 317g5 x okt3 and of radiolabeled cultured human pbl were studied in athymic nude mice bearing solid intraperitoneal tumor established from the human colon tumor line , ls174t . mice were injected with 125i-labeled ha antibody , 125i-labeled anti-tumor mab , or 111in-labeled pbl , and at designated timepoints tissues were harvested and measured for radioactivity . 125i-317g5 x okt3 localized specifically to tumor sites . tumor radioactivity levels ( percent injected dose/gram ) were lower with 125i-317g5 x okt3 ha antibody than with 125i-317g5 anti-tumor mab , but were similar to levels reported for other anti-tumor mab . the major difference in radioactivity levels observed between i.v. and i.p. administration of 125i-317g5 x okt3 was an increase in hepatic radioactivity after i.v. ha antibody administration . ha antibodies produced from f ( ab ' ) 2 fragments , which exhibit decreased m. w. and decreased fc receptor-mediated binding , demonstrated improved tumor : tissue ratios as compared to intact antibody ha . 125i-317g5 f ( ab ' ) 2 x okt3 f ( ab ' ) 2 antibody levels were equivalent to intact ha antibody levels in tumor , but were lower than intact ha antibody levels in the blood , bowel , and liver . tumor : bowel ratios ( 20:1 at 48 h ) were highest when 317g5 f ( ab ' ) 2 x okt3 f ( ab ' ) 2 was injected i.p. autoradiography confirmed that anti-tumor x anti-cd3 ha antibodies localized specifically to intraperitoneal tumor ; that i.p. administered ha antibodies penetrated tumor directly ; and that i.v. administered ha antibodies distributed along tumor vasculature . cultured human pbl distributed in moderate concentrations to intraperitoneal tumor when administered i.p. , but not when administered i.v. the poor localization of i.v. injected pbl to tumor may reflect species disparity in homing receptors and/or endothelial ligands , a problem which may be overcome with a syngeneic model . these results suggest that regional therapy with ha antibodies and pbl may offer advantages over systemic therapy for initial clinical trials . 
lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells . v. 8-mercaptoguanosine as an il-2-sparing agent in lak generation . guanine ribonucleosides , substituted at the c8 position with either a bromine or a thiol group , have recently been shown to regulate several immunologic responses . we have previously shown that 8-mercaptoguanosine ( 8mg ) can replace the requirement for cytokines in the generation of mhc-restricted ctl . in this paper , we examined the ability of 8mg to induce mhc-nonrestricted killer cells . we found that 8mg did not induce significant lytic activity from normal resting lymphocytes . however , 8mg was able to synergize with minimal amounts of il-2 in inducing lytic activity similar to lymphokine-activated killers ( lak ) in that both nk-sensitive and nk-resistant tumor cells were killed . both the precursors and effectors of 8mg-lak activity were similar to nk cells and were cd4 - cd8 - asialo-gm1 + nk1 .1 + . similar to il-2-induced lak , 8mg-lak were b220 + . 8mg appeared to " stage " these precursor lymphocytes to become more responsive to il-2 because optimal induction of 8mg-lak required preincubation with 8mg before the addition of il-2 . this " staging " appeared to be due to the release of a " second signal " since it was readily inhibited by cyclosporine a. anti-ifn-alpha beta was as efficient as cyclosporine a in inhibiting 8mg-lak generation , whereas anti-ifn-gamma and anti-il-1 did not exhibit significant inhibition . these findings suggest that 8mg can be of possible utility as an il-2-sparing agent in lak generation from nk cells . 
excision repair of pyrimidine dimers induced by simulated solar radiation in the skin of patients with basal cell carcinoma . one prominent lesion induced in dna by ultraviolet ( uv ) radiation is the cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimer formed between adjacent pyrimidines on the same dna strand . we investigated whether people who have developed basal cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin have an altered ability to repair uv-induced pyrimidine dimers in dna . twenty-two patients with at least one basal cell carcinoma , aged 31-84 years , and 19 healthy volunteers , aged 25-61 years , took part in the study . both groups were given one minimal erythema dose ( med ) of simulated solar radiation on the lower back . dna was extracted from the irradiated skin 0 to 6 h later , and the number of uv-induced pyrimidine dimers was determined using a dimer-specific endonuclease . at time 0 , the average number of dimers per unit of dna was similar in the two groups . after 6 h , an average of 22 + / - 4 % of the dimers were removed in the group with basal cell carcinoma compared to 33 + / - 4 % in the cancer-free group . in the basal cell carcinoma group , only 23 % of the patients repaired more than 30 % of the dimers after 6 h , compared with 53 % of the cancer-free subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that patients who develop basal cell carcinoma on sun-exposed skin may have a decreased ability to repair pyrimidine dimers induced in skin exposed to simulated solar radiation . 
susceptibility to effects of uvb radiation on induction of contact hypersensitivity as a risk factor for skin cancer in humans . normal , healthy human volunteers and patients with proved history of non-melanoma skin cancer have been tested for their capacity to develop contact hypersensitivity to dinitrochlorobenzene ( dncb ) following exposure of buttock skin to acute , low-dose ultraviolet b ( uvb ) radiation . using a radiation protocol that achieves virtually complete depletion of normal-appearing langerhans cells from irradiated skin , it was learned that approximately 60 % of healthy volunteers developed vigorous contact hypersensitivity ( ch ) when 2000 micrograms dncb was painted on the irradiated site . these individuals were designated uvb-resistant , and were distinguished from other individuals , designated uvb-susceptible , who failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following an identical treatment protocol . it was then discovered that virtually all ( 92 % ) skin cancer patients exposed to uvb and dncb failed to develop ch , i.e. , were uvb-susceptible . in subsequent experiments , epicutaneous application of 2000 micrograms dncb to unirradiated skin of uvb-susceptible individuals revealed a further distinction between normal persons and skin cancer patients . approximately 45 % of the latter ( and none of the former ) remained unresponsive ( failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following this second attempt at sensitization ) , implying that they had been rendered immunologically tolerant . these tolerant individuals responded normally to the unrelated hapten , diphencyprone . we conclude that human beings resemble inbred strains of laboratory mice in that some individuals are uvb-susceptible , whereas others are uvb-resistant . because the incidence of uvb-susceptibility was significantly higher in skin cancer patients , and as specific unresponsiveness could be demonstrated only in these patients , we propose that uvb-susceptibility , as we define it in this hapten system , may be a risk factor for the development of skin cancer . 
premalignant lesions and cancers of the skin in the general population : evaluation of the role of human papillomaviruses . to evaluate the role of human papillomaviruses ( hpv ) in the development of premalignant lesions and cancers of the skin in the general population , 314 biopsies obtained from 227 patients with benign neoplasms , premalignant lesions , and cancers of the skin and from 25 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the lip were analyzed by southern blot hybridization . dna probes specific for various cutaneous and genital hpv types were used in hybridizations conducted under nonstringent or stringent conditions . hpv dna sequences were only detected in eight specimens obtained from six patients : hpv 34 in one case of periungual bowen 's disease , hpv 36 and an as yet uncharacterized hpv in two cases of actinic keratosis , hpv 20 in one case of basal cell carcinoma , an as yet unrecognized hpv in one case of squamous cell carcinoma , and hpv 16 in one case of squamous cell carcinoma of the lip . none of the specimens of cutaneous horn and keratoacanthoma contained detectable hpv dna . in contrast , hpv dna sequences , mostly hpv 16 , were detected in 13 of 23 cases of anogenital bowen 's disease and invasive bowen 's carcinoma . hpv dna sequences were not detected in 90 cutaneous samples further analyzed by the polymerase chain-reaction technique , using amplification primers that contain conserved sequences among the genomes of hpv . these results strongly suggest that the known hpv types play only a minor role , if any , in skin carcinogenesis in the general population . 
cytomegalovirus in the brain : in vitro infection of human brain-derived cells . models for human cytomegalovirus ( hcmv ) brain infection have been developed in a variety of brain-derived cells in which the factors governing virus infectivity might be studied in vitro . studies were initiated with brain endothelial cells , the likely portal of entry for virus into the central nervous system . primary explant cultures of brain endothelial cells , derived from homogenates of healthy human brain , supported complete viral gene expression and cytopathic effect ( cpe ) . endothelial cells do not appear to be a barrier for hcmv passage into the central nervous system . astroglial lines ( primary explant or tumor-derived ) varied in their ability to support hcmv replication . some ( t98g ) supported incomplete ( immediate-early ) gene expression while others ( a-172 ) did not support any detectable gene expression . some astroglial lines ( hs-683 ) supported extensive virus replication with minimal viral cpe . neuronal cell lines ( sk-n-mc ) were fully permissive . the more differentiated glial lines ( astrocytoma ) were fully permissive to hcmv infection ; however , the less differentiated glial lines ( glioblastoma ) were partly or nonpermissive . 
distribution and specific identification of papillomavirus major capsid protein epitopes by immunocytochemistry and epitope scanning of synthetic peptides . monoclonal ( mabs ) and polyclonal antibodies were produced against the major capsid protein of detergent-disrupted , purified bovine papillomavirus type 1 ( bpv-1 ) . the precise locations of the corresponding epitopes were identified by the reactivity of mabs and selected polyclonal antibodies with synthetic , overlapping , hexameric peptides corresponding with 95 % of the bpv-1 major capsid protein . the topography of these epitopes was determined by reactivity of antibodies with intact ( conformational and nonconformational surface epitopes ) and disrupted ( external or internal nonconformational epitopes ) bpv-1 virions . the distribution of epitopes in various papillomaviruses of 13 different species was determined by reactivity of the mabs and polyclonal sera with productively infected , formalin-fixed papillomas , fibropapillomas , and fibromas . epitope scanning , using mabs and polyclonal antisera , resulted in the precise location of bpv-1 hexameric epitopes that could be correlated with their topography on the capsid and distribution in papillomatous lesions of various species . 
second primary tumours of the larynx following bronchial carcinoma . the occurrence of multiple primary malignancies in patients with laryngeal cancer is well known . the possibility that lung cancer patients may be at risk of subsequent laryngeal cancer is less well recognized . the possibility of laryngeal cancer developing later has implications for the follow-up of lung cancer patients . three cases of subsequent laryngeal primary cancer occurring in survivors of bronchial cancer are presented and the implications are discussed . 
alternating cisplatinum and vac ineffective in end stage squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . sixteen patients with end stage squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck were admitted to a phase ii study of alternating courses of cisplatinum ( 100 mg/m2 ) and vac ( vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 , adriamycin 50 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2 ) given at three weekly intervals . only two patients achieved a response ( 12 per cent ) . the median survival time was 62 days which is much the same as that of a similar group of patients who received no chemotherapy in a previous trial ( 70 days ) . 
head and neck cancer and ageing : a retrospective study in 438 patients . to evaluate whether age over 70 years represents a prognostic factor in head and neck cancer , we reviewed all cases observed between 1981 and 1984 . four hundred and thirty-eight ( 438 ) patients were considered in relation to three age groups ( less than or equal to 59 , 60-69 , and greater than or equal to 70 years , defined as non-elderly , mid-elderly and elderly respectively ) . the main parameters analyzed included histological diagnosis ( no difference emerged among the three age groups ) ; anatomical site ( hypopharyngeal carcinoma was most frequent in non-elderly patients ) ; tnm stage ( an higher incidence of early stages was seen in the elderly ) ; performance status ( better in the non-elderly ) ; previous illnesses ( life-style related diseases were more frequent in the non-elderly ) ; contraindications to surgery ( more frequent in the elderly ) ; surgical treatment ( ' en bloc ' resections were more often employed in the non-elderly ) ; post-operative complications and local control ( no difference between the three groups ) ; multiple primary malignancies ( head and neck , oesophagus and lung were more frequent in non-elderly patients ) and survival ( no difference ) . although age affects several features of head and neck cancer patients , it does not appear from the present study to be an independent prognostic factor for local control and survival . with regard to survival , stage appeared to be the most important prognostic factor . 
rhinosporidiosis associated with squamous cell carcinoma in the tongue . the peritumoural region of a squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue when examined with light and electron microscope showed nodular bodies in the submucosa with all the distinctive features of ' sporangium and ' spores ' of rhinosporidiosis . the occurrence of rhinosporidiosis in the tongue along with malignancy has not been reported hitherto . some interesting observations and causal relationships are discussed . 
malignant adenolymphoma of the parotid gland : report of carcinomatous transformation . malignant transformation of an adenolymphoma ( warthin 's tumour ) is a rare event . this paper presents a case of carcinoma arising in an adenolymphoma of the parotid gland . 
multiple primary malignancies in patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . the incidence of multiple primary malignancies ( mpm ) was analysed in 1297 patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . the patients were followed for a minimum of six years or until death . the incidence of mpm was 3.4 per cent ( 44/1297 ) which is lower in patients with malignant tumours of other regions in the upper aerodigestive tract . five of the 44 patients had second malignancies within previously irradiated areas . there was a difference between the proportion of histologies occurring in irradiated tissues compared with the overall 1297 patients . this finding suggests that radiotherapy may induce a second cancer . 
radiation therapy of laryngeal cancer : a twenty year experience . this paper reviews a 20 year experience of radiation treatment of 286 laryngeal cancers and presents results with a minimum five year follow-up . all cases presented had glottic or supraglottic squamous cell carcinomas with no clinical evidence of nodal metastasis . a policy of primary radiotherapy with surgery for salvage of treatment failures , produced control of primary disease and prevention of metastases superior to most other regimes documented in the literature . 
effect of microwave and ionizing radiation in patients with recurrent laryngeal carcinoma . this study describes the treatment and survival of 54 patients with gross recurrent laryngeal carcinoma after radiotherapy . twenty-six patients were treated with local ultra-high frequency hyperthermia in combination with radiotherapy and chemotherapy ( hrch ) . twenty-eight control patients were treated with radiotherapy and chemotherapy ( rch ) . eight patients ( 33 per cent ) in hrch showed a three year survival but no patient in the rch group . at two years 18 patients ( 75 per cent ) in hrch and two ( 7 per cent ) in rch survived . 
benign parotid tumour enucleation -- a reliable operation in selected cases . the method of surgical treatment for benign tumours of the parotid gland had not yet been rationalized , but many authors recommend parotidectomy as the most appropriate procedure . a series of 289 operations for parotid swelling is reported ; the majority of mixed and warthin 's tumours underwent enucleation without either complications or recurrence . the rationale of parotidectomy versus enucleation is discussed but in fast growing , deeply infiltrating and recurrent tumours , parotidectomy appears to be the best choice . in the other group of more commonly occurring tumours , enucleation represents a reliable time saving option . 
hoarseness as the sole presenting symptom of foramen magnum meningioma . foramen magnum tumours are rare . they may present with bizarre symptoms and mimic many conditions . we report a presentation with the sole complaint of hoarseness , never previously described in the literature . voice returned to normal after surgical removal of the foramen magnum meningioma . 
laryngeal metastasis from colonic adenocarcinoma . metastases to the larynx from distant primaries are very rare . usually the secondary lesion comes from an hypernephroma or malignant melanoma . a case of metastatic laryngeal tumour from a colonic adenocarcinoma , occurring in a 59-year-old woman , is presented and the routes for laryngeal spread are discussed . the poor survival-rate of these patients justified only conservative surgery . 
intralaryngotracheal thyroid . a case of intralaryngotracheal thyroid in a 57-year-old man is presented . the treatment modalities are considered and the previous literature is reviewed . 
mid-line presentation of cervical lymphomata . three cases of lymphoma are reported , all of which presented as a mid-line cervical swelling and appeared to be localised disease . the importance of early removal of such lesions is emphasized . 
causes of death in hospitalized intravenous drug abusers . the authors reviewed at autopsy the causes of death of 274 patients with evidence of intravenous drug abuse who had been admitted to a large public hospital . there were 127 who died from diseases unrelated to intravenous drug abuse , and in 41 % of these , chronic alcoholism was implicated . deaths from overdose syndromes and drug-related organ pathology comprised only 11 % of all cases . the mean age at death was 39 years . there was a male/female ratio of 3.6:1 . half of all patients died from infection -- 72 from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) alone . these findings indicate that persons hospitalized with a history of intravenous drug abuse usually die from causes other than overdose and that aids and chronic alcoholism are significant problems . emphasis should be placed upon detecting " hidden " intravenous drug deaths to provide more accurate statistical information . 
lambert eaton syndrome : autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion in a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung . a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung developed asymptomatic autonomic neuropathy , inappropriate antidiuretic hormone ( adh ) secretion and lambert eaton myasthenic syndrome . the autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate adh secretion were present at the time of diagnosis of the tumour . following chemotherapy these resolved , but 5 months later the patient developed lambert eaton syndrome which responded to 3,4-diaminopyridine . this sequence of changes appears to be unique . 
prognostic value of c-myc proto-oncogene overexpression in early invasive carcinoma of the cervix . the prognostic effect of c-myc oncogene overexpression was assessed in a multivariate analysis of 93 patients with invasive carcinoma of the cervix , stage ib , iia , and iib proximal . the treatment was based on the association of brachytherapy-colpohysterectomy and lymphadenectomy . analysis of c-myc gene expression was done using northern and slot blot hybridization techniques . overexpression of c-myc ( ie , levels at least three times the mean observed in normal tissues ) was present in 33 % of the tumors . the proportion of carcinomas with c-myc overexpression significantly increased with the size of the primary tumor ( p = .04 ) . no relationship was found between c-myc overexpression and the other clinical and histologic parameters , including the nodal status . the relative risk of relapse ( overall , pelvic failure , distant metastases ) was analyzed in a cox 's proportional hazards model . three factors were significantly related to the risk of overall relapse when the multivariate analysis was performed , namely , the tumor size , the nodal status , and c-myc expression . a combination of c-myc expression and the nodal status provided a very accurate indication of the risk of relapse . indeed , patients with negative nodes had a 3-year disease-free survival rate of 93 % ( 95 % confidence interval [ cl ] , 79 % to 98 % ) when c-myc was expressed at a normal level , whereas this rate was only 51 % ( 95 % cl , 26 % to 63 % ) when c-myc was overexpressed ( log-rank test , p = .02 ) . in addition , in the subgroup of patients with positive nodes , this rate was 44 % ( 95 % cl , 25 % to 77 % ) and 15 % ( 95 % cl , 4 % to 49 % ) when c-myc gene was expressed at normal level , or overexpressed , respectively . finally , c-myc gene overexpression was , in the multivariate analysis , the first factor selected by the model regarding the risk of distant metastases . 
high - versus standard-dose megestrol acetate in women with advanced breast cancer : a phase iii trial of the piedmont oncology association . one hundred seventy-two patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive oral standard-dose megestrol acetate ( ma ) , 160 mg/d or high-dose ma , 800 mg/d . all but two patients had one prior trial of tamoxifen therapy for either metastatic disease ( 74 % ) or as adjuvant treatment ( 26 % ) . pretreatment characteristics were similar for both arms . high-dose ma resulted in a superior complete plus partial response rate ( 27 % v 10 % , p = .005 ) , time to treatment failure ( median , 8.0 v 3.2 months , p = .019 ) , and survival ( median , 22.4 v 16.5 months , p = .04 ) when compared with standard-dose therapy . these differences remained significant after adjustment for other covariates . thirty-four patients were given high-dose ma after failure of standard-dose ma treatment , and none responded . weight gain was the most distressing side effect , with 13 % of standard-dose and 43 % of high-dose patients gaining more than 20 lbs . four major cardiovascular events occurred in patients receiving high-dose treatment and one in patients given standard doses . other toxicity was modest . high-dose ma may represent a significant improvement in secondary endocrine therapy for advanced breast cancer patients refractory to initial endocrine treatment , but its use on a regular basis should be reserved until these results are confirmed by other clinical trials . 
epirubicin cardiotoxicity : a study of 135 patients with advanced breast cancer . the cardiotoxicity of epirubicin ( epi ) was evaluated clinically , radiologically , with ecg , and with multiple ecg-gated radionuclide determination of the left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) during rest in 135 patients with advanced breast cancer . the epi doses were 60 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every 4 weeks or 45 mg/m2 plus vindesine 3 mg/m2 on the same schedule . the median cumulative dose of epi was 500 mg/m2 ( range , 47 to 1,563 ) . eight of the 135 patients developed congestive heart failure ( chf ) . of 67 patients treated with epi less than 500 mg/m2 , none developed chf . among 48 patients treated with doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2 , one had chf ( 2 % ; 95 % confidence limits , 0.1 to 11.1 ) . among 20 patients who received epi from 1,000 to 1,563 mg/m2 , seven developed chf ( 35 % ; 95 % confidence limits , 15.4 to 59.2 ) . four patients died due to cardiotoxicity . the risk of epi cardiotoxicity at the present schedule is considerable at doses above 1,000 mg/m2 . at doses between 500 and 1,000 mg/m2 the risk of chf decreases , and at doses below 500 mg/m2 , it is negligible . for all patients , the prevalence of chf was 6 % and the sensitivity of lvef high ( 95 % ) , mainly due to the low incidence of chf . among the 20 patients who received epi at more than 1,000 mg/m2 , the prevalence of chf was 35 % and the sensitivity only 64 % . the specificity was maximally 62 % . our results suggest that lvef is of no value as a predictor for chf . 
acute renal dysfunction during interleukin-2 treatment : suggestion of an intrinsic renal lesion . adoptive immunotherapy with interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells has been effective in treating some advanced malignancies in animals and humans . one complication of this treatment is a reversible , oliguric , acute renal failure , which has been ascribed to renal hypoperfusion and resultant prerenal azotemia . we serially studied renal function in 10 patients receiving high-dose regimens of recombinant interleukin-2 ( ril-2 ) to attempt to delineate further the nature of the renal dysfunction caused by il-2 treatment . renal plasma flow was computed from iodine 131 ( i-131 hippuran ; mediphysics , paramus , nj ) orthoiodohippurate , excretion curves , and glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) was determined by creatinine clearance . studies done prior to and on day 4 of treatment showed that gfr fell in nine of 10 patients , with a mean decrease of 43 % + / - 8 % , and renal plasma flow fell in five of the 10 patients with a mean decrease of 5 % + / - 10 % . the average pretherapy filtration fraction was calculated to be 23 % + / - 1 % and after 4 days of treatment , decreased to a mean value of 15 + / - 2 % . the bun to creatinine ratio also declined in all patients . these findings collectively suggest that il-2 nephrotoxicity may result from an intrarenal defect in addition to the previously described prerenal azotemia . additionally , radionuclide studies of renal function are a reliable and reproducible noninvasive method of assessing these changes in renal function . 
long-term sequelae of conservative treatment by surgery , brachytherapy , and chemotherapy for vulval and vaginal rhabdomyosarcoma in children . between 1970 and 1978 , 17 girls with rhabdomyosarcoma ( rms ) of the vulva or vagina were treated at the institut gustave-roussy ( igr ) by conservative treatment including surgery , brachytherapy , and chemotherapy . twelve pubescent or postpubescent girls were studied for long-term sequelae . eleven of 12 patients have had a normal puberty , two have a total of three healthy children , 11 have normal menses , and 10 normal menarche ( one after hormonal replacement ) . only one patient underwent hysterectomy following low-dose brachytherapy . five girls have no vaginal complications , and three are sexually active . three have had minimal vaginal sequelae , which required surgical correction to permit sexual intercourse . four girls sustained serious sequelae ( colorectal , vaginal , urethral , and ureteral stenosis ) . these sequelae , secondary to irradiation , are potentially avoidable in the future given the current advances in brachytherapy and improvements in dosimetry . this conservative treatment is useful and appropriate for girls with rms of vulvar or vaginal origin when complete remission can not be obtained with chemotherapy and partial colpectomy . 
questionable role of cns radioprophylaxis in the therapeutic management of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma with meningeal extension . a series of 15 consecutive children with head and neck nonorbital rhabdomyosarcoma ( rmsa ) with meningeal extension were prospectively treated with chemotherapy consisting of adriamycin ( doxorubicin ; adria laboratory , columbus , oh ) ( adm ) , vincristine ( vcr ) , cyclophosphamide ( cpm ) , and dactinomycin ( dact ) followed by radiotherapy ( 60 gy ) to the primary tumor volume , along with intrathecal methotrexate ( it mtx ) . thirteen of 15 responded to preradiation chemotherapy . four of 13 relapsed . relapse occurred at the level of the primary tumor in three of four . the 3-year progression-free survival ( pfs ) was 59 % , similar to that achieved in a previous series treated with a comparable therapeutic approach that also included whole-brain radiotherapy as a prophylaxis of possible occult meningeal seeding . it is concluded that cns prophylaxis with radiotherapy is questionable in the management of childhood rmsa with meningeal extension . 
treatment of metastatic melanoma with an autologous tumor-cell vaccine : clinical and immunologic results in 64 patients . we treated 64 patients with metastatic melanoma using a melanoma vaccine preceded by low-dose cyclophosphamide ( cy ) , and monitored immunologic effects and antitumor activity . on day 0 , the patients were given cy 300 mg/m2 intravenously . three days later , they were injected intradermally with vaccine consisting of 10 to 25 x 10 ( 6 ) autologous , enzymatically dissociated , cryopreserved , irradiated ( 25 gy ) tumor cells mixed with bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) . this treatment sequence was repeated every 28 days . of 40 assessable patients with measurable metastases , five had responses , four complete and one partial , with a median duration of 10 months ( 7 to 84 + months ) . in six additional patients , we observed an antitumor response that seems to be peculiar to this vaccine therapy : the regression of metastatic lesions that appeared after the immunotherapy was begun . delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) to autologous , mechanically dissociated melanoma cells that had not been exposed to extraneous antigens , such as enzymes or fetal calf serum , increased significantly following immunotherapy ( day 0 v day 49 , p less than .001 ; day 0 v day 161 , p less than .001 ; day 0 v day 217 , p = .021 ) . antitumor responses to the vaccine were strongly associated with dth , as indicated by three observations : ( 1 ) eight of 10 patients who exhibited tumor regression had positive dth , ( 2 ) in postsurgical adjuvant patients , there was a highly significant linear relationship ( p less than .001 ) between the intensity of dth to autologous melanoma cells and the time to recurrence of tumor , and ( 3 ) nine patients who developed dth to the autologous melanoma cells in their original vaccine developed new metastases that failed to elicit dth or elicited a much smaller response . in three cases , we were able to excise regressing tumors for histologic examination ; such tumors were characterized by an intense infiltration of lymphocytes . this demonstration that an immune response to melanoma-associated antigens can be elicited in cancer-bearing patients provides some basis for optimism about the prospects for developing active immunotherapy that has practical therapeutic value . 
human tumor fluorouracil trapping : clinical correlations of in vivo 19f nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy pharmacokinetics . we previously reported that fluorouracil ( 5fu ) accumulation and metabolism in human livers and tumors can be studied by in vivo nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( nmrs ) . we have extended these observations by evaluating the pharmacokinetics of 5fu in the tumors of 11 patients with carcinoma of the breast , colon , endometrium , cervix , and kidney , using 19f-nmrs in a 1.5 magnetom ( siemens medical systems , cerrito , ca ) magnetic resonance imaging unit ( mri ) . these nmrs measurements detected a long-lived tumor pool of 5fu in six of 11 tumors in our patients including carcinomas in the pelvis , breast , lung , and liver . the half-life ( t1/2 ) of this tumor pool of " trapped " 5fu was 0.33 to 1.3 hours ( 20 to 78 minutes ) , much longer than the t1/2 of 5fu in blood ( 5 to 15 minutes ) . neither the anabolites of 5fu ( fluorinated nucleosides , nucleotides , 5fu-rna , or 5fu-thymidylate synthase ) nor the catabolites ( eg , fluorobetaalanine [ fbal ] ) were detectable by 19f nmrs . patient response to chemotherapy appeared to correlate with the extent of trapping of free 5fu in the human tumors : in the seven patients receiving 5fu , or 5fu or fudr plus leucovorin , four of four patients whose tumors trapped 5fu responded to fluorinated pyrimidine chemotherapy , whereas three patients in whom there was a failure to detect tumor trapping were resistant to 5fu . we conclude that nmrs is clinically feasible , and enables investigators to study 5fu pharmacokinetics and metabolism in tumors in vivo . 19f-nmrs of 5fu allows for in vivo evaluation of 5fu metabolic modulation and might be able to guide therapeutic decisions . 
changes in the clearance of total and unbound etoposide in patients with liver dysfunction . the disposition of total and non-protein-bound etoposide was investigated in 21 cancer patients receiving etoposide and cisplatin combination chemotherapy . etoposide plasma concentrations were determined using a specific high-performance liquid chromatography ( hplc ) method , and etoposide plasma protein binding was determined by equilibrium dialysis . the patients had a wide range of renal function ( creatinine clearance , 32 to 159 ml/min/m2 ) and hepatic function ( total bilirubin range , 0.3 to 21.5 mg/dl ; aspartate aminotransferase [ ast ] range , 14 to 415 iu/l ; serum albumin range , 2.7 to 4.1 g/dl ) . the mean etoposide total systemic clearance was not different in 15 patients with total bilirubin less than 1.0 mg/dl versus six patients with total bilirubin 1.1 to 21.5 mg/dl ( 18.7 + / - 5.9 ml/min/m2 v 26.4 + / - 10.7 ml/min/m2 ; t-test p = .06 ) , with a trend toward higher total clearance in the patients with abnormal bilirubin values . however , the mean clearance of unbound etoposide was significantly lower in patients with increased total bilirubin ( 220 + / - 90 ml/min/m2 v 135 + / - 61 ml/min/m2 ; t-test p = .027 ) . the fraction of etoposide unbound ( fu ) in plasma was significantly higher in patients with increased bilirubin ( 9 % + / - 3 % v 27 % + / - 15 % ; t-test p = .002 ) , explaining the trend toward higher total clearance in these patients . etoposide clearance ( total or unbound ) in the 14 patients with measurable hepatic metastases was not different from the clearance in the seven patients without hepatic metastases . this study provides an explanation for why patients with increased bilirubin do not have lower total systemic clearance of etoposide , and indicates that such patients have a higher exposure to unbound etoposide . the results of ongoing pharmacodynamic studies of total and unbound etoposide in patients with increased bilirubin will determine the clinical relevance of altered etoposide protein binding . 
clinical evaluation of a side entry access port : a novel dual-lumen venous access device . the initial clinical experience with a low-profile side entry access ( sea ) dual-lumen implantable venous access port for cancer chemotherapy administration is summarized in this report . the catheter material is polyurethane . the overall experience in 35 patients in this study was a total of 6,224 patient days , with a mean of 178 days per patient . a variety of chemotherapeutic agents , biologic response modifiers , and antibiotics were administered . in 26 % of the patients , the device chambers were in simultaneous use during the treatment period . a 6 % incidence of clinical subclavian vein thrombosis was noted . there was no infectious complications . inconsistencies in blood withdrawal and temporary catheter dysfunction were comparable to other access ports in clinical use . the novel design of this side entry port and the catheter material of low thrombogenicity make this device a good option in patients requiring a low-profile system and dual access . nursing staff should be made aware of the side entry design and that in-service training for accessing the septum is required in centers where such devices are not routinely used . 
a prospective , randomized evaluation of the treatment of colorectal cancer metastatic to the liver . over a 4-year period ( 1982 to 1986 ) , 91 patients with solitary or multiple metastases from colorectal cancer were stratified , based on findings at laparotomy , to one of three groups and then prospectively randomized to one of two treatment arms within each group . group a patients had solitary resectable metastases , group b patients had multiple , resectable metastases , and group c patients had multiple , unresectable metastases . patients were randomized to one of two treatment arms within a group : group a-arm a1 : resection only , arm a2 : resection and continuous hepatic artery infusion ( chai ) of fluorodeoxyuridine ( fudr ) ; group b-arm b1 : resection and chai , arm b2 : chai only ; group c-arm c1 : chai , arm c2 : systemic fluorouracil followed by chai . median time to failure ( ttf ) was 31.8 , 11.1 , and 8.8 months for groups a , b , and c , respectively . arm a2 had an improved ttf when compared with arm a1 ( p = .03 ) . median survival correlated with extent of disease and was 37.3 , 22.4 , and 13.8 months for groups a , b , and c , respectively . survival was not changed by treatment variation ( arms ) within each group . two - and 5-year cumulative survivals for groups a , b , and c were 72.7 % and 45.4 % ; 45.8 % and 16.7 % ; and 31.7 % and 3.2 % , respectively . in patients with multiple metastases ( groups b and c ) , those patients whose original tumor was a dukes ' b had a significantly improved ttf and survival over those patients whose tumor was a dukes ' c ( p less than or equal to .02 ) . 
quantitative analysis of antibody localization in human metastatic colon cancer : a phase i study of monoclonal antibody a33 . a33 is a mouse immunoglobulin g2a ( igg2a ) monoclonal antibody ( mab ) that detects a heat-stable , protease - and neuraminidase-resistant epitope . the antigen is homogeneously expressed by virtually all colon cancers and in the colon mucosa but not other epithelial tissues . the biodistribution and imaging characteristics of iodine-131 ( 131i ) - maba33 were studied in colorectal carcinoma patients with hepatic metastases . antibody labeled with 2 to 5 mci of 131i was administered intravenously ( iv ) 7 to 8 days before surgery at five dose levels , ranging from 0.2 mg to 50 mg , with three or more patients entered at each dose level . in addition , three patients received 2 mg 131i-mabta99 ( an isotype-matched control mab ) together with 125i-maba33 . evaluation included whole-body imaging with a gamma camera , technetium-99 ( 99mtc ) - human serum albumin blood pool scans , liver/spleen scans , abdominal computed tomographic ( ct ) scans , hepatic arteriograms , antibody pharmacokinetics , and assessment of antibody distribution in biopsied malignant and normal tissues . selective maba33 localization to tumor tissue was demonstrated in 19 of 20 patients , and external imaging correlated with surgical inspection , pathologic examination , and tissue radioactivity . one week after antibody administration , tumor : liver ratios ranged from 6.9:1 to 100:1 and tumor : serum ratios from 4.1:1 to 25.2:1 . 99mtc-albumin blood pool studies showed that liver metastases were hypovascular , emphasizing the selective localization of maba33 despite poor tumor-blood flow . control mabta99 studies showed maba33 localization was antigen-specific ; tumor : liver ratios were 2.3 - to 45-fold higher for specific antibody . in metastatic lesions , radioisotope was localized primarily in the viable periphery ; however , even the necrotic tumor core concentrated specific antibody . external imaging showed isotope visualization in some patients ' large bowel ; whether this represents specific antibody uptake or gastric iodine secretion is unclear . 
an early phase ii study of cpt-11 : a new derivative of camptothecin , for the treatment of leukemia and lymphoma . an early phase ii study of a new camptothecin analog and an inhibitor of topoisomerase i , cpt-11 , was conducted in 62 patients with refractory leukemia and lymphoma by four different treatment schedules in a multiinstitutional cooperative study . cpt-11 therapy resulted in four complete remissions ( crs ) and three partial remissions ( prs ) in 29 assessable non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) patients , one pr in three hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) , one cr and one pr in 11 acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) , and one pr in 15 acute myelogenous leukemia ( aml ) patients . single infusion of 200 mg/m2 every 3 to 4 weeks produced no response in both leukemia and lymphoma patients . sixty-minute infusions of 40 mg/m2/d for 5 days every 3 to 4 weeks or for 3 days weekly produced four crs ( 17 % ) and four prs ( 17 % ) in 24 patients with malignant lymphoma . sixty-minute infusions of 20 mg/m2 twice a day for 7 days every 3 to 4 weeks resulted in one cr and two prs in 12 patients with acute leukemia . no response was seen in an acute leukemia patient by another treatment schedule . cpt-11 was effective in two ( 15 % ) of 13 primarily refractory leukemia and lymphoma cases , in two of four relapsed cases , and in seven ( 17 % ) of 41 relapsed and refractory cases . major side effects were leukopenia ( 91 % ) and gastrointestinal ( gi ) ( 76 % ) . cpt-11 was shown to be effective against refractory leukemia and lymphoma , and thus deserves further clinical study ; the novel antitumor activity mode of this drug predicts no cross-resistance to presently available antitumor drugs . 
the unique aspects of acute promyelocytic leukemia . acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) accounts for approximately 10 % of cases of acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) . distinctive features of this disorder at the time of diagnosis include leukopenia coexisting with a marrow replaced with granulated dysplastic promyelocytes , disseminated intravascular coagulopathy , lack of ia ( hla-dr ) antigen expression , and translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 15 and 17 ( t [ 15 ; 17 ] ) . heparin is widely but not universally used to interfere with the coagulopathy during the initial phases of treatment . serial bone marrow examinations during the induction period demonstrate the achievement of remission despite the persistence of malignant-appearing promyelocytes . patients with apl are generally younger than those with other subtypes of aml , have a 70 % to 80 % likelihood of entering remission , and are thought to have a more favorable prognosis than other individuals with aml . remission may be achieved with a conventional anthracycline-cytarabine combination , anthracycline alone , or , apparently , all-trans retinoic acid . genes potentially important in myeloid differentiation such as granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) and myeloperoxidase are located close to the breakpoint in the t ( 15 ; 17 ) but have not been conclusively shown to be rearranged in the translocation . a better understanding of the unique aspects of apl may well shed light on the pathogenetic processes of aml . 
intraperitoneal yttrium-90-labeled monoclonal antibody in ovarian cancer from march 1987 to march 1988 , a phase i to ii study was carried out in 25 patients with ovarian cancer . they received escalating doses of intraperitoneally ( ip ) administered yttrium-90 ( y-90 ) - labeled monoclonal antibody , hmfg1 , against a tumor cell-surface antigen . myelosuppression prevented an escalation of the administered y-90 activity above 25 mci . y-90-labeled antibody was absorbed from the peritoneal cavity into the circulation . maximum blood y-90 activity was observed 40 hours after the ip injection with a mean of 21 % of the injected activity ( range , 14.2 % to 26.4 % ) in the circulation . the radiation dose the bone marrow received from circulating y-90-labeled antibody ( the blood radiation dose ) was calculated by applying the medical internal radiation dose ( mird ) formulation to the measured y-90 activity in patients blood . myelosuppression occurred following calculated blood radiation doses to bone marrow of only 10 to 30 cgy . the excessive myelosuppression following such modest radiation doses from circulating y-90-labeled antibody could be explained by the uptake of y-90 by bone . in an attempt to reduce bone absorption of y-90 , seven patients received an intravenous ( iv ) infusion of edta ( sinclair pharmaceuticals ltd , godalming , united kingdom ) . this increased the urinary excretion of y-90 from a mean of 11.1 % to 32.3 % of the injected activity ( p = .0001 ) . fourteen patients had assessable tumor at laparoscopy . tumor regression was observed in one patient , and palliation of ascites in a further patient . 
pediatric osteosarcoma : therapeutic strategies , results , and prognostic factors derived from a 10-year experience . ninety-eight pediatric patients were treated with three separate protocols ( treatment and investigation of osteosarcoma [ tios ] i , ii , and iii ) and 47 developed recurrent disease ( metastases and/or local recurrence ) . actuarial overall disease-free survival ( hereafter designated survival ) was 43 % . over 90 % of the patients were treated initially with preoperative intraarterial cisplatin ( cdp ) . postoperative chemotherapeutic regimens comprised high-dose methotrexate with leucovorin rescue ( mtx-cf ) , adriamycin [ ( adr ] doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ) , and cyclophosphamide . primary definitive treatment comprised amputation or limb salvage ( tios i and tios iii ) . patients treated with preoperative cdp and surgery ( tios i and iii ) had a 62 % survival . patients in tios ii refused surgical extirpation ; they were treated exclusively with chemotherapy and had a 23 % survival . survival in patients treated with amputation was 55 % and limb salvage 58 % . prognostic factors considered significant in relation to development of pulmonary metastases comprised tumor burden ( p = .04 ) and the percentage of tumor necrosis induced by preoperative chemotherapy ( p = .01 ) . histopathologic subtype was marginally significant : chondroblastic was more favorable as opposed to osteoblastic ( p = .05 ) . these findings are compared with results and prognostic factors published in the literature . 
current urinary mass screening for catecholamine metabolites at 6 months of age may be detecting only a small portion of high-risk neuroblastomas : a chromosome and n-myc amplification study . we studied 96 infants and children with untreated neuroblastomas . chromosomes of tumor cells were analyzed in 68 , and n-myc copy numbers were determined in 67 patients . patients found by a mass screening program for 6-month-old infants ( group a1 , 39 patients ) or those less than 12 months of age found clinically ( group a2 , 13 patients ) were rarely in the disseminated stage ( a1 , three of 39 ; a2 one of 13 ) ; their tumors usually had near-triploid ( 3n ) or hypertetraploid ( greater than 4n ) karyotypes ( a1 , 28 of 37 ; a2 , nine of 11 ) , and never had n-myc amplification ( a1 , zero of 34 ; a2 , zero of 11 ) . in contrast , children 12 months or over ( group b , 27 patients ) were usually in the disseminated stage ( 19 of 27 ) ( p less than .0001 ) ; their tumors usually had near-diploid ( 2n ) or near-tetraploid ( 4n ) karyotypes ( 16 of 20 ) ( p = .0027 ) , and often had n-myc amplification ( nine of 22 ) ( p less than .0001 ) . of the 40 clinically found patients ( a2 and b ) , six had undergone the screening with a negative result at the age of 6 months . two of the six patients had n-myc amplification in the tumors . most tumors found by the screening showed known characteristics predicting a good prognosis , and the majority of tumors showing characteristics predicting a poor prognosis were found in patients aged between 12 and 36 months . our chromosome and n-myc amplification studies suggest that a low-risk tumor does not usually evolve to a high-risk tumor . thus , the current mass screening program may be detecting only a small portion of highly malignant neuroblastomas at the earliest stage . infants should be screened twice , at 6 months as well as at 12 months of age , for the early detection of high-risk neuroblastomas . 
mechlorethamine , vincristine , and procarbazine chemotherapy for recurrent high-grade glioma in adults : a phase ii study . we undertook a phase ii study of combination chemotherapy with mechlorethamine ( nitrogen mustard ) 6 mg/m2 intravenously day 1 and day 8 , vincristine 2 mg intravenously day 1 and day 8 , and procarbazine 100 mg/m2 orally days 1 through 14 ( mop ) in adults with recurrent high-grade glioma . there were 31 patients entered and 27 patients assessable for response . the median age was 49 years old . all patients had prior maximal radiotherapy , and eight had previous chemotherapy . responses were determined based on clinical and computed tomographic ( ct ) scan/magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) criteria . the response rate ( partial response [ pr ] plus objective qualitative response [ oqr ] plus complete response [ cr ] ) was 52 % with one cr . the response rate was higher in patients with anaplastic astrocytoma as compared with glioblastoma multiforme ( p less than .05 ) . the median duration of response was 42 weeks . median survival for all assessable patients was 30 weeks , and for responders , it was 60 weeks . response was correlated with ability to decrease dexamethasone doses and improved performance status . toxicity was mainly hematologic with leukopenia being common . there was one treatment-related death from listeria meningitis , and two patients developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . there were three episodes of neutropenic fever . we conclude that mop is active and merits further investigation in adult high-grade glioma . 
phase ii study of fluorouracil and recombinant interferon alfa-2a in previously untreated advanced colorectal carcinoma . we conducted a phase ii clinical trial of fluorouracil ( 5fu ) and recombinant interferon alfa-2a ( rifn alpha-2a ) in 52 previously untreated patients with bidimensionally measurable metastatic colorectal cancer . during week 1 , 5fu was administered as a continuous intravenous infusion , 750 mg/m2/d for 5 consecutive days . intravenous bolus administration of 5fu 750 mg/m2 was given weekly for 7 weeks starting on day 12 . rifn alpha-2a ( roferon ; hoffman-laroche , nutley , nj ) , 9 x 10 ( 6 ) u , was administered subcutaneously three times weekly during weeks 1 to 8 . patients were evaluated for response on week 9 . of 52 patients enrolled in the study , 51 were assessable for toxicity , and 45 were assessable for response . fifteen patients experienced partial response , and one patient achieved a clinical complete response for an overall response rate of 35 % ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 22 % , 50 % ) . median duration of response is 7.5 months ( range , 4 to 11 months ) . seventy percent of patients entered on the study are alive with a median follow-up duration of 7 months . twenty-five percent of patients developed grade 4 toxicity , and 82 % developed grade 3 toxicity . one drug-related death in the presence of sepsis was reported , and two treatment-related seizures occurred . our experience with this schedule produced a lower response rate with greater toxicity than previously reported . current randomized trials comparing this schedule of 5fu with rifn alpha-2a to 5fu plus folinic acid ( leucovorin ) or single-agent 5fu may determine its role in the treatment of advanced colorectal carcinomas . 
adjuvant cyclophosphamide , methotrexate , and fluorouracil in patients with axillary node-positive breast cancer : an update of the guy 's / manchester trial . between 1976 and 1985 , 391 patients ( 202 premenopausal , 189 postmenopausal ) with operable breast cancer and positive axillary lymph nodes were randomized after total mastectomy and axillary clearance to receive cyclophosphamide , methotrexate , and fluorouracil ( cmf ) ( n = 193 ) or no adjuvant therapy ( n = 198 ) . after a median follow-up of 8 years , both relapse-free survival ( rfs ) and survival ( s ) were significantly prolonged in premenopausal patients receiving cmf ( rfs , p less than .001 ; s , p = .003 ) . treatment with cmf resulted in a significant improvement in rfs in premenopausal patients both with steroid receptor-positive and steroid receptor-negative tumors and also in subgroups of premenopausal patients defined by the number of axillary nodes involved . premenopausal patients who developed permanent amenorrhea following cmf had a significantly better rfs than those who continued to menstruate . induction of amenorrhea following cmf was related to age , with almost all patients over 40 years becoming amenorrheic . for patients less than or equal to 40 years , development of amenorrhea following cmf did not influence outcome . no difference was detected between control and cmf groups ( rfs , p = .9 ; s , p = .9 ) in postmenopausal patients nor in any subgroup of these patients . the results of this trial of the efficacy of cmf for improving rfs and s have strengthened with longer follow-up . 
node-negative breast cancer : prognostic subgroups defined by tumor size and flow cytometry adjuvant systemic therapy for women with node-negative breast cancer is most easily justified for those patients at highest risk of relapse . we have examined the impact of tumor size , histologic grade , estrogen receptor ( er ) status , tumor ploidy , and s-phase fraction ( spf ) on relapse-free survival ( rfs ) for 169 patients with node-negative breast cancer in order to identify groups of patients at high and low risk of relapse . patients with small tumors ( less than or equal to 1.0 cm ) had a significantly better rfs than those with larger tumors ( p = .005 ) , with 96 % remaining relapse-free at 5 years . patients with tumors less than or equal to 1.0 cm were thus excluded from analysis when attempting to define a group with a poor prognosis . within the group of patients with tumors greater than 1.0 cm , tumor ploidy ( p = .63 ) , er status ( p = .3 ) , or progesterone receptor ( pgr ) status ( p = .24 ) did not predict for rfs . patients with grade 1 or 2 infiltrating ductal tumors had a significantly better prognosis than those with grade 3 tumors ( p = .04 ) . the prognostic factor that gave the widest separation between subgroups , however , was spf . patients whose tumors were greater than 1.0 cm with an spf less than or equal to 10 % had a 5-year rfs of 78 % compared with a 5-year rfs of 52 % for those with an spf greater than 10 % ( p = .006 ) . we have combined tumor size and spf to identify three prognostic groups : ( 1 ) tumor less than or equal to 1.0 cm , 5-year rfs 96 % ; ( 2 ) tumor greater than 1.0 cm plus spf less than or equal to 10 % , 5-year rfs 78 % ; 3 ) tumor greater than 1.0 cm plus spf greater than 10 % , 5-year rfs 52 % . these prognostic groupings may help identify patients most suitable for adjuvant therapy . 
drug-induced dna damage and tumor chemosensitivity . cytotoxic drugs act principally by damaging tumor-cell dna . quantitative analysis of this interaction provides a basis for understanding the biology of therapeutic cell kill as well as a rational strategy for optimizing and predicting tumor response . recent advances have made it possible to correlate assayed dna lesions with cytotoxicity in tumor cell lines , in animal models , and in patients with malignant disease . in addition , many of the complex interrelationships between dna damage , dna repair , and alterations of gene expression in response to dna damage have been defined . techniques for modulating dna damage and cytotoxicity using schedule-specific cytotoxic combinations , dna repair inhibitors , cell-cycle manipulations , and adjunctive noncytotoxic drug therapy are being developed , and critical therapeutic targets have been identified within tumor-cell subpopulations and genomic dna alike . most importantly , methods for predicting clinical response to cytotoxic therapy using both in vitro markers of tumor-cell sensitivity and in vivo measurements of drug-induced dna damage are now becoming a reality . these advances can be expected to provide a strong foundation for the development of innovative cytotoxic drug strategies over the next decade . 
magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents : theory and application to the central nervous system . the theoretical aspects of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging contrast agents are reviewed , and their current applications to the central nervous system ( cns ) and their future applications are discussed . profound differences exist between contrast agents used for mr imaging and computerized tomography ( ct ) . in mr imaging , the contrast agents are not imaged directly but rather act on adjacent protons to shorten t1 and t2 relaxation times . this in turn results in signal intensity changes . the lanthanide metal , gadolinium , in the form of gadopentetate dimeglumine , has been found to be both safe and efficacious as the only currently approved contrast agent for mr imaging . magnetic resonance imaging revolutionized the detection and treatment of disease affecting the brain and spine . initially , it was thought that signal characteristics on mr imaging would allow differentiation of specific pathology . it was soon found that mr studies were able to detect more abnormalities but were less able to characterize them . the recent development of contrast agents for mr imaging has allowed this modality to surpass ct for the evaluation of most cns lesions . at present , contrast-enhanced mr imaging is generally accepted as the study of choice for evaluating acoustic neurinomas , pituitary lesions , meningeal disease , primary and secondary brain tumors , active multiple sclerosis , intradural spinal neoplasms , intramedullary spinal disease , and postoperative states in both the spine and brain . even when contrast-enhanced ct can detect the same abnormalities , evaluation of the lesions in multiple planes on mr imaging can sometimes yield invaluable information , especially prior to surgery . future developments of contrast material for mr imaging include non-gadolinium compounds , intrathecal contrast media , cerebral blood flow and volume evaluation , and , possibly , antibody-labeled contrast agents . 
clinoidal meningiomas . anterior clinoidal meningiomas are frequently grouped with suprasellar or sphenoid ridge meningiomas , masking their notorious association with a high mortality and morbidity rate , failure of total removal , and recurrence . to avoid injury to encased cerebral vessels , most surgeons are content with subtotal removal . without total removal , however , recurrence is expected . recent advances in cranial-base exposure and cavernous sinus surgery have facilitated radical total removal . the author reports 24 cases operated on with vigorous attempts at total removal of the tumor with involved dura and bone . this experience has distinguished three groups ( i , ii , and iii ) which influence surgical difficulties , the success of total removal , and outcome . these subgroups relate to the presence of interfacing arachnoid membranes between the tumor and cerebral vessels . the presence or absence of arachnoid membranes depends on the origin of the tumor and its relation to the naked segment of carotid artery lying outside the carotid cistern . total removal was impossible in the three patients in group i , with postoperative death occurring in one patient and hemiplegia in another . total removal was achieved in 18 of the 19 patients in group ii , with one death from pulmonary embolism . in the two patients in group iii , total removal without complications was easily achieved . 
motility factor produced by malignant glioma cells : role in tumor invasion . to better understand the cellular mechanism of tumor invasion , the production of a cell motility-stimulating factor by malignant glioma cells was studied in vitro . serum-free conditioned media from cultures of rat c6 and human t98g cell lines contained a factor that stimulated the locomotion of the producer cells . this factor was termed the " glioma-derived motility factor . " the glioma-derived motility factor is a heat-labile protein with a molecular weight greater than 10 kd and has relative stability to acid . the factor showed not only chemotactic activity but also chemokinetic ( stimulated random locomotion ) activity in the two types of glioma cells studied . although glioma-derived motility factors in conditioned media obtained from two different cell origins are likely to be the same , chemokinetic migration of t98g cells to their conditioned medium was much stronger than that of c6 cells to theirs . coincubation of cells with cytochalasin b , which disrupts the assembly of cellular actin microfilaments , almost completely inhibited the cell migration stimulated by glioma-derived motility factor . cytochalasin b also induced marked alterations in cell morphology , including cell retraction and arborization , while the drug did not affect cell attachment to culture dishes . these results indicate that glioma cells produce a motility factor which may play a role particularly when tumor cells are detached and migrate away from the original tumor mass , thus promoting tumor invasion . also , glioma cell migration stimulated by the motility factor requires the normal organization of cytoskeletons such as actin microfilaments . 
antigen related to cell proliferation in malignant gliomas recognized by a human monoclonal antibody . a human monoclonal antibody ( cln-igg ) was produced from a human-human hybridoma derived from lymphocytes of a patient with cervical carcinoma . the reactivities of this antibody with various human glioma tissues and cultured glioma cells and the characterization of the antigen recognized by cln-igg on malignant glioma cells were analyzed and reported . cln-igg reacted with various human glioma cells and glioma tissues , especially glioblastoma , but did not react with normal brain tissues or fetal brain tissues . a large amount of antigen recognized by cln-igg was expressed on cell membranes of undifferentiated glioma cells and of glioma cells at the g2/m tumor growth phase in cycling cells . antigen recognized by cln-igg was detected in only one of seven samples of cyst fluid , and was not detected in 27 serum samples or 18 samples of cerebrospinal fluid from glioma patients . cln-igg exhibited antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity against u-25 1 mg glioma cells and primary cultured cells of glioblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas . these data suggest that the antigen recognized by cln-igg might be related to cell proliferation in malignant gliomas . thus , cln-igg might be useful for immunotherapy or immunoimaging of malignant gliomas . 
evidence of a local immune activation in cystic brain tumors . the fluid of cystic brain tumors was characterized with regard to the protein content . in most malignant tumors , the concentrations of immunoglobulins g and m ( igg and igm ) were higher relative to other proteins in the cyst fluid than in the serum of the same patient . a markedly elevated ratio of monomeric to pentameric igm was detected in the cyst fluid of two patients with glioblastomas . the results indicate a local immunoglobulin synthesis in malignant cystic brain tumors . it is hypothesized that higher-than-expected concentrations of igg and igm in cyst fluid as compared to plasma are a sign of an ongoing immune response triggered by the tumor . 
epithelial cyst of the fourth ventricle . case report . a case of epithelial cyst in the fourth ventricle of a 4-year-old child is described . a single epithelial layer with a clear basement membrane lining the cyst wall was observed . there were no prominent histological findings to suggest a pathogenesis for this cyst based on immunohistochemical or ultrastructural studies ; however , the cyst fluid contained significant amounts of carcinoembryonic antigen . it is considered that the epithelial layer lining the cyst wall was possibly of endodermal origin . 
recurrence of acoustic neurilemoma as a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm . case report . a 75-year-old man presented with a right cerebellopontine angle tumor 11 months after complete macroscopic resection of a right acoustic neurilemoma . histological examination of the recurrent tumor showed a malignant spindle-cell neoplasm with positive staining for s-100 protein . the patient had no stigmata of von recklinghausen 's disease . it is proposed that this recurrence represents progression from a benign to a malignant acoustic nerve-sheath tumor , an event that is extremely rare outside the clinicopathological context of neurofibromatosis . 
administered dose and tumor dose of bleomycin labeled with cobalt-57 in mice and men . tumor concentrations of the chemotherapeutic drug , bleomycin , labeled with cobalt-57 ( co-bleo ) were compared in mouse tumor models and in human lung tumors using quantitative single-photon emission computed tomography . drug concentrations in histologically similar human tumors showed marked variability for the same injected dose ( id ) . small cell carcinomas showed concentrations between 1.09 and 8.85 % id/cc x 10 ( -3 ) while non-small cell lung tumors showed a concentration variation between 0.36 and 6.75 % id/cc x 10 ( -3 ) . in contrast to the situation in human tumors , uptake in mouse tumors showed only slight variability in animals with the same tumor model . emt-6 tumors in mice showed at 6 hr significantly higher uptake of co-bleo ( p less than 0.001 ) and significantly higher tumor-to-lung ratio ( p less than 0.001 ) when compared to murine fibrosarcomas . the emt-6 tumors in contrast to the fibrosarcomas responded to bleomycin treatment in a dose dependent manner . the results indicate that while in mice the tumor dose closely follows the administered dose , in humans , the tumor dose and the tumor-to-lung ratio in the individual patient can not be predicted from the administered dose . 
imaging of tumor in patients with indium-111-labeled biotin and streptavidin-conjugated antibodies : preliminary communication tumor localization in patients has been achieved through the in vivo use of streptavidin and biotin . in these preliminary studies , the monoclonal antibody hmfg1 was conjugated with streptavidin and 1 mg was administered intravenously to each of 10 patients with documented squamous cell carcinoma of the lung . two to 3 days later , 111in-labeled biotin was also administered intravenously . no evidence of toxicity was observed . background radioactivity levels were reduced in liver ( 1 % id at 24 hr ) and kidneys ( 2 % ) and in all other normal tissues and blood . images of lung tumor were obtained in as little as 2 hr following administration of labeled biotin . in eight patients , tumor was detected with labeled biotin alone without the previous administration of streptavidin-conjugated antibody but in three of these patients , the images were improved with the prior administration of conjugated antibody . these results suggest that this approach may improve the tumor-to-normal tissue radioactivity ratios in radioimmunotargeting . 
immunoscintigraphy of ovarian cancer with indium-111-labeled ov-tl 3 f ( ab ' ) 2 monoclonal antibody . the safety and diagnostic accuracy of immunoscintigraphy with the indium-111-labeled monoclonal antibody ov-tl 3 f ( ab ' ) 2 ( 111in-ov-tl 3 f ( ab ' ) 2 ) for diagnosis and follow-up of ovarian cancer was prospectively studied in 31 patients . planar and spect scintigraphy were performed up to 4 days after i.v. injection of 140 mbq 111in-ov-tl 3 f ( ab ' ) 2 . surgical evaluation was possible in 22 out of 31 patients . imaging results were compared with x-ray computed tomography , ultrasound , and ca 125 serum level using the histologically confirmed surgical findings as a " gold standard . " apart from a transient rash observed in two patients , no other immediate or delayed adverse reactions were observed . within the surgically evaluated group , ovarian cancer lesions were detected in 16 out of 17 patients ( 94 % ) . of 45 distinct tumor deposits found at operation , 67 % were detected and localized with immunoscintigraphy while x-ray computed tomography and ultrasound visualized 53 % and 23 % , respectively . 
the potential of 2-deoxy-2 [ 18f ] fluoro-d-glucose ( fdg ) for the detection of tumor involvement in lymph nodes . to assess the potential of fdg for pet imaging of nodal tumor metastases , we evaluated its uptake into normal lymph nodes , tumor-involved lymph nodes , and subcutaneous tumor xenografts in rodents . normal lymph nodes in mice and rats accumulate fdg moderately , developing node/blood ratios of 1.3-11 .9 / 1 at 2 hr following i.v. injection . by contrast , fdg given subcutaneously to healthy sprague dawley rats developed very high normal draining lymph node/blood ratios ( 272/1 ) versus 7.7 / 1 by i.v. injection . in nude mice , subcutaneous human ovarian cancer xenografts had 1.27-fold more uptake relative to blood than did normal popliteal lymph nodes . subcutaneous tumor xenografts of rat breast cancer developed tumor/normal node uptake ratios of 4.91 + / - 0.43 / 1 and tumor/blood ratios of 6.6 + / - 0.9 at 2 hr postinjection . mouse nodes involved with 38c13 murine b-cell lymphoma had mean node/blood ratios of 42.9 + / - 6.7 / 1 and tumored node/normal lymph node uptake of 6.3 / 1 . thus , fdg given intravenously but not subcutaneusly ( due to high normal nodal uptake ) has potential as an agent for the detection of metastatic tumors in regional lymph nodes using pet scanning . 
radioimmunoscintigraphy using iodine-131-anti-cea monoclonal antibodies and thallium-201 scintigraphy in medullary thyroid carcinoma : a case report . this case report demonstrates the use of thallium-201 ( 201tl ) scans versus iodine-131 - ( 131l ) anti-cea f ( ab ' ) 2 scans in a patient with high serum cea levels due to metastases of medullary thyroid carcinoma in the suprarenal region and sacroiliacal region . scintigraphy using monoclonal antibodies directed against cea showed a higher tumor uptake ( 0.26 % dose and 0.64 % dose , respectively ) than a thallium scan and is believed to be promising for future radiotherapeutic applications . 
treatment planning for internal radionuclide therapy : three-dimensional dosimetry for nonuniformly distributed radionuclides . a calculational approach is described that provides the spatially varying radiation absorbed dose , presented as isodose contours superimposed on ct images , from nonuniform and/or irregular cumulated activity distributions . ct images are read from magnetic tape and are displayed on a high-resolution color graphics display monitor . source tissue geometries are defined on a series of contiguous ct images automatically ( by an edge detection algorithm ) or manually ( using a trackball ) , thereby obtaining a three-dimensional representation of the various source volumes of activity . dose calculations are performed using a radionuclide-specific absorbed dose point kernel in the form of a lookup table . the method described yields the spatially varying dose delivered to tumor and normal tissue volumes from a patient-specific cumulated activity distribution in a clinically implementable manner . this level of accuracy in determining normal tissue and tumor doses may prove valuable in the evaluation and implementation of radionuclides and radiolabeled compounds for therapeutic purposes . 
effects of energy restriction on mouse mammary tumor virus mrna levels in mammary glands and uterus and on uterine endometrial hyperplasia and pituitary histology in c3h/shn f1 mice . we investigated the effects of energy restriction on the pituitary-ovarian axis and on a hormone responsive gene , the mouse mammary tumor virus ( mmtv ) . female c3h/shn f1-hybrid mice , known to display a high incidence of mammary tumors , ate an energy-restricted diet ( 48 kcal/wk ) or a control diet ( 95 kcal/wk ) beginning at the time of weaning . by 67 wk of age , 12 of 32 mice in the control group , but none of the 33 mice in the energy-restricted group , had developed mammary tumors . six tumor-free mice from each group were studied in detail at 67 wk of age . all six tumor-free control mice , but none of the six energy-restricted mice , showed uterine endometrial hyperplasia at autopsy . mice subjected to energy restriction did not display an estrous cycle . the average levels of mmtv mrna in mammary glands and uteri were strongly reduced by energy restriction . mmtv mrna levels in mammary glands from control mice were two orders of magnitude lower than those in mammary tumors . energy restriction lowered the percentage of pituitary mammatropes and suppressed proliferation of mammatropes with advancing age . energy restriction thus appeared to inhibit endometrial hyperplasia and to decrease mmtv production at the mrna level in the mammary glands and in the uterus . these effects may be a consequence of hormonal changes originating at the pituitary-ovarian axis . 
implementation of cancer prevention guidelines in clinical practice . data from several sources , including consumer surveys , physician surveys , and medical record audits , indicate that consumers do not receive cancer screening tests as recommended by the national cancer institute , the american cancer society , and the u.s. preventive services task force . performance rates are consistently below published standards for all tests except pap tests . major reasons physicians do not perform the recommended tests include physician forgetfulness , disagreement with recommendations , lack of time , and patient refusal . physicians also tend to overestimate their own performance rates . barriers to screening test performance can be categorized into patient factors , physician factors , test factors , and health care delivery system factors . interventions , such as computerized reminder systems , physician audits with feedback , and patient education and reminders , can be effective in promoting performance of such screening . interventions that target both physician and patient may be particularly effective . 
implementation of preventive services in an hmo practice . practice does not conform to guidelines unless the guidelines are specifically implemented and performance is monitored . several examples of implementation in one health maintenance organization ( hmo ) are given . these include immunization for influenza and follow up of positive screening tests for colorectal and cervical cancer . each implementation effort has required the development of systems , which in this hmo are automated . several issues influencing implementation are discussed , including resource constraints and priorities for the allocation of new resources . developers can not expect that their guidelines will be incorporated into clinical practice . they must foster specific implementation plans . 
breast cancer screening : who should be included ? the recommendations of the u.s. preventive services task force are reviewed in regard to screening for breast cancer . in contradistinction to those issued by some other national organizations , screening for breast cancer using mammography at ages 40-49 is not recommended . it is concluded that the scientific evidence is insufficient at present to recommend mammography screening for women aged 40-49 . the recommendations of the task force are : all women over age 40 should receive an annual breast examination ; all women should have mammography every one or two years beginning at age 50 and concluding at approximately age 75 unless disease has been detected ; and it may be prudent to begin mammography at an earlier age for women at high risk of breast cancer . these recommendations are appropriate in light of the available evidence ; though at present there is no evidence that clinical examination of the breasts at any age reduces breast cancer mortality ; the upper age beyond which breast cancer screening no longer has a significant effect in reducing breast cancer mortality is unknown ; and there is no evidence that women at high risk for breast cancer benefit to a different degree from screening than women not at high risk . 
colorectal cancer : have we identified an effective screening strategy ? three currently used screening methods are aimed at detecting colorectal cancer when it is asymptomatic and curable , and at detecting polyps so that they can be removed before they can progress to cancer . digital rectal examinations are relatively cheap and easy but can detect only a small fraction of large-bowel cancers . sigmoidoscopy is more sensitive , but its low acceptability to patients has been only partially mitigated by the introduction of the 35-cm flexible instrument . fecal occult blood testing has limited sensitivity because blood from cancers and polyps is neither continuously shed nor uniformly distributed in feces ; specificity and positive predictive value are also low because of other sources of blood in the stool . prudent judgment suggests that all of these screening tests may prevent death from colorectal cancer in some patients . however , none has been proven effective in general use by well-controlled studies . case-control studies can provide timely and valuable new evidence in this regard ; the authors ' investigations in progress are described . the current lack of strong evidence in support of these screening tests should not be interpreted as evidence against their use . 
the impact of the u.s. preventive services task force guidelines on cancer screening : perspective from the national cancer institute . the u.s. preventive services task force evaluated the medical literature , utilizing strict criteria to judge the merits of experimental trials designed to show benefit in screening for cancer . for individuals at normal risk , the task force was not able to make recommendations for or against screening for colorectal , prostate , skin , oral , or testicular cancers . only one physical-examination cancer-screening procedure has ever been tested in a randomized trial . during the past 27 years , the national cancer institute ( nci ) has funded six randomized screening trials . thus far , only one has shown a decrease in mortality . recognizing the limitations of such trials , the nci published " working guidelines for early cancer detection . " designed for the practicing physician , these guidelines were based upon the best available evidence and on the judgment of representatives of medical professional organizations . 
squamous cell carcinoma-antigen for detection of squamous cell and mucoepidermoid carcinoma after primary treatment : a preliminary report . this study evaluated the efficacy of using the periodic measurement of the serum level of squamous cell carcinoma antigen ( scc-antigen ) for determining the local recurrence and/or metastasis of squamous cell and mucoepidermoid carcinomas after primary treatment . it was found that at the time of clinical recognition of recurrence , the scc-antigen level was normal , but metastasis to regional lymph nodes or to remote organs generally was accompanied by an increase of scc-antigen . changes in the scc-antigen level with mucoepidermoid carcinoma seemed to be less sensitive than with squamous cell carcinoma . 
pedunculated soft-tissue mass on the alveolar gingiva [ clinical conference ] a case of peripheral ameloblastoma , a rare intraoral neoplasm , has been presented . the lesion appears most commonly as a mass on the mandibular lingual gingiva of patients in their fifth and sixth decades of life . the peripheral ameloblastoma does not share the aggressive nature of the intraosseous variant . the lesion has been overtreated in the past and warrants only a local supraperiosteal excision . 
mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst from a patient with muir-torre syndrome . mucous cell proliferation in a periapical radicular cyst from a patient with a family history of colonic malignancies and multiple sebaceous neoplasms of the skin , so-called muir-torre syndrome , is reported . such goblet cell hyperplasia has not been previously reported to be associated with any known syndrome . we believe the finding of mucous cell hyperplasia in an odontogenic cyst may not simply be coincidental , but should raise suspicion of paraneoplastic potential and warrant further evaluation for possible occult neoplastic disease . 
serial magnetic resonance imaging in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy . we prospectively performed magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) studies during the neonatal period , and at 4 and 8 months of age , on 15 term infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy , and compared the results with their neurodevelopmental outcome at 18 months of age . cerebral palsy developed in nine infants , two infants were classified as having abnormalities of tone and delayed motor milestones that were suggestive of cerebral palsy , and four infants were normal . structural abnormalities , delayed myelination , or a combination of the two were detected with mri at 8 months of age in all nine infants with later development of cerebral palsy . three of the four normal infants and one infant with suggestive abnormalities had normal serial mri findings . each of the remaining two infants ( one normal , one with suggestive abnormalities ) had isolated persistent ventricular dilation on all three mri studies . our results suggest that 8 months appears to be the earliest time at which mri findings correlate well with later adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in this population . 
interaction between trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and methotrexate in children with leukemia . because trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ( tmp-smx ) causes neutropenia in children with leukemia , we investigated the possibility that pharmacokinetic interaction between methotrexate ( mtx ) and tmp-smx causes accumulation of the antileukemia agent . we studied the pharmacokinetics of mtx given intravenously or orally to nine children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia , once with and once without tmp-smx . there was an increase in free mtx fraction during tmp-smx therapy in all patients , from ( mean + / - sd ) 37.4 + / - 11 % without tmp-smx to 52.2 + / - 6.4 % with tmp-smx ( p less than 0.01 ) . plasma clearance of total mtx did not change significantly , whereas clearance of free mtx decreased significantly ( from 12.5 + / - 4 to 7.6 + / - 1.5 ml/kg/min ; p less than 0.05 ) . there was a consistent decrease in the renal clearance of free mtx ( from 12.1 + / - 6.8 to 5.6 + / - 2.4 ml/kg/min ; p less than 0.05 ) . elimination half-life of mtx was not affected significantly by tmp-smx . there was a significant correlation between serum concentrations of tmp-smx and the percentage of decrease in the renal clearance of free mtx ( r = 0.91 ; p less than 0.05 ) . these changes in protein binding and tubular clearance of mtx , caused by competition with tmp-smx , result in a mean 66 % increase in systemic exposure to mtx and may explain the myelotoxicity often observed with the coadministration of the two drugs . 
laparoscopic management of ovarian cysts . one hundred two women with ovarian cysts were managed laparoscopically over a 13-year period . thirteen were treated with laparoscopic inspection followed by laparotomy , 6 with laparoscopic fine needle aspiration followed by laparotomy and 83 with laparoscopic fenestration and biopsy , with or without coagulation or removal of the cyst lining . satisfactory results were noted in patients treated completely with laparoscopy . only 1 of 56 functional , simple or paraovarian cysts recurred during the study period . two of the 18 ovarian endometriomas treated with fenestration and coagulation or removal of the lining recurred , whereas 8 of 9 such lesions recurred when treated with fenestration alone . there were no surgical complications . 
expression of the mdr1 gene in human gastric and colorectal carcinomas . we measured expression of the mdr1 gene ( also known as the pgy1 gene ) in the human gastrointestinal tract . mdr1 messenger rna ( mrna ) levels were elevated in 13 of 15 colorectal carcinoma specimens and in six of 13 gastric carcinoma specimens . well-differentiated colorectal carcinomas contained significantly higher concentrations of mdr1 mrna than moderately differentiated colorectal carcinomas . similarly , moderately differentiated gastric carcinomas contained higher concentrations of mdr1 mrna than poorly differentiated gastric carcinomas . mdr1 gene expression in normal colorectal and gastric tissues adjacent to carcinomas was similar to that in the carcinomas . mdr1 gene expression in xenografts of colorectal and gastric carcinomas in nude mice was also investigated . elevated expression of the mdr1 gene was seen in only four of 18 xenografts of colorectal carcinoma and was not seen in any xenografts of gastric carcinoma . p-glycoprotein was distributed over the luminal surface of the colorectal carcinoma . these results imply that the higher levels of mdr1 mrna found in well-differentiated carcinomas derived from colorectal tissues are the results of increased expression of the mdr1 gene in the luminal surface cells . the level of expression of the mdr1 gene in colorectal and gastric carcinomas appears to correlate with the degree of differentiation and also appears to be affected by transplantation into nude mice . 
race , nutritional status , and survival from breast cancer . the effects of nutritional status on differences in the survival of black and white women with breast cancer were studied in a cohort of 1,960 georgia women diagnosed during 1975-1979 . after data were adjusted for stage of disease , socioeconomic status , and other prognostic factors , poorer survival rates were shown in black women . within each stage classification , lower levels of serum albumin and hemoglobin and higher relative body weight were more common among blacks and were independently associated with poorer survival . among women with stage 3 disease , adjustment for these variables substantially reduced the excess mortality rate among blacks , suggesting that racial differences in survival may be partly explained by differences in nutritional status or extent of disease within stage . 
effect of tamoxifen on serum insulinlike growth factor i levels in stage i breast cancer patients . insulinlike growth factor i ( igf-i ) has been shown to be a potent mitogen for breast cancer cells in vitro , and igf-i receptors have been demonstrated on human primary breast neoplasms . in a randomized , placebo-controlled study , we document that administration of the antiestrogen tamoxifen to patients with breast cancer was associated with a statistically significant ( p = .002 ) reduction in the serum level of igf-i . the mean igf-i level was 1.4 u/ml in the placebo-treated group and 0.9 u/ml in the tamoxifen-treated group . because serum igf-i level is growth hormone ( gh ) dependent and because data suggest that the pubertal surge in gh and igf-i levels is sex steroid dependent , we speculate that the mechanism underlying our observation may involve blockade by tamoxifen of estrogen action in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis . we conclude that tamoxifen treatment reduces igf-i levels and that this reduction may contribute to the therapeutic effect of the drug . 
reduction of the membrane fluidity of human breast cancer cells by tamoxifen and 17 beta-estradiol . the intracellular steady-state levels of methotrexate were previously shown to be reduced in estrogen receptor ( er ) - negative human breast cancer mda-mb-436 cells and er-positive human breast cancer mcf7 cells following treatment with pharmacologically relevant concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol ( e2 ) . we now report that both e2 and tamoxifen ( tmx ) significantly decreased the fluidity of mcf7 and mda-mb-436 cellular membranes . with e2 or tmx at concentrations greater than 1 microm , perturbations in membrane fluidity were accompanied by apparently non-er-mediated cytotoxicity . alterations in membrane structure may have contributed to the cytotoxicity of high-dose endocrine therapy and to the ability of e2 to inhibit methotrexate transport and cytotoxicity in some human breast cancer cells . 
antitumor activity of liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin in advanced breast cancer : phase ii study . previous studies in animals have demonstrated liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin ( led ) has substantially less cardiac toxicity than free doxorubicin but retains antitumor activity . in a phase i clinical study of led , the maximum tolerated dose was 90 mg/m2 and dose-limiting toxicity was considered to have been reached when granulocytopenia was produced . we used led to treat 20 patients with advanced , measurable breast cancer . led was given at doses of 60-75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks as an intravenous infusion . regression of disease was objectively measured in nine patients ; in five of these patients , complete regression of the index lesion occurred . the mean duration of the responses was 7 months . hematologic toxicity consisted of grade 1-2 leukopenia in some patients . gastrointestinal toxicity and mucositis were generally mild and tolerable . alopecia occurred in all patients and usually was complete . twelve patients received cumulative doses of led of greater than 400 mg/m2 and were evaluated with radionuclide ventriculograms . in eight patients , the cumulative dose was greater than 500 mg/m2 , and five had endomyocardial biopsies . four of these biopsy results were billingham grade 0 , while one ( cumulative led dose , 750 mg/m2 ) showed grade 1 changes with mild myofibrillar loss and dilatation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum involving less than 5 % of cardiac myocytes . two patients had decreases in left ventricular ejection fraction . one of these patients had received a total dose of led of 630 mg/m2 and had a decline of 13 % in left ventricular ejection fraction , but had no clinical evidence of congestive heart failure and had a billingham grade 0 endomyocardial biopsy . 
oral zidovudine , continuous-infusion fluorouracil , and oral leucovorin calcium : a phase i study . a phase i clinical , pharmacologic , and biochemical evaluation of escalating oral zidovudine ( azt ) given over 2 days with a fixed dose of continuous-infusion fluorouracil ( 800 mg/m2 per day x 3 days ) and oral leucovorin calcium was performed . eighteen patients were treated with doses of azt ranging from 1.0 to 9.0 g/m2 per day . nausea and vomiting were dose limiting , with a maximally tolerated dose of 7.5 g/m2 per day . rash and mucositis occurred but were not dose limiting . a dose-related increase in peak plasma levels of azt was observed , and the alpha half-life of azt in plasma ( 75 min ) was unaffected by these high doses . at doses above 4.0 g/m2 per day , trough levels significantly increased , perhaps reflecting prolonged absorption from the gut . no responses were observed ; however , a significant increase in dna single-strand breaks was observed in peripheral blood cells after a threshold dose of 4.0 g/m2 per day , confirming a biological effect of azt in this regimen . further trials with an intravenous formulation capable of maintaining plasma levels and circumventing dose-limiting toxicity are warranted . 
validation of intermediate end points in cancer research . investigations using intermediate end points as cancer surrogates are quicker , smaller , and less expensive than studies that use malignancy as the end point . we present a strategy for determining whether a given biomarker is a valid intermediate end point between an exposure and incidence of cancer . candidate intermediate end points may be selected from case series , ecologic studies , and animal experiments . prospective cohort and sometimes case-control studies may be used to quantify the intermediate end point-cancer association . the most appropriate measure of this association is the attributable proportion . the intermediate end point is a valid cancer surrogate if the attributable proportion is close to 1.0 , but not if it is close to 0 . usually , the attributable proportion is close to neither 1.0 nor 0 ; in this case , valid surrogacy requires that the intermediate end point mediate an established exposure-cancer relation . this would in turn imply that the exposure effect would vanish if adjusted for the intermediate end point . we discuss the relative advantages of intervention and observational studies for the validation of intermediate end points . this validation strategy also may be applied to intermediate end points for adverse reproductive outcomes and chronic diseases other than cancer . 
inhibition of invasion of invasive human bladder carcinoma cells by protein kinase c inhibitor staurosporine . to study the effect of the protein kinase c ( pkc ) inhibitor staurosporine on invasion , we selected the invasive human bladder carcinoma cell line ej . total pkc activity was more than twofold higher in the ej cells than in rt4 cells ( superficial human bladder carcinoma cells ) , which do not pass through an artificial basement membrane . there was more pkc activity in the cytosol than in the membrane of ej cells . staurosporine , at nontoxic concentrations , inhibited the invasion of ej cells through an artificial basement membrane in a dose-dependent manner . staurosporine caused a dose-dependent inhibition of cell motility but did not inhibit cell attachment . staurosporine represents a new agent for the inhibition of tumor cell invasion and may prove useful in studying the mechanisms responsible for this phenomenon . 
anti-idiotype monoclonal antibody carrying the internal image of ganglioside gm3 . murine anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies were generated against a human igm monoclonal antibody ( l612 ) that recognizes ganglioside gm3 on human melanoma . hybridomas secreting antibodies that bound specifically to l612 were selected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using l612 and three negative control human igms , including monoclonal anti-gm2 and anti-gd2 antibodies , as well as purified serum igm , as antigen sources . gm3-binding inhibition and cell-binding inhibition assays were used to identify seven anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies that recognized determinants located within the antigen-combining sites of l612 . to determine whether these anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies possessed the internal image of the original antigen , we immunized syngeneic balb/c mice with one of the anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies , 4c10 , coupled with keyhole limpet hemocyanin . sera from the immunized mice reacted strongly with an antigen-positive m12 melanoma cell line and with purified gm3 . because l612 detects and kills melanoma tumor cells in vitro and in vivo in the presence of complement without affecting normal tissues , anti-idiotype monoclonal antibodies carrying the internal image of gm3 may be an effective tool for active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma . 
nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities in primary uveal melanoma . we report on 14 cases of clonal chromosomal anomalies in patients with primary uveal melanoma . an increased dosage of chromosome 8 or of parts of the long arm of chromosome 8 ( 8q ) were detected in eight patients ( 57 % ) . the smallest multiplied area of 8q appeared to be the region 8q2 .1 ---- qter . monosomy of chromosome 3 was seen in six patients ( 43 % ) , five of which were associated with anomalies of chromosome 8 . increased dosage of parts of chromosome 8q and loss of heterozygosity of chromosome 3 , or the combination of both , seemed to be nonrandom for uveal melanoma and may distinguish it genetically from cutaneous malignant melanoma . anomalies of chromosome 6 , mostly resulting in additional material of 6p or a deletion of 6q , were found in six patients ( 43 % ) . these anomalies , which seem to be common features of cutaneous malignant melanoma , were considered secondary rather than primary changes in uveal melanoma , since they were present only in subclones in most cases . loss of the y chromosome , restricted to tumor cells , was detected in four male patients , and loss of one x chromosome was detected in a female patient . 
prospective study of the frequency and size distribution of polyps missed by colonoscopy . an important determinant in interpreting the results of colorectal polyp chemoprevention trials is the rate of polyps missed during colonscopic examination . we prospectively examined 90 patients by tandem colonoscopy performed by two alternating examiners . in 69 ( 76.7 % ) patients , 221 neoplastic lesions were documented histologically . of a total of 58 lesions detected in 31 patients , no neoplastic lesion greater than or equal to 10 mm in size was missed ; 16 % of diminutive ( less than or equal to 5 mm ) neoplastic polyps and 12.3 % of medium-sized ( 6-9 mm ) neoplastic polyps were missed by the first examiner . we conclude that an experienced colonoscopist will miss about 15 % of colorectal neoplastic polyps less than 10 mm in size in the setting of adequate bowel preparation . large ( greater than or equal to 10 mm ) polyps were rarely missed , however , with the " miss " rate in our study equal to 0 , with a 95 % confidence limit of 4.64 % . 
mutagen sensitivity in patients with head and neck cancers : a biologic marker for risk of multiple primary malignancies . eighty-four patients with head and neck cancers were evaluated for in vitro sensitivity to mutagens and then followed longitudinally for development of multiple primary malignancies . we assessed mutagen sensitivity by exposing lymphocytes to bleomycin in vitro and quantitating the bleomycin-induced chromosomal breaks per cell . the mutagen-hypersensitive patients , ie , those who expressed greater than 1.0 break per cell , were significantly more likely to develop multiple primary cancers than were patients who were less sensitive ( less than or equal to 1.0 break per cell ) ( relative risk = 4.4 ; 95 % confidence limits = 1.2 , 15.8 ) . this relationship was independent of age , sex , site , and treatment of first primary cancer and tobacco or alcohol exposures . sensitivity to bleomycin-induced chromosomal damage serves as an indicator of genetic susceptibility to multiple primary malignancies in patients with head and neck cancers . 
parotid gland and facial nerve trauma : a retrospective review . included in this study are all patients with trauma to the parotid region seen at our center from 1979 to 1989 . there was a total of five patients with injury to the parotid area : two patients with isolated facial nerve injury ; one with isolated parotid duct injury ; two with combined duct and nerve injury . there were four males and one female , with a mean age of 34 years ( range , 16 to 62 years ) . the three patients with parotid duct injury required other procedures for associated trauma . a total of eight nerve branches were severed in four patients . seven of the eight nerve branches ( 82.5 % ) were primarily repaired , with excellent functional results . two of the three ductal injuries were repaired primarily over a stent , and one was ligated . no complications resulted from either treatment . based on our clinical experience and review of the literature , we suggest that the treatment of parotid region injuries should include : 1 ) a complete initial assessment ; 2 ) primary repair of parotid duct transection within 24 hours when possible ; 3 ) primary repair of all facial nerve injuries , although delayed nerve repair remains a viable alternative ; and 4 ) nonsurgical treatment of sialoceles and fistulae . 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy in invasive bladder cancer : the evolving role of surgery . the role of an operation in patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy for clinically localized but invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder currently is evolving . an operation is essential for case selection and evaluation of local response but it also contributes to bladder preservation and survival . the procedure that is necessary to select for and assess response to chemotherapy may itself alter the actual or proceed to evolution of invasive bladder cancer . neoadjuvant chemotherapy is a reasonable therapeutic strategy in selected patients but it remains to be seen whether the results will prove to be superior to those achieved with standard endoscopic and open operations . 
incidence and properties of renal masses and asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma detected by abdominal ultrasonography . renal ultrasonography was performed in 45,905 adults , including 41,364 without any signs suggesting urinary tract malignancies , 1,667 with microscopic hematuria only and 2,874 with some signs of malignancy . renal lesions were found in 355 adults ( 0.858 % ) in the asymptomatic , 39 ( 2.3 % ) in the microscopic hematuria and 75 ( 2.6 % ) in the symptomatic groups , respectively . renal cell carcinoma was found in 35 ( 7.5 % ) lesions : 19 ( 5.4 % ) in the asymptomatic , none in the microscopic hematuria and 16 ( 21.3 % ) in the symptomatic groups . a total of 47 patients , including 12 other renal cell carcinoma patients transferred from related hospitals , was grouped into 28 without and 19 with symptoms . primary tumor size and clinical stages were significantly smaller and lower , respectively , in the asymptomatic group than in the symptomatic group . radical nephrectomy was performed in all but 2 asymptomatic patients . the 5-year survival rates after nephrectomy were 94.7 and 60.9 % for the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) . the results indicate that ultrasonography is a useful tool to detect low stage asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma at low cost . 
magnetic resonance imaging for assessment of vena caval tumor thrombi : a comparative study with venacavography and computerized tomography scanning . we assessed the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in demonstrating the presence and extent of vena caval tumor thrombi . the study group included 20 patients with vena caval thrombi from renal cell carcinoma ( 18 ) , renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma ( 1 ) and adrenal pheochromocytoma ( 1 ) . preoperative diagnostic studies included magnetic resonance imaging in all patients , inferior venacavography in 16 and computerized tomography scanning in 15 . all patients underwent an operation in which the presence and extent of the vena caval thrombus were confirmed . magnetic resonance imaging accurately delineated the presence and extent of the thrombus in all 20 patients ( 100 % ) . venacavography was accurate in 15 patients ( 94 % ) but 8 ( 50 % ) required a retrograde and antegrade study . computerized tomography scanning demonstrated the presence of a tumor thrombus in all 15 patients but accurately delineated the cephalad extent of the thrombus in only 5 ( 33 % ) . in patients with vena caval tumor thrombi magnetic resonance imaging can provide accurate information regarding the extent of vena caval involvement while avoiding the need for an invasive contrast imaging study . 
ureterosigmoidostomy : long-term results , risk of carcinoma and etiological factors for carcinogenesis . we followed postoperatively 75 patients who underwent ureterosigmoidostomy between 1942 and 1987 . of the patients 30 were asked to undergo routine examination , including fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy with biopsy and analysis of a urine-feces slurry for nitrate , nitrite and nitrosamines in comparison to 20 control volunteers . after a mean observation of 14 years 7 months ( 1 to 46 years ) 64.5 % of the patients had bilaterally normal kidneys without any previous complications , 77.5 % of the renal units being normal . sigmoidoscopic biopsy revealed 3 carcinomas at the ureterocolonic junction resulting in an 8.5 to 10.5-fold increased risk of colon carcinoma compared to the general population . the excretion of nitrite and n-nitrosamines was increased , and nitrate excretion was decreased compared to healthy control volunteers , suggesting endogenous formation of nitrosamines by bacterially reduced nitrate and endogenous amines . the urological long-term results of ureterosigmoidostomy are similar to those of conduits . however , the increased incidence of colon carcinoma is not yet proved to be higher than in conduits . 
primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder : favorable prognostic significance of deoxyribonucleic acid diploidy measured by flow cytometry . flow cytometric nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy analysis was done successfully on 38 specimens of primary bladder adenocarcinoma treated between 1954 and 1985 . of the specimens 10 ( 26 % ) were deoxyribonucleic acid diploid , 8 ( 21 % ) were tetraploid and 20 ( 53 % ) were aneuploid . distribution of ploidy patterns between the 14 histological low grade and 24 high grade tumors was similar . of 38 tumors 35 ( 92 % ) showed muscle invasion . one tumor arose in a previously exstrophied bladder , 10 were of urachal origin and 27 arose in an anatomically normal bladder . of the urachal origin tumors 80 % were deoxyribonucleic acid aneuploid . at 5 and 10 years after diagnosis 80 and 70 % , respectively , of the patients with diploid tumors were free of disease . by contrast , at 5 and 10 years after treatment only 20 and 12 % , respectively , of the patients with nondiploid tumors have not had disease progression ( p less than 0.001 log-rank test ) . none of the 6 patients with diploid , high grade , high stage , muscle invasive tumors had subsequent progression . in contrast , 16 of 17 patients ( 94 % ) with high grade , high stage , nondiploid tumors had either local or distant tumor recurrence ( p less than 0.0005 ) . nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy pattern appears to be the most significant prognostic information currently available to stratify expected prognosis for patients with muscle invasive adenocarcinoma of the bladder . this test probably should be a standard tool in the clinical management of patients with this rare bladder malignancy . 
randomized phase ii evaluation of carboplatin and chip in advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium . the eastern cooperative oncology group . a total of 83 patients with metastatic transitional cell carcinoma who had previously received no systemic therapy entered a randomized phase ii evaluation of carboplatin and cis-dichloro-transdihydroxy-bis-isopropylamine platinum iv ( chip ) , administered respectively at 400 and 270 mg . / m. 2 every 28 days . among evaluable patients with measurable disease response rates were 3 of 22 ( 14 % , 95 % confidence interval 5 to 35 % ) for carboplatin and 4 of 25 ( 16 % , 95 % confidence interval 5 to 36 % ) for chip . among 17 patients with evaluable but not measurable metastases ( 10 carboplatin and 7 chip recipients ) there were no responses . median survival for 64 evaluable patients was 4.8 months ( 5.0 months for carboplatin and 4.3 months for chip recipients ) . independent factors prognostic for survival ( p less than 0.01 ) were performance status ( 0 or 1 versus 2 or 3 ) , liver metastases , prior radiation therapy and recent weight loss ( p = 0.02 ) . multivariate analysis confirmed that a performance status of 2 or 3 and liver metastases were predictive of shorter survival . a total of 31 % of the patients treated with carboplatin and 34 % of those who received chip experienced severe or life-threatening myelosuppression . while the response rates with carboplatin and chip are modest , we believe that the characteristics of these agents indicate that they should be evaluated further . 
perioperative methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin and cisplatin ( m-vac ) for poor risk transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder : an eastern cooperative oncology group pilot study . a total of 18 patients with locally advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder underwent 2 preoperative cycles of chemotherapy with methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin and cisplatin followed by radical cystectomy and 2 postoperative cycles of chemotherapy . radical cystectomy was performed in 17 of 18 patients ( 94 % ) with a pathological partial response in 3 ( 17 % ) and a pathological complete response in 2 ( 11 % ) , for an over-all response rate of 28 % ( 95 % confidence limits 10 to 53 % ) . at 23-month median followup 9 patients ( 50 % ) remained without evidence of recurrent disease , while 9 ( 50 % ) died of metastatic bladder cancer . average relative dose intensity of all therapy given was 78 % . hematological toxicity was moderate , with no septic deaths or bleeding complications . however , 4 thromboembolic events occurred . while downstaging of the primary bladder tumor can occur with this perioperative schedule our results were not as impressive as some previously reported findings . the incidence of thromboembolic events is worrisome . 
local recurrence and survival following nerve-sparing radical cystoprostatectomy . from march 1982 through july 1988 , 76 men underwent nerve-sparing radical cystoprostatectomy for carcinoma of the bladder at our hospital . of the 76 patients 2 ( 2.6 % ) had positive surgical margins ( dome of the bladder and left ureter ) and neither had positive margins at the site of nerve-sparing modifications . of 3 patients ( 3.9 % ) who had local recurrence none had positive surgical margins . the 5-year actuarial local recurrence rate is 7.5 % . thirteen of 76 patients ( 17 % ) died of transitional cell carcinoma and 7 ( 9 % ) died of other causes , while 53 ( 70 % ) are alive without evidence of disease with a mean followup of 38.4 months . the 5-year actuarial survival rates are 64 % over-all , 68 % without disease and 78 % disease-specific . of the 42 evaluable men who underwent cystoprostatectomy alone 27 ( 64 % ) are potent , compared to 2 of the 12 men ( 17 % ) who also underwent urethrectomy . we conclude that the nerve-sparing modifications do not compromise cancer control , that local recurrence and survival rates are at least comparable to those achieved with standard radical cystoprostatectomy , and that it is possible to preserve potency in most men undergoing this procedure . 
testicular carcinoma in patients positive and at risk for human immunodeficiency virus . patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome are at increased risk for certain malignancies . because acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and testicular cancer affect primarily young men , the potential complications that acquired immunodeficiency syndrome might impose raise significant concern . to address this question we performed a retrospective review of all cases of testicular cancer during an 11-year period . of 140 patients 6 had human immunodeficiency virus infection and 7 were from human immunodeficiency virus risk groups . all cases were either stage i or ii disease with seminoma in 8 , teratocarcinoma in 3 , embryonal cell carcinoma in 1 and teratoma in 1 . the clinical presentations of these patients were comparable to those of patients without human immunodeficiency virus risk factors . the majority of the patients received standard therapy , including orchiectomy followed by lymphadenectomy , radiation therapy or chemotherapy depending on stage and pathological subtype . patients tolerated therapy well with only 1 course of radiation therapy complicated by pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . all patients achieved complete remission and none died of testicular cancer . since treatment of these patients may worsen the immunosuppression , surveillance is recommended after orchiectomy for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients with stage i disease . however , the majority of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection should receive standard therapy . 
clinical stage 1 testicular cancer : the role of modified retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy . a total of 85 patients underwent modified retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy for clinical stage i nonseminomatous germ cell tumor of the testis from 1982 to 1989 . the technique was a modified bilateral dissection via a thoracoabdominal approach . a full bilateral dissection was done above the level of the inferior mesenteric artery but unilateral dissection was performed below the inferior mesenteric artery using a template method . of the 85 patients 64 had pathological stage a and 21 had stage b1 disease . relapses have occurred in 4 of 64 stage a cancer patients ( 6 % ) and 3 of 21 stage b1 cancer patients ( 15 % ) . antegrade ejaculation was preserved without pharmacological therapy in 75 of 85 patients ( 88 % ) and 5 others were converted to antegrade ejaculation with imipramine . therefore , 80 of 85 patients ( 94 % ) have recovered antegrade ejaculation . with a median followup of 38 months 7 relapses have been noted . we conclude that modified retroperitoneal lymph node dissection allows for preservation of ejaculation , decreases concern about retroperitoneal understaging and represents the preferred alternative to surveillance protocols for patients with low stage testicular cancer . 
erythrocyte polyamine levels in human prostatic carcinoma . abnormally high red blood cell polyamine levels were found in benign prostatic hyperplasia and in prostatic adenocarcinoma patients . in prostatic adenocarcinoma patients a relationship was noted between the importance of red blood cell spermidine and spermine concentrations , and the clinical stage of the disease ( whitmore classification ) . considering prostatic adenocarcinoma patient populations , patients with metastases ( groups 3 and 4 ) statistically differed from those without metastases ( group 2 ) . furthermore , red blood cell polyamine level determination discriminated patients in the hormonal escape group ( group 4 ) from those usually considered as hormone responsive ( groups 2 and 3 ) . no statistically significant correlation was observed between red blood cell polyamine levels and usual tumor markers ( prostatic acid phosphatase and prostate specific antigen ) . these results confirmed that red blood cell polyamine levels must be considered as a circulating index of cell proliferation that might be of clinical importance during the long-term followup and treatment of prostatic adenocarcinoma patients . 
the relationship of prostate specific antigen levels and residual tumor volume in stage a prostate cancer . preoperative serum prostate specific antigen correlates well with morphometrically determined prostate tumor volume in prostatectomy specimens . however , since prostate specific antigen is produced by hyperplastic as well as malignant prostatic epithelium , the contribution of hyperplastic epithelium ( benign prostatic hyperplasia ) to serum prostate specific antigen interferes with the ability of serum prostate specific antigen to predict tumor volume in individual patients . we wondered if the removal of benign prostatic hyperplasia tissue would increase the correlation between prostate specific antigen and tumor volume , and , thus , make prostate specific antigen a more accurate predictor of residual cancer volume after transurethral resection of the prostate . a total of 67 patients with clinical stage a cancer underwent radical retropubic prostatectomy ( 22 , or 33 % , with stage a1 and 45 , or 67 % , with stage a2 disease ) , and had pre-radical prostatectomy measurement of serum prostate specific antigen and morphometric determination of residual cancer volume in the radical prostatectomy specimen . the correlation between serum prostate specific antigen and residual cancer volume for all 67 patients was 0.66 , and for stages a1 and a2 disease it was 0.64 and 0.70 , respectively . all stage a1 cancer patients with a serum prostate specific antigen value of 1 ng . / ml . or less had residual tumor volumes of less than 0.5 cc and all stage a cancer patients with a serum prostate specific antigen value of more than 10 ng . / ml . had residual tumor volumes of greater than 0.5 cc . of the patients 51 % had levels of 1 to 10 ng . / ml . and serum prostate specific antigen was not useful to predict residual tumor volume in this group . serum prostate specific antigen measurements may be helpful in stage a1 cancer patients with levels of 1 ng . / ml . or less , or greater than 10 ng . / ml . in choosing the most appropriate therapy . 
prostate specific antigen for assessing response to ketoconazole and prednisone in patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer . serial prostate specific antigen levels were assessed in 15 patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer treated with ketoconazole and prednisone . of the men 12 ( 80 % ) with continually increasing prostate specific antigen levels before treatment had a decrease in prostate specific antigen with a median duration of response of 3 months . three patients ( 20 % ) had a prolonged response ( greater than or equal to 8 months ) as seen by a persistently decreasing prostate specific antigen and improvement in bone pain . there appears to be a small subgroup of patients with progressive prostate cancer despite androgen ablation who will benefit from ketoconazole and glucocorticoid treatment . the use of serial prostate specific antigen levels appears to help define this subgroup and avoid the need for multiple radiological procedures to assess response . 
radical prostatectomy for clinical stage t1-2n0m0 prostatic adenocarcinoma : long-term results . a total of 441 stage t1-2n0m0 and 11 stage t1-2n0m0 cancer patients with an elevated acid phosphatase level only , and 18 stage t1-2n + m0 cancer patients underwent radical prostatectomy . analysis of the 441 stage t1-2n0m0 cancer patients demonstrated that failure and survival were a function of the disease being organ-confined , specimen-confined or margin-positive , with 10-year failure rates of 12 , 30 and 60 % , respectively . of the patients with positive margins 44 were and 79 were not irradiated postoperatively . postoperative radiation produced no survival advantage . no difference in interval to failure or of survival could be identified between 105 patients whose disease was diagnosed by transurethral resection and 328 who had a palpable abnormality . eleven patients had negative bone and node findings but they had an elevated acid phosphatase level . all 8 patients not treated with immediate androgen deprivation failed within 36 months . 
pheochromocytoma in the pediatric age group : the prostate -- an unusual location . pheochromocytomas of the prostate are rare , with only 3 cases in adults reported in the literature . we present the case of an 8-year-old boy with a pheochromocytoma of the prostate and a second tumor in the region of the left internal iliac artery . 
nuclear morphometry as a prognostic indicator for genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma : a preliminary investigation . rhabdomyosarcoma of the urogenital tract is a malignant mesenchymal tumor seen primarily in childhood . multimodal therapy , encompassing surgery , radiotherapy and chemotherapy , has dramatically improved the survival of patients with this disease . however , the quest for markers of tumor aggression is important to decrease the morbidity of treatment given to patients with good prognosis tumors , while at the same time intensifying treatment of tumors with poor prognosis . using archival tumor specimens from 13 patients with genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma , a multivariate analysis of multiple nuclear shape descriptors was done with the hopkins morphometry system . three nuclear shape descriptors clearly separated patients with no evidence of disease recurrence or progression from those with recurrent disease , progressive disease or death of disease . these nuclear shape descriptors were standard error of the chain code standard deviation analysis ( p = 0.010 ) , range of the feret ellipticity distribution ( p = 0.016 ) and standard error of the chain code range analysis ( p = 0.037 ) . with multivariate analysis these shape descriptors taken together separated patients with good and poor prognoses to a level of significance of p = 0.007 . thus , nuclear morphometric analysis may prove to be useful as an individual prognostic indicator in childhood genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma and warrants further analysis in a much larger , blinded , controlled study . 
de novo carcinoma of the lower urinary tract in renal allograft recipients . immunocompetence has been postulated as an important defense against the progression of urothelial carcinoma . three cases of de novo lower urinary tract carcinoma in renal transplant recipients demonstrated the potential for unusually rapid urothelial extension and invasion in chronically immunosuppressed patients . two patients had a history of perineal condyloma acuminata ; tumors from 1 of these harbored the genetic sequences of human papillomavirus type 6 . one patient had multiple manifestations of cyclophosphamide-related urothelial injury , including bladder carcinoma . treatment of 2 patients culminated in a radical operation during which the remaining native urinary system was resected completely , with sacrifice of the allograft kidney in 1 and diversion into an ileal conduit in 1 . the remaining patient underwent urethrectomy and partial cystectomy with a sigmoid conduit . 
retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in malignant mesothelioma of tunica vaginalis testis . a case of metastatic mesothelioma of the tunica vaginalis testis in a 57-year-old man is reported . clinicopathological findings and treatment options are reviewed . 
long term effects of gastrocystoplasty in rats . twenty prepubescent rats underwent microsurgical gastrocystoplasty by a technique which is described . an equal number of control rats had their bladders opened and closed . rats were sacrificed at 16 to 18 months postoperatively . there were no differences in final weight , serum electrolytes , or renal function between the two groups . prominent histopathologic changes of the bladder occurred in the gastrocystoplasty group . these changes included papillomas present in five of the 15 rats surviving long term . no significant changes occurred in the bladders of the control group of rats . possible etiologies and the significance of the rats . possible etiologies and the significance of the gastrocystoplasty related lesions are discussed . 
fatal sepsis following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin administration for bladder cancer . intravesical administration of bacillus calmette-guerin has been shown to be highly effective treatment of superficial bladder cancer . complications from bacillus calmette-guerin therapy are usually minor but serious and even fatal reactions can occur . five recent cases illustrate the gravity of bacillus calmette-guerin sepsis . one man with severe debility and the organic brain syndrome died acutely with a fever of 40 c. two men had frank sepsis that progressed to multiorgan failure and death . sepsis progressed despite the use of isoniazid , rifampin and streptomycin . two men who had equally progressive sepsis with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin survived with the use of cycloserine for the first 72 hours of treatment . triple antituberculous antibiotics , including cycloserine , may be lifesaving . sepsis resulted from intravenous absorption through inflamed or disrupted urothelium . bacillus calmette-guerin treatment should not be administered in the presence of severe cystitis or after grossly traumatic catheterization . 
fatal disseminated mycobacterial infection following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin . we describe a fatal case of disseminated mycobacteriosis after intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin immunotherapy . we summarize the prior safety record of this therapeutic modality , discuss local and systemic pathophysiological mechanisms by which dissemination might have occurred , and review the reported clinical experience with antituberculous chemotherapy for significant bacillus calmette-guerin infection . finally , we offer suggestions for prophylaxis of certain patients with a history of exposure to intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin . 
nephron-sparing surgery for renal cell carcinoma with venous involvement . a nephron-sparing operation recently has been shown to provide extended survival free of disease in selected patients with localized renal cell carcinoma , particularly for tumors of lower stage . to define better the role of conservative surgical treatment in more locally advanced renal cell carcinoma we reviewed 9 patients with venous tumor involvement in solitary functioning kidneys who underwent a nephron-sparing operation . complete tumor resection with adequate preservation of renal function was accomplished in all cases . of the 9 patients 5 had no evidence of disease 7 to 93 months ( mean 33.2 months ) postoperatively . the remaining 4 patients died of metastatic renal cell carcinoma 17 to 47 months ( mean 35.5 months ) postoperatively , 2 of whom had concomitant local recurrences in the renal remnant . based on previously reported results of total nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma with venous involvement and the morbidity associated with renal replacement therapy , we believe that a nephron-sparing operation is a viable option in the management of these patients . 
adverse impact of fibrin clot inhibitors on intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy for superficial bladder tumors . although intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy has proved to be efficacious in the treatment and prophylaxis against tumor recurrence of superficial bladder tumors , its mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated . previous work has suggested that bacillus calmette-guerin organisms attach to the matrix protein , fibronectin , during fibrin clot formation at sites of urothelial disruption and that this attachment was required for the antitumor effect of bacillus calmette-guerin to be expressed . furthermore , drugs inhibiting clot formation were found to abrogate the antitumor effect of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy in a murine bladder tumor model . to examine the effect of inhibitors of fibrin clot formation on the results of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy , a retrospective analysis of 149 evaluable patients receiving intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin for superficial bladder tumors was performed . the over-all response rate free of tumor for 29 patients who concomitantly received inhibitors of fibrin clot formation with bacillus calmette-guerin therapy was 48 % , as compared with 67 % for 120 patients who were not receiving these medications ( p = 0.0655 , chi-square ) . the most striking difference was noted for patients who failed with recurrent superficial disease . of the patients who received fibrin clot inhibitors during intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy 35 % had recurrent superficial tumors compared to only 8 % of those who did not receive these drugs during a mean followup of 29.8 plus or minus 11 months ( p = 0.005 , chi-square ) . our study suggests that inhibitors of fibrin clot formation may have an adverse influence on the results of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy for superficial bladder tumors . 
outpatient flexible cystoscopy and fulguration of recurrent superficial bladder tumors . flexible cystoendoscopy and fulguration were used in the outpatient management of 185 patients with superficial bladder tumors followed for 24 months . this method provided optimal surveillance for recurrence and successful tumor control in selected cases . 
primary malignant lymphoma of the bladder . we treated 11 patients with primary malignant lymphoma of the bladder . the typical patient is a woman more than 50 years old who presents with urgency and frequency of micturition , and occasionally gross hematuria . hydronephrosis is present in half of the patients and cystoscopy usually reveals a solid tumor . partial cystectomy , when feasible , with or without radiotherapy and chemotherapy is the usual treatment modality . when localized to the bladder , malignant lymphoma has an over-all favorable prognosis . 
clinical and pathological findings in prostates following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin instillations . the prostates of 36 patients who were treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin were evaluated by digital rectal examination and transrectal ultrasonography . when abnormal palpatory and/or ultrasonographic findings were detected , core needle biopsies from the suspicious areas were performed . of the 36 patients 20 underwent biopsies of the prostate . pathological findings revealed typical granulomas in 8 patients ( 3 caseating and 5 noncaseating multifocal granulomas ) . nonspecific chronic prostatitis was noted in 4 patients and benign prostatic hyperplasia was noted in 8 . the number of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations ranged from 6 to 19 . the interval from initiation of therapy to biopsy ranged from 1.5 to 14.5 months . caseating granulomas were found during the early course of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations ( 1.5 to 3.0 months ) , whereas noncaseating granulomas were detected at later stages ( 4 to 14.5 months ) . these findings present a high incidence of granuloma formation in patients treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin . the duration of therapy is a determinant factor in the induction of granuloma type . 
the prognostic value of modal deoxyribonucleic acid in low grade , low stage untreated prostate cancer . we selected for a prospective surveillance study 167 patients with untreated grades 1 and 2 prostate cancer . the tumors were classified regarding modal deoxyribonucleic acid value ( ploidy ) by flow cytometry , cytological grade by transrectal fine needle aspiration biopsy and local tumor stage . of the patients 146 could be evaluated . mean followup was 50 months . the initial ploidy was statistically correlated to cytological grade but not to initial local tumor stage , prostatic acid phosphatase activity or patient age . initial ploidy and cytological grade had a prognostic value regarding local tumor progression when considered as single predictors and in combination . two patients with diploid and 8 with nondiploid tumors initially had metastases during the surveillance . five patients ( 1 with diploid and 4 with nondiploid disease ) died of prostatic cancer . modal deoxyribonucleic acid value and cytological grade were of prognostic value in untreated prostate cancer . 
evaluation of tumor progression by repeated fine needle biopsies in prostate adenocarcinoma : modal deoxyribonucleic acid value and cytological differentiation . repeated fine needle aspiration biopsies of the prostate were taken during a period of 24 months or more from 84 patients with untreated prostate cancer . serial followup regarding modal deoxyribonucleic acid values and cytological differentiation of the tumor cells was possible in 72 and 78 patients , respectively . during followup the modal deoxyribonucleic acid values in the tumor cells changed towards an increased aneuploidy in 17 patients and the cytological differentiation decreased in 18 . these findings of a change in modal deoxyribonucleic acid values and cytological differentiation of prostate cancer cells during the course of untreated patients support the concept of a gradual dedifferentiation of prostate cancer . 
management of stage d1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate : the johns hopkins experience 1974 to 1987 . there is no consensus on the proper management of men with stage d1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate . although cure is unlikely , many men survive for long intervals apparently free of metastatic disease . thus , effective palliation of the local lesion with low morbidity is desirable . from 1974 to 1987 , 120 consecutive men with stage d1 prostate cancer were treated with 3 primary modes of therapy ( mean followup 48 months ) : 1 ) expectant therapy ( 35 ) , 2 ) external beam radiotherapy ( 21 ) and 3 ) radical prostatectomy ( 64 ) . these patients were statistically homogeneous as determined by gleason grade but not by extent of metastatic disease . the over-all 5 and 10-year projected actuarial survival rates for the radical prostatectomy patients were 97 and 62 % , respectively , and the apparent clinical survival free of disease at 5 years and 80 months , respectively , was 83 and 68 % . the direct disease-specific 10-year survival free of disease was 46 % . however , only 3 of 27 patients followed for 3 years or longer had undetectable levels of prostate specific antigen . using a cox univariate proportional hazards model several factors appeared to have significant prognostic value including volume of lymph node metastases ( macroscopic greater than 2 mm . ) , percentage of positive lymph nodes sampled and frozen section diagnosis . gleason grade , clinical stage and the number of positive nodes did not have significant prognostic value . local recurrence requiring an operation was noted in 8 of 35 patients ( 23 % ) treated expectantly , 5 of 21 ( 24 % ) treated with radiotherapy and 2 of 64 ( 3 % ) treated with radical prostatectomy . significant gastrointestinal or genitourinary complications occurred in 33 % of the men treated with radiotherapy and 1.5 % of those undergoing radical prostatectomy . since the introduction of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy in 1982 , potency resumed in 55 % of the 33 patients who were potent preoperatively and have been followed 1 year or longer . these data suggest that in properly selected patients radical prostatectomy , although not curative , can provide excellent palliation of the local lesion with acceptable morbidity and that symptomatic local recurrence of prostatic cancer achieved with radiation therapy is identical to the results in men who were managed expectantly . 
total pelvic exenteration with simultaneous bowel and urinary reconstruction . the technique of total pelvic exenteration with simultaneous bowel and urinary reconstruction is described as a surgical option for the management of pelvic sarcoma in adults and for highly selected patients with other types of advanced pelvic malignancy . the surgical technique is presented in detail as performed in a 43-year-old man who presented with extensive primitive pelvic sarcoma . we believe that this approach may provide the benefits of an exenterative operation without the undesirable psychosocial sequelae of a permanent colostomy and external urinary diversion . 
isolated primary aldosteronism in a patient with adrenal carcinoma and xy/xxy mosaic klinefelter 's syndrome . although breast cancer , germ cell tumors and other neoplasms are known to occur in patients with klinefelter 's syndrome , adrenal carcinoma has not yet been reported in such patients . we describe a rare case of severe primary aldosteronism as the unique manifestation of a large adrenocortical carcinoma in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome . complete biological and hormonal evaluation was performed . surgical treatment was successful and the patient remained asymptomatic with normal biological and hormonal values after 1 year of followup . 
transrectal ultrasonography in the evaluation of the infertile man : a report of 3 cases . the traditional evaluation of the infertile man with azoospermia or low ejaculate volume includes determination of serum testosterone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels , a seminal fructose test , post-ejaculate urinalysis and , sometimes , vasography . transrectal ultrasonography , a technique currently familiar to most urologists , recently has been added to our diagnostic armamentarium . this office-based imaging procedure provides an accurate assessment of the prostate , ejaculatory ducts and seminal vesicles , which can be helpful in the evaluation of certain infertile patients . we describe 3 patients who presented with either azoospermia or decreased ejaculate volume in whom transrectal ultrasonography had a critical role in the fertility evaluation . the clinical indications for and interpretation of transrectal ultrasonography in the infertile population are described . transrectal ultrasonography currently is the most accurate , inexpensive and readily available noninvasive imaging technique used to diagnose obstruction of the ejaculatory ducts in the infertile patient with either azoospermia or low ejaculate volume . 
gonadoblastoma in an anatomically normal man : a case report and literature review . gonadoblastoma , a rare gonadal neoplasm , presents most frequently in phenotypic female or phenotypically male patients with dysgenetic gonads or undescended testes . to date , only 2 cases of gonadoblastoma have been reported in anatomically normal male patients with scrotal testes . both of these patients presented with testicular masses and germ cell tumors . we report a case of a genotypically and phenotypically normal , fertile man with descended testes who on evaluation for chronic orchialgia had a gonadoblastoma unaccompanied by a germ cell neoplasm . the tumor was nonpalpable and was initially discovered on scrotal ultrasound . 
in situ hybridization of prostate-specific antigen mrna in human prostate . prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) mrna was detected by in situ hybridization utilizing a 428 base pair [ 35s ] - labelled cdna probe from the 3 ' noncoding region of the psa gene . thirty six fresh surgical specimens were collected from patients undergoing radical retropubic prostatectomy for carcinoma of the prostate . quantitative analysis of the levels of psa mrna in both the benign and malignant tissues was performed using an ibas 2000 image analysis system . the results of this study demonstrated that there is a significant decrease in the expression of psa mrna in the carcinoma tissue when compared to the benign epithelium . the average binding ( number of silver grains/1 x 10 ( 4 ) microns . 2 ) for 20 specimens of malignant epithelium was 475 + / - 161 and 586 + / - 140 for 16 specimens of benign epithelium ( p less than 0.05 ) . eleven patients had both benign and malignant tissue from the same surgical specimen available for study . from these paired specimens , the psa mrna expression was also significantly reduced in the malignant epithelium when compared to the benign epithelium , 445 + / - 162 and 588 + / - 135 respectively ( p less than 0.005 ) . the psa protein was detected using a monoclonal antibody to psa with an immunohistochemical staining technique . the psa protein expression paralleled the expression of the psa mrna in the majority of the tissue sections . many of the tumor specimens showed a heterogeneous expression of psa , whereas all of the benign epithelium had a uniform high level of psa expression . in conclusion , psa mrna and protein are located only within the glandular epithelial tissue , the expression of psa protein parallels that of the psa mrna , and both the psa protein and psa mrna are significantly decreased in the malignant epithelium when compared to benign prostatic epithelium . 
popliteal artery occlusion caused by cystic adventitial disease : successful treatment by urokinase followed by nonresectional cystotomy . preoperative diagnosis of an occluded popliteal artery caused by cystic adventitial disease allowed use of urokinase to successfully dissolve secondary thrombosis . subsequent non-resectional adventitial cystotomy and evacuation of cyst contents allowed lasting restoration of a patent arterial lumen and return of normal distal pulses . this nongrafting technique may serve as a model for future patients with occluded arteries caused by this condition . 
prospective study of estrogen replacement therapy and risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women [ published erratum appears in jama 1991 apr 10 ; 265 ( 14 ) :1828 ] we prospectively examined the use of estrogen replacement therapy in relation to breast cancer incidence in a cohort of women 30 to 55 years of age in 1976 . during 367 187 person-years of follow-up among postmenopausal women , 722 incident cases of breast cancer were documented . overall , past users of replacement estrogen were not at increased risk ( relative risk , 0.98 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.81 to 1.18 ) , including even those with more than 10 years since last [ corrected ] use ( relative risk after adjustment for established risk factors , 0.70 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.45 to 1.10 ) . however , the risk of breast cancer was significantly elevated among current users ( relative risk , 1.36 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.11 to 1.67 ) . among current users , a stronger relationship was observed with increasing age but not with increasing duration of use . these data suggest that long-term past use of estrogen replacement therapy is not related to risk of breast cancer but that current use may modestly increase risk . 
preoperative cell-mediated immune function and the prognosis of patients with gastric carcinoma . the cell-mediated immune function of 83 patients with gastric carcinoma was assessed preoperatively and the results were compared to that of 52 patients with benign lesions . the data were subjected to an analysis in order to evaluate their prognostic significance . the abilities to induce allogeneic cytotoxicity and to produce interleukin 2 ( il2 ) in patients with stage iv carcinoma were significantly depressed , as compared to those in patients with benign lesions , whereas natural killer ( nk ) cell activity was not significantly impaired . there was no significant correlation among these immune functions . when the patients were stratified into two groups , those who had high ( greater than the mean value in patients with benign lesions ) and low ( less than the same value ) values of these immune reactivities , the survival of patients with high nk activity ( greater than or equal to 43 % ) was significantly better , as compared to that of patients with low cytotoxicity ( less than 43 % ) . however , there was no correlation between the survival and allogeneic cytotoxicity in these patients . the high ability to produce il2 ( greater than or equal to 1.3 u/ml ) correlated with the better survival in the patients , but not in the group of patients who underwent curative resection . 
adenocarcinoma arising in barrett 's esophagus . a review of nine adenocarcinomas of the esophagus arising in barrett 's epithelium was undertaken . we found the disease among white males disproportionately . risk factors and incidence rate remain to be clarified . only one patient was in a surveillance program and only he had carcinoma discovered " early . " he still survives while only one of the eight whose diagnosis followed investigation of symptoms remains alive . 
small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract . four cases of anaplastic carcinoma of the pancreas or biliary tract were studied clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically . all four cases were intermediate cell type and contained a minimum amount of microscopic foci of differentiated glandular adenocarcinoma . argyrophilic tumor cells were not seen in any of the four tumors . immunohistochemically , no tumor was positive for hormonal products , but all tumors were positive for epithelial markers . these findings suggest that the anaplastic carcinoma are not derived from argyrophilic cells , but rather from adenocarcinomas which have the potential for anaplastic metaplasia . the long-term survival of one patient emphasized the importance of chemotherapy in the treatment of small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract . 
neoadjuvant cis-ddp in esophageal cancers : an experience at a regional cancer centre , india . we are analysing the results of 80 patients who underwent surgery during 1983-84 for esophageal cancer . forty patients who received pre-operative single agent cis-ddp were grouped under " a " and 40 patients who went for surgery directly were grouped under " b " . twenty-two patients ( 55 % ) of group a showed tumor necrosis . both groups underwent resection and hand-sewn anastamosis of the esophagus . there were 10 post-operative deaths among 80 resected cases , 9 of them being from anastomatic leak . cis-ddp has induced negligible side effects . a comparatively high survival rate during early years in patients who responded to cis-ddp suggests that neoadjuvant chemotherapy might be of value . 
obstructing carcinoma of the cecum . carcinoma of the cecum , the third most common location for malignancy of the large bowel , was examined with attention centered upon cecal cancers producing obstruction . reviewing 136 patients revealed 11 obstructing lesions ( 8.1 % ) presenting as distal small bowel obstructions . the mean age of the patients was 74 years . all but one patient had resection for cure which consisted of a right hemicolectomy with ileotransverse colostomy . there was no operative mortality or significant morbidity . bowel obstruction due to cecal carcinoma is an infrequent occurrence arising in elderly patients and carries a poor survival rate due to advanced disease at the time of diagnosis and treatment . 
complications of stapled anastomoses in anterior resection for rectal carcinoma : colorectal anastomosis versus coloanal anastomosis . postoperative results of 48 patients who underwent anterior resection using the eea-stapler were evaluated . in all but 2 cases the indication for surgery was colorectal carcinoma . in 24 patients an anastomosis was created above the 5 cm level ( above the anal verge : colorectal anastomosis ) and in 24 at the 0-5 cm level ( coloanal anastomosis ) . there was no perioperative mortality . the only complication observed in the colorectal anastomosis group was one case of late anastomotic stenosis . in the coloanal anastomosis group there were 4 cases with early anastomosis leaks , 3 cases with late stenosis and 5 cases with various degrees of late fecal incontinence , ultimately resulting in a permanent diverting stoma in 5 ( 10.4 % ) patients . we conclude that for rectal tumors the eea-stapled anterior resection provides excellent functional results in most cases . stapled coloanal anastomoses more often demonstrate various ( early and late ) complications . nevertheless in spite of chronic discomfort , many patients still prefer their complaints to a permanent stoma . 
carcinoma of the pancreas : a retrospective review . eighty-five patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were reviewed in order to evaluate the efficacy of our methods of diagnosis and treatment . the most useful diagnostic test was percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography ( ptc ) with a diagnostic rate of 96 % . pancreaticoduodenectomy ( whipple procedure ) and total pancreatic resection were performed in 13 and 2 patients , respectively . the remaining 50 patients underwent various palliative drainage procedures . twenty patients did not undergo operation for various reasons . the primary tumor was found in the head of the pancreas in 50 patients ( 59 % ) , the body in 6 patients ( 7 % ) , and in the tail in 8 patients ( 9 % ) . postoperative complications , including sepsis , bleeding , intra-abdominal abscesses , and anastomotic leaks , occurred in 37 % of the patients . there were one operative and 9 postoperative deaths . the average survival for those patients undergoing surgical intervention was 6 months . there were no 5-year survivors . 
in vivo selection and characterization of a murine mammary tumor subline with high potential for spontaneous lymph node metastasis . a transplantable mammary adenocarcinoma , grown in balb/c mice , with a marked enhancement in its draining lymph node metastatic ability ( mm3ln ) , was obtained through an in vivo procedure from a variant tumor moderately metastatic to lymph nodes ( mm3 ) . both mm3 and mm3ln presented a similar latency and tumor growth rate and reached the same tumor mean diameter at death . mm3ln tumor-bearing mice exhibited a larger mean survival time . the new variant showed a 2.5-fold higher incidence of tumor-draining lymph node metastases than mm3 line , with no differences in the incidence of lung metastases . morphology as well as cytogenetic and in vitro adhesion properties were studied in order to characterize the new subline . this murine tumor model has potential application in the study of the metastatic process in lymphoid tissue . 
ampullary carcinoma in patients under 50 years of age with a poor prognosis . clinicopathologic features of 145 japanese patients with ampullary carcinoma were compared among three age groups . the 145 patients were divided into three groups by the patient 's age at the time of operation ; there were 24 patients in group i ( younger ) aged less than or equal to 50 years , 99 in group ii ( ordinary ) aged 51-69 , and 22 in group iii ( elderly ) aged greater than or equal to 70 . the three groups showed no significant difference in sex , icterus , duration of icterus , size of the tumor , year of operation , macroscopic type , histopathologic type , tumor margin , lymphatic permeation , venous invasion , or pancreatic invasion . the survival curve of group i was worse than those of groups ii and iii . multivariate regression analysis using 11 prognostic variables failed to reveal that the age of the patient at the time of operation was an independent factor . the younger patients aged less than or equal to 50 fared worse than the elderly patients aged greater than or equal to 70 , because the group i tumors included a significantly greater number of advanced ampullary carcinoma with more frequent perineural invasion than did the group iii tumors . 
colon carcinoma associated with ureterosigmoidostomy . a patient developing a colonic adenoma 38 years following ureterosigmoidostomy is presented . the mechanisms of neoplastic transformation associated with ureterosigmoidostomy is now better understood . this knowledge is being applied to develop modifications both of the surgical technique and the management of patients with this form of urinary diversion , and is a subject of discussion . 
metastatic tumors of the umbilicus : a review 1830-1989 . umbilical metastases from known and unknown primary cancers are rare . the eponym " sister mary joseph 's nodule " has been used by generations of physicians . the first reports of this clinical sign were from walshe in 1846 . a review of the literature revealed 265 cases from then until 1989 . only 85 cases of umbilical metastasis from unknown primary tumors were found . this review should help us to focus on the common and uncommon primary sites in the diagnosis of patients with this finding . a single case report and the work-up for the hidden primary tumor are described . 
parathyroid hormone-related peptide in plasma of patients with hypercalcemia and malignant lesions we developed and validated a radioimmunoassay for circulating human parathyroid hormone-related peptide ( pthrp ) , based on a commercial antiserum to the synthetic 1-34 fragment of pthrp , 125i-tyr degrees-pthrp ( 1-34 ) as radioligand , and prior extraction of the native peptide from plasma with c-2 cartridges . we determined immunoreactive pthrp concentrations in plasma samples from 48 healthy persons ( mean + / - sd , 3.1 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ; range , less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter ) , 8 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism , 36 patients with hypercalcemia and a concurrent malignant lesion , and 9 normocalcemic patients with cancer and increased serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen or prostate-specific antigen . pthrp was normal in samples from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism ( 3.2 + / - 1.1 pmol/liter ) , secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 2.5 + / - 1.3 pmol/liter ) , and cancer without hypercalcemia ( 2.4 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ) . in contrast , plasma immunoreactive pthrp levels were increased ( 6.0 to 85.0 pmol/liter ) in 47 % of patients with hypercalcemia and cancer of various types , with or without bone metastatic lesions . large amounts of pthrp were also found in conditioned medium from cultured human prostatic carcinoma cells . thus , pthrp may be a causative factor for hypercalcemia associated with a malignant lesion in at least half of the cases . measurement of circulating pthrp may be of differential diagnostic help in hypercalcemic states . 
diagnosis of malignant cardiac disease by endomyocardial biopsy among oncology patients , endomyocardial biopsy has been used primarily for the evaluation of anthracycline cardiotoxicity . in addition , however , endomyocardial biopsy may be useful for the detection of malignant cardiac neoplasms . between 1982 and 1989 , metastatic involvement of the heart was diagnosed by endomyocardial biopsy in seven patients at our institution . all except one of these patients were older than 50 years of age and had dyspnea as an initial symptom , and all had a known malignant lesion . results of endomyocardial biopsy confirmed cardiac involvement by a hematologic malignant lesion in four patients and metastatic melanoma in two patients . in one patient , who had a history of breast cancer and lymphoma , a metastatic neoplasm of uncertain differentiation was observed . myocyte damage was evident in endomyocardial biopsy specimens from two of the four patients with hematologic malignant disease . endomyocardial biopsy was performed to confirm the possibility of metastatic involvement in five patients ; in the other two , endomyocardial biopsy was performed to determine whether anthracycline cardiotoxicity was present , and metastatic involvement was unanticipated . 
paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration : a clinical comparison of patients with and without purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies . in a review of 32 patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration ( pcd ) , 16 ( all of whom were women ) had purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies ( pcab ) and 16 ( 8 women ) did not . most patients ( 15 of 16 seropositive and 12 of 16 seronegative patients ) had active cancer at the time of neurologic diagnosis . gynecologic or breast cancers were found in 14 of 16 seropositive and in 2 of 8 seronegative female patients ; lung cancer was diagnosed in 7 of 16 seronegative patients but in no seropositive patient . in seropositive patients , the onset of the syndrome was more often abrupt and abnormalities of affect , mentation , ocular motility , and cerebrospinal fluid igg index were more common than in seronegative patients . additional paraneoplastic neurologic syndromes were present in five seronegative patients but in no seropositive patient . clinical impairment was equivalent in both groups ; approximately 75 % of patients were confined to a wheelchair or bed at last follow-up . four of 16 seropositive patients died ( 4 to 18 months after onset of pcd ) , and 7 of 16 seronegative patients died ( 7 to 120 months after onset of pcd ) . thus , pcab seem to be a marker for a clinical subset of female patients with gynecologic or breast cancer . the high frequency of other autoimmune paraneoplastic syndromes in patients with seronegative pcd suggests that pcd in both seropositive and seronegative patients may have a common pathogenic basis that involves an as yet unidentified antineuronal autoimmune mechanism . 
renal cell carcinoma associated with sarcoidlike tissue reaction . a 60-year-old man was referred to our institution with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis . because of several months ' complaint of right flank pain and weight loss , the patient had consulted his local physician . after an extensive workup revealed only cholelithiasis , he underwent a cholecystectomy for presumed chronic cholecystitis . at the time of operation , biopsy of several liver nodules and peripancreatic nodes revealed noncaseating granulomas , consistent with sarcoidosis . on initial examination at our institution , the patient had microhematuria . a chest roentgenogram demonstrated multiple pulmonary nodules , an abdominal computed tomographic scan showed an indeterminate left renal mass , and magnetic resonance imaging of the spine revealed abnormal signals in the body of t-12 . open-lung biopsy showed an adenocarcinoma with clear cell features , likely of renal origin . the patient was diagnosed as having a metastatic renal carcinoma associated with a sarcoidlike tissue reaction . although noncaseating granulomas have been reported in association with other malignant lesions , to our knowledge this is the first report of such an association with renal carcinoma . in addition , this case illustrates several points . first , sarcoidosis is a multisystem disorder with protean extrapulmonary manifestations . in fact , all our patient 's findings could have been attributed to sarcoidosis . second , noncaseating granulomas occur with many types of processes , including infections , chemical exposures , and , as in this case , neoplasms . thus , noncaseating granulomas are not pathognomonic for sarcoidosis . third , sarcoidosis is a clinical diagnosis that can not be based on histologic findings alone . 
malignant transformation of adenomatous hyperplasia to hepatocellular carcinoma . to clarify the course of adenomatous hyperplasia ( ah ) of the liver , 17 patients with 20 biopsy-proven ah nodules were followed clinically for 1-5 years . at the initial biopsy the mean nodular diameter was 10 ( sd 4 ) mm and the relative cellularity [ ( mean cellularity of ah divided by mean parenchymal cellularity ] x 100 ) 141 ( 27 ) . the criteria for diagnosis of malignant transformation of ah were both a doubling of nodular volume and changes on imaging . between 6 and 50 months after biopsy , 9 of the 18 nodules which could still be accurately identified met the criteria for transformation ; histological proof of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) was obtained later for 7 of these 9 nodules . the product of diameter and cellularity ( transformation index ) was the strongest predictor of the time to transformation . 9 ah nodules did not undergo transformation -- 7 did not meet one or both criteria and 2 became undetectable by imaging . because of the high risk of malignant transformation , it can be concluded that ah is an absolute precursor of hcc . it should therefore be treated as a potential malignant disorder . 
efficacy and morbidity of partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy . in recent years , we have seen increasing use of partial laryngectomies for larger lesions that were previously treated by total laryngectomy . the resultant closer margins have made postoperative radiation therapy an important adjuvant treatment to conservation laryngeal surgery . we review the university of california , los angeles , experience with combination partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy between 1973 and 1987 for treatment of carcinoma of the larynx . twenty-four such patients who underwent partial laryngectomies and postoperative radiation therapy are examined . techniques of treatment , complications , and the functional ability of the remaining larynx are discussed . the locoregional control rate at 5 years was 80 % . risk factors associated with an increased risk of recurrence were positive margins , vascular invasion , and extranodal spread . there were no major problems with postoperative wound healing or airway management during the radiation treatment . vocal and swallowing function were well preserved in most cases . we conclude that combination partial laryngectomy and radiation therapy permits preservation of laryngeal function without serious complications , and therefore is an effective treatment for selected patients with carcinoma of the larynx . 
1990 ogura memorial lecture : moral dilemmas in head and neck cancer . neither morality nor dilemma can be defined meaningfully in the concept of the practical management of head and neck cancer . although both have important implications , particularly with regard to ethnic and social factors , they play a relatively minor role in determining management policy . with little knowledge of the intrinsic causes of cancer and with a treatment strategy limited to radiotherapy and surgery , our desire for cure must be tempered by concern to avoid any increase in patient privations . my philosophy , based upon the care of more than 3500 patients over almost 30 years , reflects some of the difficulties of applying the concept " do nothing that may cause harm , " while offering each patient the opportunity for long-term cure . 
the efficacy of comprehensive neck dissection with or without postoperative radiotherapy in nodal metastases of squamous cell carcinoma of the upper respiratory and digestive tracts . neck recurrence-free curves corrected for local recurrence were compared for 494 patients who underwent 565 comprehensive neck dissections . in 42 dissections , no radicality could be obtained . of the 523 histologically radical dissections , examination revealed tumor in 352 cases . patients in whom three or more positive nodes or extranodal spread in one or more nodes were found received postoperative radiotherapy . in the histologically n0 group , the incidence of neck recurrence after 5 years was 3 % ; in the n + group as a whole , it was 10 % . analysis of the influence of extranodal spread and the number of positive nodes showed that the group with one or two positive nodes without extranodal spread ( that did not receive postoperative radiotherapy ) did not statistically differ from the other groups . this suggests that the results of the group with one or two positive nodes without extranodal spread can be improved by postoperative radiotherapy . 
flexible nd : yag laser palliation of obstructive tracheal metastatic malignancies . flexible nd : yag endoscopic laser surgery may become an effective new modality for palliation in patients with obstructive endotracheal metastatic malignancies . we report the results of the treatment of two patients with severely obstructing intraluminal tracheal metastatic melanoma and medullary thyroid carcinoma , using the neodymium-yag laser via the flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope . both patients complained of significant dyspnea , orthopnea , cough , and hemoptysis and were not candidates for rigid bronchoscopy because of underlying medical contraindications and anatomical problems . multiple treatment sessions were used with treatment intervals of 1 to 2 weeks . all treatments were performed in the operating room under sedation , without intubation , with topical lidocaine and standard superior laryngeal nerve block . successful relief of airway obstruction with complete regression of the endotracheal masses was achieved and no recurrences were seen after 9 months ' follow-up . flexible nd : yag laser bronchoscopy offered an alternative for the relief of obstructing endotracheal or bronchial malignancies in patients in whom the rigid bronchoscope could not be passed . it seemed to prolong survival in selected cases , and provided definite improvement in quality of life . 
carcinoma of the external auditory canal : an update . this review is a continuation of the series of 35 cases of carcinoma of the external auditory canal originally reported by the senior author and colleagues . eighteen additional cases have been evaluated and treated since 1976 . preoperative high-resolution computed tomographic scanning has replaced polytomography , and improved surgical skull base approaches have allowed for extended resections of advanced lesions . a revised classification for local and extensive lesions is presented . the prognosis for localized tumors treated by en bloc resection remains excellent , whereas prognosis for extensive lesions might be more dependent on histologic type and grade of tumor . 
variations on the temporoparietal fascial flap . an improved understanding of the vascular supply of the layers of the temporal fossa has increased the potential of this region for new and ingenious reconstructive techniques . separate and independently vascularized layers of this region include hair-bearing scalp , glabrous skin , tempororoparietal fascia ( and galea aponeurotica ) , temporalis muscle and fascia , and pericranium . island flaps of glabrous skin and scalp provided esthetically appropriate tissue to cover a variety of defects . the malleable bulk of the subcutaneous fascial layers were combined with skin grafts to restore thin lining , and used as a vascularized bed for cartilage grafts in otherwise unsatisfactory recipient sites . illustrative cases from our 5-year clinical experience are presented to demonstrate various combinations of the temporoparietal fascial pedicle with tissues from the temporal region to reconstruct the eyebrows , eyelids , orbits , cheeks , and lips . 
primary central nervous system lymphoma in patients with and without the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . a retrospective analysis and review of the literature . twenty-two cases of pcl were reviewed , in which 9 patients had aids and 13 did not . a review of the literature identified 247 cases of aids-related pcl . differences between patients with aids and immunocompetent pcl were noted in our series . aids-related pcl when compared to non-aids pcl in our series has the following notable clinical features : 1 ) significantly younger age at presentation , median age 34 versus 59 years ; 2 ) significantly higher incidence of b symptoms , 44 % versus 8 % ; 3 ) worse median performance status at presentation , 3 versus 1 ; and , 4 ) shorter median survival , 3 versus 10 months . differences in performance status and survival , however , were not significant . aids-related pcl is further characterized by frequent ( 44 % ) ring-enhancing mass lesions on head ct scan , a finding that makes it clinically difficult to distinguish from toxoplasmosis . median survival appears to be improved in the absence of opportunistic infection at time of diagnosis of pcl , 6 versus 2 months . the therapeutic approach to patients with pcl , with and without aids , is variable . combined modality therapy may improve the survival in patients with non-aids pcl . therapy for patients with aids-related pcl is tailored to the status of the individual and it is , therefore , difficult to make comparisons to non-aids pcl patients . aids patients are often too ill to tolerate aggressive surgery or systemic treatment and in this instance , radiotherapy alone may be an acceptable alternative . nonetheless , overall survival for patients with aids-related and non-aids pcl remains poor . 
altered expression of the retinoblastoma gene product in human sarcomas . background . the retinoblastoma-susceptibility ( rb ) gene is a prototype tumor-suppressor gene originally isolated from patients with heritable retinoblastoma . this gene encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein whose expression is altered in several types of human tumors . methods . we studied the expression of the rb protein in 44 primary and 12 metastatic high-grade human sarcomas by means of immunohistochemical methods and western blotting . computerized image analysis was used to quantify the level of rb gene product in individual tumor cells . the expression of the rb gene was then correlated with clinical outcome in the patients with primary tumors . results . of the 44 patients with primary sarcomas , 13 ( 30 percent ) had tumors with normal , homogeneous expression of the rb protein in essentially all tumor cells . thirty-one patients with primary tumors ( 70 percent ) had altered rb expression ; in 18 ( 40 percent ) the rb protein was heterogeneously expressed , and in 13 ( 30 percent ) it was detected in fewer than 20 percent of the tumor cells . all 12 of the patients with metastatic sarcomas had altered expression of the rb protein . when the findings in the patients with primary tumors were correlated with clinical outcome , survival was found to be significantly increased in the patients whose tumors had homogeneous rb expression , as compared with those with either heterogeneous expression ( p = 0.026 ) or no expression ( p = 0.012 ) . conclusions . tumors in which the expression of rb gene product was decreased were more aggressive than tumors in which this protein was expressed by nearly all cells . the rb gene product may be an important prognostic variable in patients with these tumors . 
relation of meat , fat , and fiber intake to the risk of colon cancer in a prospective study among women . background . the rates of colon cancer in various countries are strongly correlated with the per capita consumption of red meat and animal fat and , to a lesser degree , inversely associated with the consumption of fiber . methods . we conducted a prospective study among 88,751 women 34 to 59 years old and without a history of cancer , inflammatory bowel disease , or familial polyposis who completed a dietary questionnaire in 1980 . by 1986 , during 512,488 person-years of follow-up , 150 incident cases of colon cancer had been documented . results . after adjustment for total energy intake , animal fat was positively associated with the risk of colon cancer ( p for trend = 0.01 ) ; the relative risk for the highest as compared with the lowest quintile was 1.89 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.13 to 3.15 ) . no association was found for vegetable fat . the relative risk of colon cancer in women who ate beef , pork , or lamb as a main dish every day was 2.49 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.24 to 5.03 ) , as compared with those reporting consumption less than once a month . processed meats and liver were also significantly associated with increased risk , whereas fish and chicken without skin were related to decreased risk . the ratio of the intake of red meat to the intake of chicken and fish was particularly strongly associated with an increased incidence of colon cancer ( p for trend = 0.0005 ) ; the relative risk for women in the highest quintile of this ratio as compared with those in the lowest quintile was 2.49 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.50 to 4.13 ) . a low intake of fiber from fruits appeared to contribute to the risk of colon cancer , but this relation was not statistically independent of meat intake . conclusions . these prospective data provide evidence for the hypothesis that a high intake of animal fat increases the risk of colon cancer , and they support existing recommendations to substitute fish and chicken for meats high in fat . 
overall mortality and cancer mortality around french nuclear sites higher than expected mortality from leukaemia has been observed in the population under age 25 living around sellafield and dounreay , nuclear reprocessing plants in the united kingdom . we report the results of a similar study for the population residing around nuclear sites in france . the number of leukaemia deaths was 58 , comparable to the 62 in control areas , and slightly less than the 67 expected from national mortality statistics . twelve deaths due to hodgkin 's disease were observed around nuclear sites ; this is about twice the number of hodgkin 's deaths observed in control areas and twice the number expected from national mortality statistics . this observation must , however , be interpreted in light of the fact that several causes of deaths were studied , increasing the play of chance . 
a downstream initiation element required for efficient tata box binding and in vitro function of tfiid . the gfa gene encodes glial fibrillary acidic protein , an intermediate filament protein expressed in glial cells . in vitro transcription analysis has shown that the human gfa promoter contains two initiation elements that can independently specify the transcription startpoint . one of the elements is a tata box 25 base pairs ( bp ) upstream from the transcription startpoint ; the other is located between 10 and 50 bp downstream from the transcription initiation site . we have now shown by transfection that both elements are required for efficient transcription in cultured cells . a partially purified natural human tata box-binding factor ( tfiid ) from hela cells gave footprints that extended from upstream of the tata box through the downstream initiator . deletion of the downstream initiator inhibited both tfiid binding to the tata box and transcription in vitro . in contrast to natural human tfiid , clone human and yeast tfiids expressed in bacteria gave footprints covering only the tata box region , although hypersensitive sites were observed in the downstream region . the cloned tfiids also showed less dependence than natural human tfiid on the downstream initiator for both tata box binding and in vitro transcription . these results suggest that natural human tfiid contains an additional component ( s ) that contribute ( s ) to stable tfiid binding and effective transcription by interacting with the downstream initiator . 
circulating cd8 + cytotoxic t lymphocytes specific for htlv-i px in patients with htlv-i associated neurological disease . the human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) , the first human retrovirus to be characterized , is associated with adult t-cell leukaemia and a chronic progressive disease of the central nervous system termed tropical spastic paraparesis , or htlv-i-associated myelopathy . only 1 % of individuals infected with htlv-i develop clinical disease however . the various manifestations of an htlv-i infection may be related to differences in the genetic backgrounds of individuals , infection with variant strains of htlv-i , differences in viral tropism or host immune response to the virus . whereas the humoral response to htlv-i is well characterized , little is known about the human cellular immune response , such as the production of cytotoxic t lymphocytes . here we report the presence of high levels of circulating htlv-i-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes in patients with htlv-i associated neurological disease but not in htlv-i seropositive individuals without neurological involvement . these cytotoxic t lymphocytes are cd8 + , hla class i - restricted and predominantly recognize the htlv-i gene products encoded in the regulatory region px . these findings suggest that htlv-i-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes may contribute to the pathogenesis of associated neurological disorders associated with htlv-i . 
inhibition of tumor growth in a glioma model treated with boron neutron capture therapy . this investigation attempts to determine whether increased survival time seen when the f98 glioma model is treated with boron neutron capture therapy ( bnct ) is a result of inhibition of tumor growth caused by radiation-induced alterations in endothelial cells and normal tissue components . this indirect effect of radiation has been called the tumor bed effect . a series of tumor-bearing rats was studied , using a standardized investigational bnct protocol consisting of 50 mg/kg of na2b12h11sh injected intravenously 14 to 17 hours before neutron irradiation at 4 x 10 ( 12 ) n/cm2 . ten rats , serving as controls , received no treatment either before or after tumor implantation . a second group of 10 rats was treated with bnct 4 days before tumor implantation ; these animals received no further treatment . the remaining group of 10 rats received no pretreatment but was treated with bnct 10 days after implantation . histological and ultrastructural analyses were performed in 2 animals from each group 17 days after implantation . survival times of the untreated control animals ( mean , 25.8 days ) did not differ statistically from the survival times of the rats in the pretreated group ( mean , 25.5 days ) . the rats treated with bnct after implantation survived significantly longer ( p less than 0.02 ; mean , 33.2 days ) than the controls and the preirradiated animals . tumor size indices calculated from measurements taken at the time of death were similar in all groups . these results indicate that , with this tumor model , bnct does not cause a tumor bed effect in cerebral tissue . the therapeutic gains observed with bnct result from direct effects on tumor cells or on the peritumoral neovascularity . 
characterization of a newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain : iomm-lee . a permanent malignant meningioma ( mm ) cell line of the human brain designated " iomm-lee " is reported . this cell line was successfully established from the tumor of a 61-year-old chinese man with repeated recurrent primary intraosseous malignant meningioma of the skull . it has been subcultured for more than 60 passages during the past 30 months . the doubling time of cultured cells is approximately 62 hours . tumorigenicity in athymic nude mice ( balb/c-nu/nu ) who develop multiple pulmonary metastases was observed ; the doubling time of tumor volume in vivo is approximately 5 days . karyotypic analysis revealed this cell line to be of human origin and near-diploid , with a modal chromosome number of 49 . the mesenchymal tumor marker vimentin and intracytoplasmic microfilaments were identified in the cytoplasm of tumor cells by indirect immunohistochemical peroxidase-anti-peroxidase assays and immunogold ultrastructural localization by transmission electron microscopy , respectively . scanning electron microscopy of cultured cells and xenografted tumors revealed ellipsoidal or carrot-shaped tumor cells presenting a wrinkled surface with short sparse microvilli . potential proliferating activity was determined by ki-67 monoclonal antibody ; the ki-67 labeling index of cultured cells and xenografted tumors was approximately 36 % and 30 % , respectively . this newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain may prove useful as a research model . 
functional results of facial nerve suture after removal of acoustic neurinoma : analysis of 25 cases . the facial nerve is sometimes severed during the removal of acoustic neurinomas , either intentionally to ensure complete removal , or unintentionally because of difficulties in identification . in such cases we have , if possible , sutured the nerve stumps microsurgically , either end to end or by use of an intervening nerve graft . we analyzed the outcome of 25 instances of facial nerve suturing in a series of 219 patients operated on for acoustic neurinoma from 1979 to 1987 . the first signs of recovery appeared at an average of 12 months , and there was continued improvement for several years . recovery was graded from 1 to 6 . the anastomosis was successful in 24 of the 25 sutured nerves , in that at least some facial movement and tone were restored ( grade 5 or higher ) . in 11 of the 25 cases , facial appearance at rest and with movement was moderately good ( grade 2 or 3 ) . a grade 1 result , with no perceivable facial dysfunction , was never achieved . typically , oral muscles showed the most improvement and frontal muscles the least . facial appearance was better at rest than with movement , which was always complicated by some degree of synkinesis . closure of the eye was so good in 13 of the 25 cases that neither tarsorrhaphy nor an eyelid spring was necessary . when the facial nerve is severed , intraoperative suture is recommended , because it provides a chance for moderately good restoration of facial appearance . 
extracranial repair of cerebrospinal fluid fistulas : technique and results in 37 patients . although neurosurgeons have traditionally preferred intracranial repair for the management of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) fistulas , this approach is associated with the complications of a craniotomy , anosmia , and a high incidence of recurrent fistulas . extracranial repair , on the other hand , produces no central nervous system morbidity , preserves olfaction , and is associated with a low incidence of recurrence . although there have been several reports of extracranial repair of csf fistulas by otorhinolaryngologists , this approach has received scant mention in the neurosurgical literature . we report here our experience with 37 patients with csf rhinorrhea or otorrhea who underwent extracranial repair . the etiology of the fistula was postoperative in 22 , traumatic in 6 , and spontaneous in 9 . the fistulas were repaired using one of four techniques : external ethmoid-sphenoid in 18 patients , transmastoid in 9 , transseptosphenoid in 7 , and osteoplastic frontal sinusotomy in 3 . in 32 of the 37 patients ( 86 % ) the fistulas were successfully repaired with the initial procedure . of the 5 patients requiring a second operation , the fistula was successfully closed in 4 for an overall success rate of 97 % . complications were few and consisted of a transient facial paresis in a patient undergoing transmastoid repair and one death from meningitis . the authors conclude that because of low morbidity and mortality and a high success rate in closing fistulas , extracranial repair is the preferred technique for the operative management of csf rhinorrhea and otorrhea . 
symptomatic pineal cyst : case report . pineal cysts are being described with increasing frequency since the advent of magnetic resonance imaging . although pineal cysts are incidental findings in as many as 4 % of magnetic resonance imaging studies , symptomatic pineal cysts are quite rare . we present a case of pineal cyst causing aqueductal obstruction with symptomatic hydrocephalus and resultant headache and syncope , which was treated by surgical resection . a review of the relevant literature and discussion follow . 
clinical study of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors producing alpha-fetoprotein . we present six patients with intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumors that produced alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) . their ages ranged from 8 to 20 years ( average , 11.5 years old ) ; two were male and four were female . four of the tumors originated in the pineal region and two in the suprachiasmatic region . one patient treated with only radiation therapy died within 3 months of admission as a result of intraperitoneal metastasis via a ventriculoperitoneal shunt . another patient , treated with radiation therapy and intrathecal administration of neocarzinostatin , died after 12 months because of tumor progression and subarachnoid dissemination . two patients who received radiation and combination therapy with cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin died after 13 and 25 months . the remaining two patients treated with radiation therapy and adjuvant chemotherapy ( cisplatin and etoposide ) are now alive without recurrence after 16 and 19 months from admission . adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide appears to be efficacious in the treatment of intracranial nongerminomatous germ cell tumor . 
vagal schwannoma associated with syncopal attacks and postural hypotension : a case report . a case of vagal schwannoma in the cerebellomedullary angle is reported . preoperatively , the patient had paroxysmal episodes of postural hypotension with syncope . after total removal of the vagal tumor , her systemic blood pressure returned to normal . 
multiple intracranial tumors of different cell types . multiple intracranial tumors of different cell types are rare . we report nine patients with multiple intracranial tumors , who did not have a history of trauma , irradiation , or phacomatosis . the clinical , radiological , and histopathological findings as well as indications for operations in patients with asymptomatic second tumors are discussed . 
occult vascular malformations of the optic chiasm : magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis and surgical laser resection . angiographically occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm are extremely rare . before the advent of magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , it was difficult to diagnose these lesions preoperatively . we report mri scan findings of optic chiasm cavernous angiomas in two patients with chiasmal syndrome . mri was useful in localizing the vascular malformation and delineating its characteristics , especially chronic hemorrhage . one patient underwent biopsy of the lesion . the other patient underwent complete microsurgical resection of the malformation with the carbon dioxide laser with preservation of vision . occult vascular malformations of the optic nerve and chiasm may be a more common cause of visual deterioration than previously recognized . the mri scan is the imaging modality of choice for diagnosing and following these lesions . in certain patients , these vascular malformations may be amenable to complete surgical removal with stabilization or improvement of visual function . 
a case of dyschondroplasia associated with brain stem glioma : diagnosis by stereotactic biopsy . we present a 24-year-old patient with multiple chondromas of both hands , the pelvis , the left leg , and an associated brain stem glioma . there was no evidence of hemangioma or dyschromia , and the condition was diagnosed as ollier 's disease , a special type of dyschondroplasia like maffucci 's syndrome and kast 's disease . an increased overall risk for development of malignant skeletal and nonskeletal tumors is associated with maffucci 's syndrome . the risk of malignant degeneration is lower in ollier 's disease . a glioma in the pons and the right lobe of the cerebellum was found in this patient . the literature describes an association with gliomas in only 12 cases of dyschondroplasia and an infratentorial localization in just one case . signs of malignancy were histologically confirmed in 7 cases without significant preponderance of any one type . our patient had a low-grade brain stem astrocytoma with fibrillar and gemistocytic components . a stereotactic serial biopsy made it possible to rule out malignant degeneration . stereotactic brain tumor biopsy as a routine neurosurgical procedure is particularly valuable for deep space-occupying processes and forms the basis for therapy . in the present case , irradiation was not recommended . 
an unusual complication of silastic dural substitute : case report . a case is presented in which a patient developed an unusual complication after the use of silastic dural substitute . in 1983 , the patient underwent removal of a meningioma with the involved dura . five years later , he developed around the graft material a very thick connective tissue capsule , which simulated a recurrent meningioma clinically and radiologically . 
brain stem and spinal metastases of supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme : a clinical series . although the spread of supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme to the brain stem and spine has been extensively described in published autopsy series , information on the diagnosis , treatment , and subsequent clinical course of patients manifesting symptoms of glioblastomatous dissemination ante mortem remains scant . we report a series of 11 patients having the signs and symptoms of neuraxis dissemination of supratentorial glioblastoma multiforme . all patients had radiographic documentation of metastases by either contrast-enhanced myelograms or enhanced magnetic resonance imaging scans . ten presented with spinal involvement , whereas one presented with lower cranial neuropathies secondary to diffuse involvement of the basal cisterns . the mean age of the patients was 38.5 years , and the mean time interval between diagnosis of intracranial disease and diagnosis of metastases was 14.1 months . after diagnosis of tumor spread , subsequent mean survival time was 2.8 months . all patients received additional radiotherapy to the areas of metastasis , but the clinical response to radiotherapy was quite poor . this study confirms previous reports in the literature suggesting that metastases occur in younger patients and in patients with extended survival . the findings suggest that the relatively infrequent clinical incidence of the symptomatic spread of glioblastoma multiforme , as compared with the frequent incidental discovery of such spread at autopsy , may be the result of the limited survival of the affected patients , and not due to the biology of the tumor . 
ultrastructural evidence for differentiation in a human glioblastoma cell line treated with inhibitors of eicosanoid metabolism . human glioblastoma cells incubated in the presence of inhibitors of eicosanoid biosynthesis show decreased cellular proliferation without cytotoxicity . we studied the ultrastructural morphology of a human glioblastoma cell line cultured with nordihydroguaiaretic acid ( ndga ) , a lipoxygenase inhibitor , or 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid , a cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase inhibitor . when glioblastoma cells were treated for 3 days with antiproliferative concentrations of either agent , they shared many morphological characteristics , including evidence for increased astrocytic differentiation with only limited signs of toxicity . the inhibited glioma cells demonstrated an increase in the number and length of astrocytic processes containing greater numbers of glial filaments , and the ndga-treated cells also demonstrated extensive lateral pseudopod formation along the processes . the glioblastoma cell shape also became more elongated , losing the usual nuclear lobularity and nuclear inclusions , especially in ndga-treated cells . many cytoplasmic organelles packed the cytosol of the inhibited glioma cells , including prominent golgi apparatus , dilated smooth endoplasmic reticulum evolving into dilated vesicles , cytoplasmic vacuoles , and numerous concentric laminations . there was limited evidence for toxicity , however , as the mitochondria were more pleomorphic with some mitochondrial distention and disruption of the cristae along with an increase in cytoplasmic vacuolization . we conclude that the inhibitors of eicosanoid biosynthesis , ndga and 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid , not only suppress glioblastoma cell proliferation , but also induce increased astrocytic differentiation . 
epidermoid tumors of the 4th ventricle : report of seven cases . epidermoid tumors occur very rarely in the 4th ventricle . we discuss the history , clinical course , and the surgical results for seven patients . one patient had a remittal of symptoms , probably due to the emergence of the tumor from the 4th ventricle into the cisterna magna . total removal of the capsule was possible only in the youngest patient . at present , four patients ( mean follow-up , 6 years ) enjoy good general and neurological health . 
changes in intracochlear and intracanalicular nerves after acoustic neurinoma excision confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging . postoperative magnetic resonance imaging findings related to the vestibulocochlear and facial nerves within the internal auditory canal were analyzed in acoustic neurinomas . t1 - and proton-weighted magnetic resonance images showed that the vestibulocochlear nerves distal to the internal auditory meatus increased in signal intensity after surgical intervention . these nerves were conspicuously enhanced after intravenous administration of gadolinium diethylene-triamine-pentaacetic acid . the preserved facial nerves were also markedly enhanced postoperatively . as a possible cause of these findings , we suggest operative disruption of the blood-nerve barrier with ensuing nerve edema , although the operative procedures were carefully carried out using a surgical microscope . the clinical significance of traumatic disruption of the blood-nerve barrier and subsequent nerve edema are discussed from the standpoint of preservation of cochlear nerve function . 
clinicopathological experience with pineocytomas : report of five surgically treated cases . the clinicopathological experience associated with five cases of pineocytoma is presented . all patients were treated by surgical removal without postoperative radiotherapy . in three individuals , 2000 cgy was administered to the tumor as a presurgical diagnostic test , with no evidence of response . all cases demonstrated histological features of pineocytoma , according to the criteria of borit et al. , and of the so-called " pineocytoma with neuronal differentiation , " according to the criteria of rubinstein . the experience obtained from the present series reveals that these tumors can occur in the initial decades of life , that a cystic appearance and the presence of calcifications are distinctive features of their radiological evaluation , and that they have a good prognosis after surgical removal , even when the histological data indicate local invasion . the convenience of reserving the term " pineocytoma " for these tumors , and of including the so-called " pineocytomas without further differentiation " within the group of pineoblastomas , is suggested in order to achieve a practical clinicopathological assessment of parenchymatous pineal tumors . 
subdural hematoma associated with metastatic neoplasms . two cases of subdural hematoma , one acute and the other chronic , associated with cancer metastatic to the dura are reported . various mechanisms of the association of hematomas with cancer are reviewed . 
maffucci 's syndrome with bilateral cartilaginous tumors of the cerebellopontine angle . maffucci 's syndrome is characterized by the combination of multiple enchondromas ( ollier 's disease ) and hemangiomatosis . these hemangiomas develop in the subcutaneous tissue and form red-blue tumors dispersed over the whole body . intracranial involvement is rare , making a preoperative radiological diagnosis and differentiation from other tumors rather difficult . the radiological characteristics and successful removal of the intracranial part of a chondrosarcoma of the cerebellopontine angle in a case of maffucci 's syndrome are reported in this paper . 
concurrent intradural and extradural meningiomas of the cervical spine . a case of an extradural spinal meningioma presenting with a separate intradural meningioma at the same cord level is reported . review of the english literature on spinal epidural meningiomas reveals a high incidence of concurrent intradural tumors in patients with epidural meningiomas . this leads to the conclusion that the intradural space should be evaluated carefully when an epidural meningioma is encountered . 
intradural spinal cord tumor presenting as a subarachnoid hemorrhage : magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis . negative findings on four-vessel angiography after a subarachnoid hemorrhage are seen in 5 to 30 % of patients . a previously silent lesion in the spinal canal may be responsible for the ictus in a small percentage of this group . the etiological factors include tumors and arteriovenous malformations ; however , investigations of such lesions have been limited to patients with signs and symptoms of spinal cord or nerve root pathological processes . this report describes the management of a 56-year-old woman with clinical findings typical of an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on cerebral angiography , in whom magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement revealed an intradural extramedullary cervical schwannoma . for this reason , cervicothoracic magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement should be considered as an adjunctive scanning examination in all patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on angiography . 
radiation necrosis of the optic chiasm , optic tract , hypothalamus , and upper pons after radiotherapy for pituitary adenoma , detected by gadolinium-enhanced , t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging : case report . a 26-year-old woman was treated for a prolactin secreting pituitary adenoma by surgery and radiotherapy ( 5860 rads ) . fourteen months later , she developed right hemiparesis and dysarthria . a t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan using gadolinium contrast showed a small , enhanced lesion in the upper pons . seven months later , she had a sudden onset of loss of vision , and radiation optic neuropathy was diagnosed . a t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan showed widespread gadolinium-enhanced lesions in the optic chiasm , optic tract , and hypothalamus . magnetic resonance imaging is indispensable for the early diagnosis of radiation necrosis , which is not visualized by radiography or computed tomography . 
pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke 's cleft cyst this report describes a case of symptomatic pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke 's cleft cyst in a 25-year-old woman . the literature on pituitary hemorrhage in nonadenomatous sellar tumors is reviewed . 
suprasellar pituitary adenoma arising from the pars tuberalis : case report . a rare case of suprasellar pituitary adenoma arising from the pars tuberalis in a 53-year-old woman is presented . the tumor was located exclusively above the diaphragma sellae , and no invasion into the sella turcica was noted . 
central neurogenic hyperventilation : pharmacologic intervention with morphine sulfate and correlative analysis of respiratory , sleep , and ocular motor dysfunction . central neurogenic hyperventilation ( cnh ) , for which there is no effective therapy , can eventually result in respiratory fatigue and death . this report describes a patient with cnh due to a brainstem anaplastic astrocytoma who also exhibited disturbances of sleep and ocular motor function . the cnh responded clinically to morphine sulfate and methadone . analysis of ventilatory response to co2 before and after morphine demonstrated a depression of ventilatory response ( 49 to 53 % of baseline ) and occlusion pressure response ( 35 to 50 % of baseline ) to co2 , with a requirement for high doses of naloxone ( 10 mg iv ) to reverse the effect . polysomnography revealed sustained hyperventilation , elevated o2 saturation , and low end-tidal co2 throughout all stages of non-rapid eye movement ( nrem ) sleep , and absence of rapid eye movement ( rem ) sleep . ocular motor evaluation disclosed absence of horizontal and reflexive saccades with compensatory head thrusts . correlation of the clinical and physiologic data with the mri abnormalities suggested that the lesion responsible for cnh in this patient might reside in the medial tegmental parapontine reticular formation . since recurrent episodes of hyperventilation responded in a sustained fashion to iv and oral opiates , this treatment may warrant consideration in other patients with cnh . 
procarbazine chemotherapy in the treatment of recurrent malignant astrocytomas after radiation and nitrosourea failure . the brain tumor study group has shown procarbazine ( pcb ) to be as effective an adjuvant treatment as 1,3-bis ( 2-chloroethyl ) -1 - nitrosourea ( bcnu ) . we treated 35 patients with recurrent malignant astrocytomas after radiation and nitrosourea failure with successive courses of pcb 150 mg/m2/d for 28 days every 8 weeks . after 2 courses , 2 patients had complete responses , 7 had partial responses , 11 had stable disease , and 15 had progression . significantly more patients receiving pcb had complete or partial responses or stable disease than a similar group of patients in a previous trial who received intra-arterial ( ia ) cisplatin ( ddp ) . there is a significant advantage in time to disease progression for those receiving pcb compared with those receiving ia diaziquone ( azq ) . our results suggest that pcb is a more effective 2nd agent than ia ddp or azq following radiation and nitrosourea failure . 
antibodies to synthetic peptide ( 125-148 ) of the alpha-subunit of human nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in sera from patients with myasthenia gravis . we measured the amount of antibodies to a synthetic peptide that corresponds to the alpha-subunit residues lys125-thr148 of human acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) in myasthenic sera . we detected anti-peptide antibodies in 52 % ( 89/171 ) of the patients with myasthenia gravis ( mg ) , but none in any of the healthy controls . anti-peptide antibodies should provide a valuable immunologic parameter for the clinical evaluation of mg , but no apparent correlation was observed between the titers of anti-peptide and anti-achr antibodies . 
cavernous hemangioma of the spinal cord : report of 2 unusual cases . we present 2 cases of spinal cord intramedullary cavernous hemangioma ; 1 patient is the 1st reported case of multiple spinal cord lesions . diagnosis is greatly enhanced by the use of mri . 
classification of endometrial cells on cervical cytology . one hundred eighty-eight women who had endometrial cells on cervical cytologic specimens during the secretory phase or in the postmenopausal period were studied retrospectively . each had undergone hysterectomy or endometrial biopsy within 12 months of the original smear . the endometrial cells were classified as typical , atypical , or suspicious for carcinoma . among premenopausal subjects , three of 57 with typical cells had endometrial hyperplasia , one of two with atypical cells had endometrial polyps , and both with cells suspicious for carcinoma had endometrial carcinoma . in the postmenopausal group , ten ( 13.5 % ) of 74 with typical endometrial cells had either hyperplasia or carcinoma , and five ( 22.7 % ) of 22 with atypical cells and 24 77.4 % ) of 31 patients with suspicious cells had either hyperplasia or carcinoma . the present findings and a review of the pertinent literature demonstrate that the classification system used is helpful in predicting the risk for endometrial disease in patients with endometrial cells seen on cervical cytologic smears during the secretory phase or in the postmenopausal period . 
a randomized trial comparing two methods of cold knife conization with laser conization . in a randomized study , 62 women were submitted to cold knife conization with application of sturmdorf sutures , 60 to cold knife conization without sutures , and 61 to laser conization . early hemorrhage occurred in 1.6 , 13.3 , and 6.6 % of women , respectively ( p less than .05 ) , and late hemorrhage in 15.3 , 3.6 , and 11.7 % , respectively . considering early and late hemorrhage together , there was no significant difference among the three treatment groups . dysmenorrhea tended to be more common after application of sturmdorf sutures , as it was reported by 27.8 , 13.2 , and 14.3 % of patients , respectively , but the difference was not statistically significant . dysmenorrhea occurred in 13 % of the cases with a cone height of 20 mm or less and in 26 % of the cases with a cone height greater than 20 mm ( p less than .05 ) . endocervical cells were present significantly more often after sampling with a cytobrush than with a cotton swab ( p less than .0001 ) , whereas the method of conization had no influence . in smears obtained with a cytobrush , endocervical cells were present in 88.0 , 84.9 , and 82.5 % of the cases ; in smears obtained with a cotton swab , endocervical cells were present in 46.6 , 57.7 , and 54.5 % , respectively . we conclude that cold knife conization without sturmdorf sutures is about equal to laser conization in overall complications , but the laser is preferable for outpatient treatment because of a lower frequency of early hemorrhage . sturmdorf sutures should be avoided . smears at follow-up should be taken with a cytobrush and a wooden spatula . 
basement membrane of cervical adenocarcinoma : an immunoperoxidase study of laminin and type iv collagen . the basement membrane components type iv collagen and laminin were examined immunohistochemically in 14 cases of adenocarcinoma of the cervix . the patterns of staining in adenocarcinoma in situ , invasive adenocarcinoma , and early invasive adenocarcinoma were compared to see whether characteristic patterns could be delineated . adenocarcinoma in situ had a uniform intact basement membrane , whereas the basement membrane of invasive adenocarcinoma was fragmented and irregular . cases of early stromal invasion showed early gland buds and outpouchings with defective basement membrane staining . the degree of histologic differentiation of the tumor was not clearly related to the amount of basement membrane component staining . the concept of early stromal invasion in cervical adenocarcinoma , as supported by our immunohistochemical studies , is discussed as it relates to a possible pathogenic mechanism in early invasion and infiltration of adenocarcinoma of the cervix . 
treatment of fallopian tube carcinoma with cisplatin , doxorubicin , and cyclophosphamide . primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube is uncommon and is often treated using regimens active in ovarian carcinoma . evidence is scant that such therapies benefit patients with fallopian tube carcinoma . between december 1979 and july 1988 , we treated 18 patients who had adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube with the combination of cisplatin ( 50 mg/m2 ) , doxorubicin ( 50 mg/m2 ) , and cyclophosphamide ( 500 mg/m2 ) administered intravenously on 1 day every 28 days . histologic confirmation of fallopian tube carcinoma was obtained before entry in the study . three patients had stage i disease , five had stage ii , nine had stage iii , and one had stage iv . sixteen patients received the combination therapy as first-line treatment after cytoreductive surgery , and two patients received it for recurrent carcinoma . seven patients had clinically measurable disease at the start of therapy . two of these patients had a complete clinical response , two had stable disease , and three had progressive disease . eight of the 15 patients with stages ii-iv disease underwent second-look laparotomy ; four had a complete response to therapy and four had a partial response , making the overall response rate 53 % . the toxicity of the regimen was moderate . the median survival was 81 months . patients with stages ii-iv disease had a median survival of 43.9 months and a progression-free survival of 22.5 months . this regimen appears to be active in fallopian tube carcinoma and can result in response rates comparable to those reported for epithelial ovarian cancer . 
debulking of pelvic and para-aortic lymph node metastases in ovarian cancer with the cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator . six patients with metastatic ovarian cancer with extensive involvement of the pelvic and/or para-aortic lymph nodes underwent surgical debulking with the cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator . intraoperative and postoperative morbidity was minimal . it is suggested that this technique may be used for cytoreductive surgery in combination with standard surgical techniques . 
the significance of moderate and severe inflammation on class i papanicolaou smear the significance of a cytologic diagnosis of moderate and severe inflammation with a normal ( class i ) papanicolaou smear has not been addressed . a retrospective review of 596 consecutive cervical smears performed over 13 months revealed 85 women who had a class i cytologic smear with moderate to severe inflammation . seventy-eight patients had colposcopic examinations and were considered for this study . fifty-nine ( 75.6 % ) had cervical punch biopsies and/or endocervical biopsies . of the 78 , 19 ( 24.4 % ) had cervical condylomata and nine ( 11.5 % ) had cervical intraepithelial neoplasia . we conclude that class i cytologic smears with moderate to severe inflammation may be associated with findings of condylomata and cervical dysplasia . 
vitreous changes and macular edema in central retinal vein occlusion . the condition of the posterior vitreous was determined in 56 eyes with central retinal vein occlusion ( crvo ) . using a life-table analysis , it was studied in 56 eyes . the incidence of posterior vitreous detachment ( pvd ) in the crvo eyes at the first vitreous examination did not differ significantly from that in 64 age-matched control eyes . however , the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes increased from 39.3 % at the first vitreous examination to 58.5 % after 6 months , and to 69.6 % 1 year from the examination . the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes during follow-up was statistically higher than that of the controls ( p = .009 ) . the incidence of pvd after the first vitreous examination was significantly higher in eyes with hemorrhagic retinopathy than in eyes with venous stasis retinopathy ( p = .04 ) . in the 34 eyes with macular edema , the edema lasted significantly longer in those with vitreomacular attachment ( vma ) at the first examination than in those without vma at this time ( p = .02 ) . vma may play an important role in the pathogenesis and chronicity of macular edema in crvo . 
management of macular puckers associated with retinal angiomas . monocular visual loss in four patients was caused by epiretinal macular membranes associated with peripheral retinal capillary angiomas or angioma-like lesions . three patients had solitary vascular lesions and one had two discrete vascular lesions . all patients were in good health , with no evidence of the von hippel-lindau syndrome . in three patients , spontaneous peeling of the macular membranes and visual improvement occurred 2 to 6 months after obliteration of the angioma-like lesions with cryotherapy ( two patients ) , or cryotherapy combined with argon laser ( one patient ) . the fourth patient underwent a vitrectomy 8 months after the macular pucker had failed to respond to treatment of the vascular lesion . 
experience with photocoagulation in behcet 's disease . between 1973 and 1987 we examined both eyes of 300 patients with the uveoretinitis-type lesions characteristic of behcet 's disease . of the 556 eyes whose fundus could be examined , 38 eyes ( 6.8 % ) in 33 patients ( 11 % ) had developed retinal capillary nonperfusion , branch retinal vein occlusion , or retinal or disc neovascularization . these eyes were treated by photocoagulation , primarily to forestall vitreous hemorrhage and the development of neovascular glaucoma , as well as to decrease the macular edema resulting from vein occlusion . the treatment , which was well tolerated , was successful in closing retinal capillary nonperfusion areas and eliminating retinal neovascularization . disc neovascularization was resolved completely in some cases , and partially in others . 
fluorescein angiography in ciliary body melanomas . we retrospectively studied the value of iris fluorescein angiography in predicitng benignity or malignancy in 10 cases of ciliary body melanoma with iris extension . no correlation between fluorescein-angiographic appearance and histopathologic features was observed . fluorescein angiography adds little to the management of ciliary body melanomas with iris extension . 
visual disturbance in patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk . visual disturbance in 11 patients with melanocytoma of the optic disk was analyzed . goldmann visual field examination showed enlargement of mariotte 's blind spot in 7 of 10 patients ( 70 % ) and visual field defect or depression in 7 patients ( 70 % ) . in 6 of the 7 patients with visual field defect of depression ( 86 % ) , the portion of visual field damage corresponded with the location of the tumor and retinal nerve fiber bundle defect . in 1 patient , sudden loss of visual acuity occurred , presumably due to anterior ischemic optic neuropathy induced by melanocytoma . 
argon green ( 514 nm ) versus krypton red ( 647 nm ) modified grid laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular edema . between 1984 and 1988 , 225 eyes of 132 patients were entered in a prospective , randomized clinical trial to determine if any significant differences exist between treatment with argon green ( 514 nm ) and krypton red ( 647 nm ) modified grid laser photocoagulation for patients with diffuse diabetic maculopathy with or without cystoid macular edema . at the 12 - and 24-month follow-up visits , no statistically significant difference was found between the two groups with respect to all of the following : reduction or elimination of macular edema , improvement in visual acuity , worsening of visual acuity , number of treatments per eye , and effect on the visual field . at the 12-month follow-up visit , none of the following factors statistically affected the visual outcome in either of the two groups : a history of systemic hypertension , systemic vascular disease , cystoid macular edema , or initial poor visual acuity . 
the epidemiology of ophthalmic malignancies in new york state . the epidemiologic characteristics of more than 1400 primary eye cancers ( icd-9 , site 190 ) diagnosed among new york state ( nys ) residents between 1975 and 1986 are described . among nys male residents , the average annual age-adjusted incidence rate was 7.5 per 1,000,000 , and among nys female residents , the rate was 5.4 per 1,000,000 ( male : female rate ratio , 1.39 ) . the majority of ophthalmic malignancies were included within three histologic groupings : melanomas ( 70.4 % ) , retinoblastomas ( 9.8 % ) , and squamous cell carcinomas ( 9.2 % ) . the average annual incidence of retinoblastoma among persons in nys who were less than 5 years of age was 9.5 per 1,000,000 for boys and 8.7 per 1,000,000 for girls ( male : female rate ratio , 1.09 ) . the average annual incidence ( age-adjusted ) of ocular melanomas was 4.9 per 1,000,000 among men and 3.7 per 1,000,000 among women in nys ( male : female rate ratio , 1.32 ) . expanded knowledge of the epidemiology of ophthalmic cancers can help to develop a foundation on which to monitor disease patterns and can serve to stimulate further etiologic research involving these rare malignancies . 
introducing the ' walk-up ' flap . reconstructive oral and maxillofacial surgeons often find the need for additional soft tissue even when a myocutaneous flap has been previously placed . this article introduces the principles , technique , and results of 32 " walk-up " muscle flaps derived from existing myocutaneous flaps . the anastomotic vascular ingrowth at the original myocutaneous flap 's distal end permits its proximal detachment and axial vessel ligation to rotate the proximal two thirds to a tissue-deficient site . in our experience at the university of miami , these flaps have been predictable ( 97 % viable transfer rate ) , have provided vascular soft tissue in deficient areas , and have been skin grafted at their surface to increase oral lining or skin cover , among several other uses . 
multiple myeloma and bullous lichenoid lesions : an unusual association . many associations of lichenoid reactions have been described but this case appears to be a previously unreported association -- with multiple myeloma . this case also demonstrates the necessity of a mucosal biopsy with adequate hematologic and serologic investigations to obtain a definitive diagnosis . 
thermally induced ' nicotine ' stomatitis . a case report . a palatal lesion resembling " nicotine " stomatitis was found in a woman who did not smoke . however , the patient frequently drank extremely hot beverages . after she was instructed to reduce the temperature of the beverages , the lesion almost completely resolved . this suggests that heat was the primary cause of this lesion and also implicates heat as the major cause of nicotine stomatitis . 
diagnosis of oral hairy leukoplakia by ultrastructural examination of exfoliative cytologic specimens . lingual exfoliative cytologic specimens ( scrapings ) were obtained from 18 patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus with clinical oral hairy leukoplakia . buccal mucosal scrapings were obtained from 12 of these patients . the specimens were processed for examination by transmission electron microscopy ( tem ) . sixteen ( 89 % ) of the lingual specimens revealed infection of keratinocytes by herpes-type virus . there was no evidence of virus infection in the 12 buccal mucosal scrapings . fungal hyphae were seen by tem in 14 ( 78 % ) of the lingual scrapings and two ( 17 % ) of the buccal scrapings . one exfoliative specimen and two biopsy specimens were stained for epstein-barr virus dna with a dna probe . the demonstration of herpes-type virions by tem in keratinocytes from a lesion clinically suspected to be hairy leukoplakia provides direct , objective diagnosis . furthermore , use of exfoliative cytologic specimens provides a clinically simple , noninvasive technique . 
the cellular composition of basal cell adenoma of the parotid gland : an immunohistochemical analysis . four cases of basal cell adenoma of the parotid gland were examined immunohistochemically to characterize their cellular composition . in all cases epithelial membrane antigen and keratin were detected in the inner luminal cells ; some cells also showed positive staining for secretory functional markers , indicating their differentiation toward secretory epithelium . in tubular and trabecular types the outer cells consistently displayed an intense staining for vimentin and some were also positive for actin , indicating their myoepithelial nature . in the solid type , most tumor cells resembled the ductal cells or basal cells of larger ducts in normal gland with regard to their immunoreactivity . our results may suggest that the proportion and arrangement of heterogeneous tumor cells are responsible for different histologic patterns of the salivary basal cell adenoma . 
primary malignant melanoma in the parotid gland . reports of primary malignant melanoma arising from the parotid salivary gland are extremely rare and , to date , have been sporadic . we report a pertinent case , and tabulate and correlate the clinical findings of the 13 cases reported thus far in the literature . the most common symptom is a progressively enlarging , asymptomatic , firm , and fixed mass . total excision has been the established treatment of choice . the contribution of radiotherapy , chemotherapy , and immunotherapy remains unclear , and it is not possible at present to predict the outcome of treatment in individual patients . although rare , primary malignant melanoma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of parotid tumors . the clinical significance of establishing the diagnosis of primary malignant melanoma of the parotid gland is emphasized . 
clinical and instrumental evaluation of sensory function before and after percutaneous anterolateral cordotomy at cervical level in man . sensory perception thresholds were assessed by clinical testing and by quantitative instrumental testing before and after operation in 16 subjects for whom unilateral percutaneous cervical cordotomy was performed for the relief of pain due to malignant disease , and compared with clinical assessments of sensory function . we were able to confirm the association between deficit in pin-prick sensation and pain relief in the majority of instances , though the completeness or otherwise of pain relief does not correspond to absence of pin-prick sensation . there is no objective interference with low threshold mechanical sensation as measured instrumentally , although cordotomised subjects do not experience startle , tickle , or cutaneous erotic sensation when subjected to appropriate low intensity tactile sensation . quantitative instrumental testing shows that the greatest deficits produced by cordotomy are in the sensations of skinfold pinch ( ? = tissue-damage pain ) and skin cooling . the latter is transduced in the periphery by a delta fibres ; sensations of warmth and hot pain , transduced by primary afferent c fibres , are much less significantly affected . our findings thus fail to resolve the question as to whether chronic clinical pain is mainly an a delta - or a c fibre-mediated phenomenon . 
screening for neuroblastoma at 3 weeks of age : methods and preliminary results from the quebec neuroblastoma screening project . a large neuroblastoma screening study was recently started in the province of quebec , canada . this project , a collaboration between the quebec network for genetic medicine and the university of minnesota , is studying the impact of screening infants for the preclinical detection of neuroblastoma on the population-based mortality caused by this tumor . all infants born in quebec during a 5-year period will be screened twice , at 3 weeks and at 6 months . urinary homovanillic acid and vanillylmandelic acid determination from dried filter paper samples is used for screening . initial qualitative screening is done by means of thin-layer chromatography with confirmatory quantitative screening by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( gc-ms ) . during the initial 6 months of 3-week screening , 41,673 neonates ( 92 % compliance rate ) were screened and 10.6 % of them were tested also by gc-ms . nine of these neonates had positive results on two gc-ms tests and were referred for evaluation to rule out the presence of neuroblastoma . four had the tumor , 1 had a calcified adrenal gland , and 4 had no tumor detected . three additional neonates had clinical diagnosis of neuroblastoma before they reached the screening age of 3 weeks . a neuroblastoma that did not secrete homovanillic acid or vanillylmandelic acid was diagnosed clinically in 1 additional patient who tested negative by screening . 
when epilepsy masquerades as heart disease . awareness is key to avoiding misdiagnosis . autonomic neural impulses that accompany discharges during a seizure can cause a variety of cardiac manifestations , including cardiac arrhythmias , sudden death , anginal chest pain , neurogenic pulmonary edema , and symptoms of pheochromocytoma . either generalized or focal seizures may generate such signs and symptoms . a better appreciation of cardiac problems caused by epilepsy is helpful in preventing misdiagnosis , because the clinical picture in such a patient may be confusing . 
expression of murine renin genes in subcutaneous connective tissue . a renin promoter-large tumor antigen ( t antigen ) fusion gene was constructed to provide a reporter function for renin expression in transgenic mice . these transgenic mice gave rise to tumors in subcutaneous soft tissue , which was attributed to transgene expression at this site . an immunohistochemical analysis of transgenic fetuses from several independent lines revealed scattered t-antigen-containing mesenchymal cells and fibroblasts in the subcutaneous layer of the skin between the panniculus carnosus muscle of the skin and the skeletal muscle of the body wall . this localization is consistent with the location of overt tumorigenesis in adult mice . this pattern was specific for the renin-t antigen fusion gene as no immunohistochemical staining was observed in transgenic fetuses containing a heterologous promoter-t antigen fusion gene . northern blot analysis of tumor rna indicated that most of the tumors expressed both t antigen and the endogenous renin gene ren-1c . in addition , when multiple renin genes were introduced by crossing transgenic mice with nontransgenic dba/2j mice , which contain another allele of the ren-1 locus as well as the duplicated locus ren-2 , the resultant tumors expressed the ren-2 gene . northern blots were then used to analyze renin expression in the subcutaneous tissue of normal mice . fully processed renin mrna was detected in eviscerated 15.5-day postcoitus fetal and newborn carcasses and in newborn skin . our data indicate that there is a renin-expressing cell population in fetal and newborn subcutaneous tissue . 
e1a-dependent expression of adenovirus genes in otf963 embryonal carcinoma cells : role of e1a-induced differentiation . some undifferentiated f9 embryonal carcinoma cells allow adenovirus genes to be expressed independently of the e1a oncogene normally required for their activation ; this has been attributed to a cellular equivalent of e1a in f9 cells . however , transcription of all early genes was low in undifferentiated otf963 embryonic carcinoma cells during the first 48 hr after infection with adenovirus type 5 ( ad5 ) . transcription then increased to about the level seen 16 hr after infection of cells induced to differentiate by retinoic acid ( ra ) ( referred to as ra-df9 cells ) , but this increase did not occur in cells infected by the e1a deletion mutant dl312 . addition of e1a in trans , or of ra , had no immediate effect on viral transcription in otf963 cells , but viral transcription increased about 48 hr after these additions . ad5 induced transcription of several differentiation-specific genes in otf963 cells with about the same kinetics as their induction by ra . these genes were superinduced in ra-df9 cells by camp or infection by adenovirus . we suggest the small amount of e1a produced early in infection of otf963 cells activates cellular genes , some of which are differentiation specific and required for efficient transcription of viral genes , so that e1a both induces and is induced by differentiation . the simple hypothesis of a cellular equivalent to e1a does not adequately explain the complex interactions between viral and cellular genes in otf963 embryonic carcinoma cells . 
the human immunodeficiency virus type 2 vpr gene is essential for productive infection of human macrophages . the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) genetic determinant ( s ) responsible for tropism in human t cells or macrophages are not well defined . we studied the role of the hiv type 2 ( hiv-2 ) nef and vpr genes in viral tropism . hiv-2 mutants , lacking either vpr or nef genes , or both vpr and nef , were obtained by site-specific mutagenesis of a biologically active hiv-2 proviral clone ( hiv-2sbl / isy ) , which is infectious in both human t cells and macrophages . viral progeny carrying mutations of nef , vpr , or of both nef and vpr genes replicated more efficiently than the parental virus in primary human peripheral blood cells and in the human hut 78 t-cell line . in contrast , the hiv-2 nef - mutant infected human macrophages as efficiently as the parental virus , whereas viruses lacking the vpr gene either alone or in conjunction with the lack of the nef gene did not replicate in macrophages . thus , some lack of nef in hiv-2 enhances viral replication in t cells and does not interfere with viral replication in primary macrophages , whereas vpr is essential for replication of hiv-2 in human macrophages . because the parental hiv-2sbl / isy cloned virus also infects rhesus macaques , the use in animal studies of these hiv-2 mutants with differences in cell tropism and rates of replication will be highly useful in understanding the mechanism of viral infectivity and possibly pathogenicity in vivo . 
human colorectal cancers display abnormal fourier-transform infrared spectra . fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy ( ft-ir ) was applied to the study of tissue sections of human colorectal cancer . pairs of tissue samples from colorectal cancer and histologically normal mucosa 5-10 cm away from the tumor were obtained from 11 patients who underwent partial colectomy . all cancer specimens displayed abnormal spectra compared with the corresponding normal tissues . these changes involved the phosphate and c-o stretching bands , the ch stretch region , and the pressure dependence of the ch2 bending and c = o stretching modes . our findings indicate that in colonic malignant tissue , there are changes in the degree of hydrogen-bonding of ( i ) oxygen atoms of the backbone of nucleic acids ( increased ) ; ( ii ) oh groups of serine , tyrosine , and threonine residues ( any or all of them ) of cell proteins ( decreased ) ; and ( iii ) the c = o groups of the acyl chains of membrane lipids ( increased ) . in addition , they indicate changes in the structure of proteins and membrane lipids ( as judged by the changes in their ratio of methyl to methylene groups ) and in the packing and the conformational structure of the methylene chains of membrane lipids . the cell ( s ) of the malignant colon tissues responsible for these spectral abnormalities is unknown . cultured colon adenocarcinoma cell lines displayed similarly abnormal ft-ir spectra . the diagnostic potential of the observed changes is discussed . 
a rhesus monkey model for sexual transmission of a papillomavirus isolated from a squamous cell carcinoma . recently we molecularly cloned and characterized a papillomavirus from a lymph node metastasis of a primary penile carcinoma found in a rhesus monkey ; this virus species , rhesus papillomavirus type 1 ( rhpv-1 ) , is similar to oncogenic human papillomaviruses ( hpvs ) , such as hpv-16 or hpv-18 , in that the rhpv-1 dna was found to be integrated in the tumor cell dna . to compare the sexual transmission and oncogenic nature of rhpv-1 with these hpvs , we undertook an extensive retrospective study of a group of rhesus monkeys whose sexual mating and offspring histories were known . these animals had mated directly with the index male mentioned above or were secondarily exposed to this virus through intermediate sexual partners . this study combines cytological , histopathological , and several complementary hybridization and dna amplification techniques on multiple tissue samples to demonstrate the sexually transmitted nature of rhpv-1 . the oncogenic potential of rhpv-1 is suggested in several of the infected animals by the presence of various degrees of neoplasia including squamous cell cancer of the cervix . 
transfer of secretory proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi apparatus : discrimination between homologous and heterologous transfer in intact heterokaryons . to examine aspects of the transfer of secretory proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi apparatus in situ , heterokaryons were formed between hep g2 human hepatoma cells and wi-38 human fibroblasts . the cells were appropriately treated with cycloheximide before fusion , which emptied them of their respective secretory proteins , serum albumin for the hep g2 cells and procollagen i for the wi-38 cells . after fusion was complete , the cycloheximide was washed out , protein synthesis was resumed , and the rates of reappearance of serum albumin and procollagen i in the two separated golgi apparatuses within each heterokaryon were followed by immunofluorescence microscopy . serum albumin was found to always reappear first in the golgi apparatus contributed by the hep g2 half of the heterokaryon , and procollagen i in the golgi apparatus of the wi-38 half . these results suggest that the endoplasmic reticulum-to-golgi apparatus transfer in situ is not simply a stochastic process but is either spatially restricted or exhibits cell-type specificity or both . 
adult t-cell leukemia-derived factor/thioredoxin , produced by both human t-lymphotropic virus type i - and epstein-barr virus-transformed lymphocytes , acts as an autocrine growth factor and synergizes with interleukin 1 and interleukin 2 . interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) has been obtained from the epstein-barr virus-infected b-lymphoblastoid cell line 3b6 and shown to be involved in autocrine growth of 3b6 b cells . independently , adult t-cell leukemia-derived factor ( adf ) was purified from human t-lymphotropic virus i-infected leukemic t-cell line ( atl-2 ) and reported as an interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) receptor-inducing factor . we have previously reported the same molecular mass , pi , and nh2-terminal amino acid sequence for both 3b6-derived il-1 and adf . cdna cloning of adf demonstrated high homology with the prokaryotic disulfide reducing enzyme thioredoxin . we show here that adf and 3b6-derived il-1 are identical . by rna blot , 3b6 and atl-2 cells were shown to contain high levels of 0.6-kilobase mrna corresponding to adf . such message was not detected in resting peripheral blood lymphocytes but could be weakly induced by lymphocyte activation . antibodies have been raised against synthetic peptides corresponding to the nh2 terminus and the cooh terminus of adf . immunoblotting and sequential immunoprecipitation with these antibodies revealed the same 13-kda protein in 3b6 and atl-2 cells . recombinant adf could sustain growth of 3b6 and atl-2 cells at low cellular concentration without fetal calf serum ; adf , thus , appears involved in their autocrine growth . similarly , recombinant adf could enhance growth of other b-cell lines , including the epstein-barr virus-negative burkitt lymphoma line bl41 and the lymphoblastoid cell lines crag8 , crb95 , and 1g8 . finally , recombinant adf exhibits marked synergism with other cytokines , such as il-1 and il-2 , allowing virally infected lymphocytes to respond to suboptimal amounts of a variety of growth factors . 
the recombinant immunotoxin anti-tac ( fv ) - pseudomonas exotoxin 40 is cytotoxic toward peripheral blood malignant cells from patients with adult t-cell leukemia . anti-tac ( fv ) - pe40 is a recombinant single-chain immunotoxin containing the heavy and light variable regions of the anti-tac monoclonal antibody fused to a mutant form of pseudomonas exotoxin ( pe ) . anti-tac binds to the p55 subunit of the human interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) receptor , and anti-tac ( fv ) - pe40 kills human or monkey cell lines that contain either the intact il-2 receptor or its p55 subunit alone . to assess the usefulness of anti-tac ( fv ) - pe40 in treatment of il-2 receptor-positive leukemia , we tested peripheral blood mononuclear cells from six patients with adult t-cell leukemia . in each of the six patients , anti-tac ( fv ) - pe40 was extremely cytotoxic to the malignant cells . metabolic activity and sensitivity of the fresh cells improved when a small amount of il-2 ( 10 units per ml ) was present during incubation . the toxin concentration necessary to inhibit protein synthesis by 50 % after 16-hr incubation of cells with immunotoxin varied from 1.6 to 16 ng/ml ( 2.5-25 x 10 ( -11 ) m ) . in every case , binding was by means of the tac antigen because anti-tac ( fv ) - pe40 cytotoxicity was prevented by adding excess anti-tac antibody . moreover , anti-tac alone or an inactive mutant of anti-tac ( fv ) - pe40 without adp-ribosylation activity had very little cytotoxic activity . peripheral blood mononuclear cells from normal controls , from a patient with tac-negative leukemia , and from adult t-cell leukemia patients without significant peripheral blood involvement were not sensitive to anti-tac ( fv ) - pe40 . these results indicate that anti-tac ( fv ) - pe40 is a potent cytotoxin against adult t-cell leukemia cells in vitro and warrants clinical testing . 
a 170-kda membrane-bound protease is associated with the expression of invasiveness by human malignant melanoma cells . malignant spreading of cancer cells requires cell surface proteases that cleave the crosslinked collagenous matrix of connective tissues . from correlating the morphologically defined invasiveness of tumor cells with the presence of specific membrane-associated proteases , we have identified a malignant human melanoma cell line , lox , that invades crosslinked gelatin films in vitro and contains uniquely a neutral 170-kda gelatinase in the cell membrane . a similar gelatinase was found in membranes recovered from culture media conditioned with lox . the 170-kda gelatinase is a wheat germ agglutinin-binding protein . the proteolytic activity is maximal at neutral ph , enhanced by edta and dithiothreitol , inhibited by the cysteine protease inhibitors n-ethylmaleimide , hgcl2 , and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride , and can bind to an organomercurial adsorbent , suggesting that it is a neutral sulfhydryl-sensitive protease . this 170-kda gelatinase of lox cells was not found in a control melanoma cell line , sk-mel28 , or in 32 other tumor cell lines that did not show extracellular gelatin degradation . thus , we have identified a large membrane-bound protease that may be a specific marker molecule for melanoma cell invasiveness . 
homeobox gene expression plus autocrine growth factor production elicits myeloid leukemia . in the murine myelomonocytic leukemia wehi-3b , proviral insertions have induced expression of the hox-2 .4 homeobox gene and the gene for the myeloid growth factor interleukin 3 ( il-3 ) . to assess their potential oncogenic role , normal bone marrow cells were infected with retroviruses bearing the genes for il-3 or il-3 plus hox-2 .4 . unlike the il-3 virus , the il-3 / hox-2 .4 virus was highly leukemogenic . infected cells expressing both genes exhibited retarded differentiation in vitro , generated myelomonocytic cell lines , and provoked a rapid , transplantable myeloid leukemia in vivo . the oncogenic action of hox-2 .4 appears to derive from its ability to impede the il-3-driven terminal differentiation of myeloid cells . the results suggest that homeobox genes can regulate key differentiation processes such as self-renewal capacity and that their inappropriate expression can be oncogenic . 
introduction of nerve growth factor ( ngf ) receptors into a medulloblastoma cell line results in expression of high - and low-affinity ngf receptors but not ngf-mediated differentiation . expression of the cloned human nerve growth factor receptor ( ngfr ) cdna in cell lines can generate both high - and low-affinity binding sites . since the inability to respond appropriately to differentiation factors such as ngf may contribute to determining the malignant phenotype of neuroblastomas , we sought to determine whether the same is true of medulloblastomas . to generate a human central nervous system neuronal cell line that would respond to ngf , we infected the medulloblastoma cell line d283 med with a defective retrovirus carrying the cdna coding for the human ngfr . the resultant cells ( med-ngfr ) expressed abundant low - and high-affinity ngfrs , and ngf treatment induced a rapid transient increase of c-fos mrna in the ngfr-expressing cells but not in the parent line or in cells infected with virus lacking the cdna insert . however , the med-ngfr cells did not internalize the ngfr at high efficiency , nor did they differentiate in response to ngf . three important conclusions emerge from this study : ( i ) internalization of ngfrs is not necessary for some early rapid transcriptional effects of ngf ; ( ii ) an unknown factor ( s ) that cooperates with the cloned ngfr in allowing high-affinity ngf binding is found in a primitive central nervous system cell line ; and ( iii ) ngfrs introduced into and expressed by d283 med ( i.e. , med-ngfr ) cells are partially functional but are unable to induce differentiation in these primitive neuron-like tumor cells , implying that high-efficiency receptor-mediated endocytosis of ngf and its receptor may be a necessary step in the cascade of events leading to ngf-mediated differentiation . 
rapid , nonradioactive detection of clonal t-cell receptor gene rearrangements in lymphoid neoplasms . southern blot hybridization analysis of clonal antigen receptor gene rearrangements has proved to be a valuable adjunct to conventional methods for diagnosing lymphoid neoplasia . however , southern blot analysis suffers from a number of technical disadvantages , including the time necessary to obtain results , the use of radioactivity , and the susceptibility of the method to various artifacts . we have investigated an alternative approach for assessing the clonality of antigen receptor gene rearrangements in lymphoid tissue biopsy specimens . this approach involves the amplification of rearranged gamma t-cell receptor genes by the polymerase chain reaction and analysis of the polymerase chain reaction products by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis . by use of this approach , clonal rearrangements from neoplastic lymphocytes constituting as little as 0.1-1 % of the total cells in the tissue are detected as discrete bands in the denaturing gel after the gel is stained with ethidium bromide and viewed under ultraviolet light . in contrast , polyclonal rearrangements from reactive lymphocytes appear as a diffuse smear along the length of the gel . our findings suggest that polymerase chain reaction combined with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis may offer a rapid , nonradioactive , and sensitive alternative to southern blot analysis for the diagnostic evaluation of lymphoid tissue biopsy specimens . 
dioxin-inducible , ah receptor-dependent transcription in vitro . we have developed a homologous in vitro transcription system that requires ( i ) 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( called tcdd or dioxin ) , ( ii ) the ah receptor , and ( iii ) a dioxin-responsive enhancer for activity . unfractionated nuclear extracts from mouse hepatoma cells contain an inhibitor and fail to direct transcription in vitro . however , following phosphocellulose chromatography and reconstitution , the fractionated nuclear extract directs accurate transcription in vitro , using as a template the promoter/enhancer region from the mouse cytochrome p1-450 gene ( cyp1a1 ) linked to a " g-free cassette " ( which generates a transcript with no guanosine residues ) . extracts from tcdd-treated cells exhibit higher activity than extracts from untreated cells when transcribing a template containing both the promoter and enhancer but not when transcribing a template containing the promoter alone . extracts from ah receptor-defective cells fail to direct in vitro transcription in a tcdd-inducible fashion . a regulatory element that contains two binding sites for the liganded ah receptor plus a truncated cyp1a1 promoter suffices to direct tcdd-inducible , ah receptor-dependent transcription in vitro . the inducible , receptor-dependent , enhancer-dependent properties of this system make it appropriate for analyzing in vitro the mechanism of dioxin action and the function of the ah receptor . 
molecular structure of a major insulin/mitogen-activated 70-kda s6 protein kinase . the molecular structure of a rat hepatoma 70-kda insulin/mitogen-stimulated s6 protein kinase , obtained by molecular cloning , is compared to that of a rat homolog of the 85-kda xenopus s6 protein kinase alpha ; both kinases were cloned from h4 hepatoma cdna libraries . the 70-kda s6 kinase ( calculated molecular mass of 59,186 da ) exhibits a single catalytic domain that is most closely related in amino acid sequence ( 56 % identity ) to the amino-terminal , kinase c-like domain of the rat p85 s6 kinase ( calculated molecular mass of 82,695 da ) ; strong similarity extends through a further 67 residues carboxyl-terminal to the catalytic domain ( 40 % identity ) , corresponding to a region also conserved among the kinase c family . outside of this segment of approximately 330 amino acids , the structures of the p70 and p85 s6 kinases diverge substantially . the p70 s6 kinase is known to be activated through serine/threonine phosphorylation by unidentified insulin/mitogen-activated protein kinases . a model for the regulation of p70 s6 protein kinase activity is proposed wherein the low activity of the unphosphorylated enzyme results from the binding of a basic , inhibitory pseudosubstrate site ( located carboxyl-terminal to the extended catalytic domain ) to an acidic substrate binding region ( located amino-terminal to the catalytic domain ) ; substrate binding is thereby prevented . s6 kinase activation requires displacement of this inhibitory segment , which is proposed to occur consequent to its multiple phosphorylation . the putative autoinhibitory segment contains several serine and threonine residues , each followed directly by a proline residue . this motif may prevent autophosphorylation but permit transphosphorylation ; two of these serine residues reside in a maturation promoting factor ( mpf ) / cdc-2 consensus motif . thus , hormonal regulation of s6 kinase may involve the action of mpf/cdc -2 or protein kinases with related substrate specificity . 
identical splicing of aberrant epidermal growth factor receptor transcripts from amplified rearranged genes in human glioblastomas . the epidermal growth factor receptor gene has been found to be amplified and rearranged in human glioblastomas in vivo . here we present the sequence across a splice junction of aberrant epidermal growth factor receptor transcripts derived from corresponding and uniquely rearranged genes that are coamplified and coexpressed with non-rearranged epidermal growth factor receptor genes in six primary human glioblastomas . each of these six tumors contains aberrant transcripts derived from identical splicing of exon 1 to exon 8 as a consequence of a deletion-rearrangement of the amplified gene , the extent of which is variable among these tumors . in spite of this intertumoral variability , each intragenic rearrangement results in loss of the same 801 coding bases ( exons 2-7 ) and creation of a new codon at the novel splice site in their corresponding transcripts . these rearrangements do not , however , affect the mrna sequence for the signal peptide , the first five codons , or the reading frame downstream of the rearrangement . 
correlation of the structure of the transmembrane domain of the neu oncogene-encoded p185 protein with its function . the human homologue of the neu oncogene is frequently found in human tumors . certain amino acid substitutions at position 664 in the transmembrane domain of the neu oncogene-encoded p185 protein product are known to cause malignant transformation of cells . using conformational energy analysis based on ecepp ( empirical conformational energies for polypeptides program ) , we have previously determined the preferred three-dimensional structures for the transmembrane domain of the p185 protein with a transforming ( glutamic acid ) and a nontransforming ( valine ) substitution at the critical position 664 and found that the global minimum-energy conformation of this region in the nontransforming protein contains a sharp bend , whereas the global minimum-energy conformation for this region from the transforming protein is entirely alpha-helical . we now demonstrate that this result holds for other known nontransforming ( glycine , histidine , tyrosine , and lysine ) and transforming ( glutamine ) substitutions at position 664 . furthermore , a simple statistical thermodynamic analysis of the results indicates that approximately 85 % of each of the nontransforming sequences exist with the bend at positions 664 and 665 , while approximately 90 % of each of the transforming sequences exist as an alpha-helix . about 9 % of the nontransforming sequences exist as the alpha-helix . these results suggest that if the intracellular concentration of the normal protein is increased at least 10-fold , thereby increasing the alpha-helical form by this factor , cell transformation should result . this conclusion is directly supported by genetic experiments in which this level of overexpression of the normal protein was achieved with attendant cell transformation . 
sixty consecutive breast reconstructions with the inflatable expander : a critical appraisal . breast reconstruction using inflatable expanders has become an established and preferred technique . although our knowledge of the biomechanical changes occurring in expanded skin has increased greatly , little information is available regarding average aesthetic results achieved with this technique . in order to eliminate the bias of best case selection reports , this study of 60 consecutive patients undergoing skin-expansion breast reconstruction was undertaken . results of the study demonstrated a significant frequency and diversity of complications . in particular , immediate breast reconstruction with skin expanders was identified as a high-risk procedure because of its association with skin necrosis and delayed wound healing . although two procedures -- insertion and replacement -- had been anticipated , patients from both the boston and new york groups required approximately three operations to complete the expansion process . average aesthetic results , often characterized by problems of symmetry , ptosis , and contour , need to be recognized and improved . 
a prospective clinical evaluation of autogenous vein grafts used as a nerve conduit for distal sensory nerve defects of 3 cm or less . the purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of autogenous vein grafts as nerve grafts ( avnc ) for bridging of small peripheral sensory nerve gaps as compared with direct repair and with conventional nerve grafting techniques ( ang ) . patients with painful neuroma or segmental nerve injury of 3 cm were chosen as the test group . those amenable to direct repair were classified as controls . between 1982 to 1988 , a total of 22 patients were enrolled in this study . a total of 34 nerves were repaired , 15 with a venous nerve conduit , 4 with a sural nerve graft , and 15 with direct repair . significant symptom relief and satisfactory sensory function return were uniformly observed . the two-point discrimination measurements indicated superiority of direct repair and probably of conventional nerve grafting . however , the universally favorable patient acceptance and the return of measurable two-point discrimination indicates the effectiveness of autogenous vein grafts as nerve conduits when selectively applied to bridge a small nerve gap ( less than or equal to 3 cm ) on nonessential peripheral sensory nerves . 
dacron fabric-enveloped hydroxyapatite prosthesis for sternal tumor defect : an autopsy report . a 38-year-old housewife with solitary plasmacytoma of the manubrium who underwent a subtotal sternectomy treated by resection of the lesion is reported . this was followed by replacement with a dacron fabric-enveloped hydroxyapatite prosthesis . the dacron fabric was sutured to the surrounding tissues , and then the clavicle was passed through the cylindrical-shaped dacron fabric to form a sternoclavicular joint capsule . the patient returned to her daily life 3 months after the operation . she had no trouble in her daily living , without any dislocation of the sternoclavicular joints or any displacement of the artificial sternum . the autopsy examination about 1 year after the operation showed that the dacron fabric enveloping the artificial sternum became stronger with time . the sternoclavicular joint also was stably fixed , and the dacron fabric fulfilled its function as an artificial articular capsule and biologic fixation of the surrounding supporting tissues . 
interventional radiology of the biliary tract . intraductal radiation . one palliative method of treating patients with a high duct cholangiocarcinoma is the use of 192ir wire . this is placed through the tumor , which has been previously intubated , and delivers a high local dose of radiation . the mean survival time in 30 patients treated with intraductal radiation was 16.8 months , an improvement compared to surgical bypass or endoscopic and radiologic drainage procedures . 
pneumonia due to legionella micdadei in bone marrow transplant recipients . legionella micdadei has previously been described as a cause of nosocomial pneumonia , particularly in kidney transplant recipients . cell-mediated immunity is the principal host defense against this pathogen . a common clinical scenario in the immunocompromised host is that of septic pulmonary embolus , but asymptomatic infections have also been reported . the organism is weakly acid-fast in clinical specimens but loses this property when grown on solid media . we report two cases of l. micdadei pneumonia , differing markedly in clinical severity and outcome , in bone marrow transplant recipients . additionally , we note the growth of the organism in liquid culture media with preservation of its acid-fast property . 
current advances in the diagnosis and treatment of aids : an introduction . significant progress has been made in the diagnosis and treatment of aids . laboratory tests available for assessment of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection include the detection of antibodies to hiv type 1 , the direct detection of the virus , the identification of surrogate markers , and the phenotypic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells . clinicians have made great strides in the treatment of tumors , opportunistic infections , and complications associated with aids as well as in the treatment of the infection itself . in selected patients , treatment with interferon-alpha has been successful against aids-related kaposi 's sarcoma . attempts to treat the leukopenia and anemia of patients with aids by the administration of hematopoietic growth factors have resulted in increased white blood cell counts and a decrease in erythrocyte transfusion requirements . in addition to zidovudine , several antiretroviral agents are undergoing testing , including the nucleoside analogues dideoxycytidine and dideoxyinosine , soluble cd4 , and the glycosidase inhibitor n-butyldeoxynojirimycin . 
cytomegalovirus infections in bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infections were studied in 785 bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy . cmv excretion occurred in 24 % , viremia in 9 % , seroconversion in 40 % , and overall active infection in 47 % . cmv disease was much less common . retinitis , enteritis , and pneumonitis occurred in only one , five ( less than 1 % ) , and 55 ( 7 % ) of the patients , respectively . allograft recipients were more likely to develop cmv disease than were autograft patients ( p = .0001 ) despite comparable rates of active cmv infection . cmv disease was rare after primary infection in both autograft and allograft recipients ( 0 and 1 % , respectively ) . in contrast , cmv disease occurred in 16 % of seropositive allograft recipients . among allograft recipients , risk factors for cmv pneumonitis were seropositivity , age greater than 10 years , and acute graft-vs . - host disease , while the use of cyclosporine as prophylaxis against graft-vs . - host disease was protective . although active infection rates did not decrease , the rates of cmv pneumonitis in allograft recipients during successive years declined significantly ( p less than .001 ) . 
detection of bcr-abl fusion in chronic myelogeneous leukemia by in situ hybridization . chronic myelogeneous leukemia ( cml ) is genetically characterized by fusion of the bcr and abl genes on chromosomes 22 and 9 , respectively . in most cases , the fusion involves a reciprocal translocation t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) , which produces the cytogenetically distinctive philadelphia chromosome ( ph1 ) . fusion can be detected by southern ( dna ) analysis or by in vitro amplification of the messenger rna from the fusion gene with polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) . these techniques are sensitive but can not be applied to single cells . two-color fluorescence in situ hybridization ( fish ) was used with probes from portions of the bcr and abl genes to detect the bcr-abl fusion in individual blood and bone marrow cells from six patients . the fusion event was detected in all samples analyzed , of which three were cytogenetically ph1-negative . one of the ph1-negative samples was also pcr-negative . this approach is fast and sensitive , and provides potential for determining the frequency of the abnormality in different cell lineages . 
regulation of gene expression with double-stranded phosphorothioate oligonucleotides . alteration of gene transcription by inhibition of specific transcriptional regulatory proteins is necessary for determining how these factors participate in cellular differentiation . the functions of these proteins can be antagonized by several methods , each with specific limitations . inhibition of sequence-specific dna-binding proteins was achieved with double-stranded ( ds ) phosphorothioate oligonucleotides that contained octamer or kappa b consensus sequences . the phosphorothioate oligonucleotides specifically bound either octamer transcription factor or nuclear factor ( nf ) - kappa b. the modified oligonucleotides accumulated in cells more effectively than standard ds oligonucleotides and modulated gene expression in a specific manner . octamer-dependent activation of a reporter plasmid or nf-kappa b-dependent activation of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) enhancer was inhibited when the appropriate phosphorothioate oligonucleotide was added to a transiently transfected b cell line . addition of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides that contained the octamer consensus to jurkat t leukemia cells inhibited interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) secretion to a degree similar to that observed with a mutated octamer site in the il-2 enhancer . the ds phosphorothioate oligonucleotides probably compete for binding of specific transcription factors and may provide anti-viral , immunosuppressive , or other therapeutic effects . 
survey of alabama physicians ' use of mammography , 1989 . in early 1989 we surveyed by questionnaire alabama primary care physicians ( n = 1800 ) concerning their attitudes toward and use of mammography . there were 681 respondents ( 37.8 % ) . the majority ( 83 % ) recommend mammograms for their patients according to the american cancer society guidelines and obtain baseline studies in asymptomatic women between the ages of 35 and 40 years . it appears that the cost of mammograms is decreasing in alabama ; a screening study was available for $ 50 or less to 34 % of responding physicians . almost one half ( 48 % ) of the physician respondents believe that more than 50 % of their patients have had at least one mammogram . 
preventing colorectal cancer . knowledgeable patients should not die of colorectal cancer . increasing the intake of dietary fiber , decreasing fat consumption , and increasing the use of modern technology to detect adenomatous polyps and early cancer can greatly decrease the mortality associated with colorectal cancer . 
synchronous hodgkin 's disease and myelofibrosis terminating with granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia . our patient had stage iiiai hodgkin 's disease with synchronous myelofibrosis and myeloid metaplasia . a slowly progressive myeloproliferative disease developed over 9 1/2 years and terminated in a painful osteolytic bone disease , spinal extradural granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia . it is likely that this was a result of the myeloproliferative disease rather than a late complication from combination chemotherapy . our case demonstrates the importance of a curative approach to hodgkin 's disease even in the face of a coexistent disease with a long or unknown natural history . 
adenocarcinoma of the appendiceal stump . we have reported the case of a 58-year-old woman with nonspecific abdominal complaints in whom barium enema and subsequent colonoscopy showed a 3 cm lobulated adenocarcinoma within a villous adenoma arising from the appendiceal stump . because such appendiceal malignancies have no specific clinical signs , symptoms , or radiologic features , preoperative diagnosis is extremely difficult , and colonoscopy may be required to clarify radiologically demonstrated irregularities . 
trabecular or merkel 's cell carcinoma . two cases of trabecular cell carcinoma of the skin are presented . the clinical presentation and behavior , and the histologic findings , of the tumor are described . surgical excision of the primary lesion with regional lymph node dissection , if indicated , is the treatment of choice . distant metastasis is treated by local irradiation . 
adenocarcinoma of the colon occurring with intussusception in an adolescent . hydrostatic reduction of intussusception is definitive therapy in most infants with this abnormality . in the older child , adolescent , and adult , a polyp or tumor is often present . operative intervention should be considered earlier in the clinical course both to relieve the intussusception and to define the nature of the lead point . 
the predictive value of needle localization mammographically assisted biopsy of the breast . this study was done to review critically the experience at the university of california at san diego in needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast with regard to use and accuracy in identifying early carcinoma of the breast . ninety-seven patients underwent needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast between 1985 and 1987 . indications for this procedure included the presence of microcalcifications or a mass shown on mammographic examination , or both , in conjunction with physical examination which did not define a discrete abnormality in the area . mammographic , demographic , pathologic , hormone receptor data and staging information were recorded and processed on the microvax ii computer ( digital equipment corporation ) . twenty-four per cent of lesions with needle localization mammographic assisted biopsy proved to be malignant . sixteen lesions were diagnosed as an infiltrating ductal carcinoma and ten of these had an accompanying intraductal carcinoma . over-all , intraductal carcinoma was present in 16 of the 23 specimens diagnosed as malignant . at biopsy , the margins were clear in 17 of 23 , and vascular invasion was present in only one patient with an infiltrating lobular carcinoma . five were tumor in situ , 12 were stage 1 and five were stage 2 ( staging information was not available in one instance ) . hormone receptor data were available in 17 of 23 specimens . estrogen receptors were positive in 13 and progesterone receptors were positive in six . the smallest preinvasive malignant lesion was 4 millimeters , as seen on the mammogram , and the smallest free-standing invasive lesion was 8 millimeters . preinvasive lesions ( intraductal ) presented as microcalcifications in 80 per cent . invasive lesions presented as either a mass ( n = 9 ) or as a mass and microcalcifications ( n = 5 ) in 81 per cent . all five lesions presenting as both a mass and microcalcifications on mammogram proved to be malignant . multifocal lesions on mammographic examination which proved to be malignant were multifocal pathologically in only 50 per cent . needle localization mammographic biopsy is useful in detecting early carcinoma of the breast . biopsy should be done on lesions presenting on mammogram as both a mass and microcalcifications and not observed . focality of lesions on mammogram does not correlate with focality on biopsy and may be misleading as criteria for operative planning . 
focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver . twenty-four patients underwent biopsy or resection of the liver for focal nodular hyperplasia ( fnh ) at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center from 1978 to 1988 . twenty-two of the patients were women . the mean age was 35 years . a history of antecedent oral contraceptive or conjugated estrogen ( premarin ) use was obtained in 18 of 21 women . there were two men , aged 26 and 37 years ; neither gave a history of hormone use . most of the tumors were solitary ( 22 of 24 ) and located in the left lobe of the liver ( 17 of 22 ) . fifteen of the patients had a prior or simultaneous malignant lesion and six had other benign tumors . most of the tumors were resected with a wedge or subsegment of liver ( 13 of 24 ) . four patients underwent segmentectomy and five required lobectomy for removal of the tumors . two patients had an intraoperative biopsy only . the patients in whom the tumor was diagnosed preoperatively underwent computed tomography and arteriography routinely . scintigraphy of the liver with sulfur colloid was obtained in only three patients , despite its distinct potential for nonoperative diagnosis of fnh . 
time to recurrence varies inversely with thickness in clinical stage 1 cutaneous melanoma . the thickness of a tumor has been identified as the principal prognostic factor in cutaneous malignant melanoma . however , time to recurrence has not conclusively been related to thickness . a retrospective study of 216 patients with a primary cutaneous malignant melanoma that recurred was conducted to clarify this relationship and investigate possible independent relationships between age at diagnosis and sex of patients to time to recurrence . the results of analysis of linear regression revealed an inverse linear relationship between thickness and time to recurrence ( p less than 0.001 ) . patients more than 50 years of age at the time of diagnosis were shown to relapse sooner than those less than 50 years of age ( p = 0.014 ) . sex was not a significant factor in predicting time to recurrence ( p greater than 0.10 ) . these results suggest that thickness of tumor provides an indication of time to recurrence in those patients destined to recur and stress the need for long term surveillance in patients with a history of malignant melanoma because of the possibility of late relapse even with thin lesions . 
repeat hepatic resection for primary and metastatic carcinoma of the liver . during the last 15 years , 19 patients underwent repeated hepatic resections for malignant lesions of the liver . the first hepatic resection had been performed four to 40 months earlier for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma ( nine patients ) or hepatic metastases ( ten patients ) , eight of which were of colorectal origin . repeat resection was an extensive hepatectomy in six , a segmentectomy in six and a local excision in seven . in one patient , three wedge resections and , finally , hepatic transplantation were subsequently performed after an initial extended right lobectomy . the operative mortality rate was 5.2 per cent . the three year actuarial survival rate was 64 per cent after the second resection . 
mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap after resection of carcinoma of the esophagus involving the proximal part of the trachea . an operative procedure of mediastinal tracheostomy using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is presented . in this procedure , the terminal portion of the trachea penetrates through the center of a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap and the tracheal wall is completely wrapped with the muscular portion of the flap . between 1981 and 1988 , eight patients with carcinoma in the cervicothoracic segment of the esophagus underwent mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy and extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea through sternal manubrectomy , because of invasion into the trachea . in five of eight patients , a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap was used to construct a tracheal stoma . a skin flap only , or both a skin flap and a muscle flap , was used in the other three . in four of eight patients , tracheal necrosis occurred , and rupture of the brachiocephalic artery occurred in one patient when the tracheal stoma had been constructed using both a skin flap and a muscle flap . however , neither skin breakdown nor bleeding from the major vessels occurred when using the myocutaneous flap . therefore , it is concluded that the construction of the tracheal stoma using a pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is recommended for mediastinal tracheostomy after laryngoesophagectomy with extended resection of the proximal part of the trachea . 
the justification for surgical treatment of metastatic melanoma of the gastrointestinal tract . fifty-six patients with symptomatic metastatic melanoma of the gastrointestinal tract ( git ) treated surgically at the sydney melanoma unit between 1974 and 1989 were reviewed . the majority of these patients presented with abdominal pain or symptoms of anemia . the small intestine was the site of metastasis in more than 80 per cent . the mean over-all survival time was 11.7 months ( range of one to 60 months ) after surgical treatment of a first metastasis to the git and 3.6 months ( range of zero to 12 months ) postoperatively for a second git metastasis . forty-four of the patients reported complete relief of their symptoms postoperatively . the results suggest that an aggressive approach to symptomatic git metastases from malignant melanoma is justified both to relieve distressing symptoms and to prolong life . 
hepatic resection for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma with removal of portal vein tumor thrombi . in 13 of 398 patients who underwent hepatectomy , tumor thrombi of the remnant portal vein was concomitantly removed by the balloon catheter method in 8 , an open method under hepatic vascular exclusion in 1 , and resection of the occlusive portal segment followed by portal reconstruction in 4 . in 8 of these patients the liver was cirrhotic . the mode of hepatectomy consisted of bisegmetectomy or trisegmentectomy in 11 , segmentectomy in one , and partial resection in one patient . two patients died of portal thrombosis or hepatic failure in the hospital . the mean survival in four patients was 12 months . seven are still alive ( mean , 16 months ) . in the corresponding period , nine patients with occlusive tumor thrombi of the portal confluence were hospitalized without operation and survived up to 4 months ( mean , 64 days ) after detection of the tumoral occlusion . the causes of death of the nine patients were bleeding esophageal varices , rupture of the tumor , or hepatic failure . it was revealed that removal of tumor thrombi in the remnant portal vein contributes to ( 1 ) portal decompression , ( 2 ) feasibility of arterial embolization , and ( 3 ) increase in resectability of the main tumor . at present , this procedure might be regarded as an emergency procedure for the avoidance of the above lethal impendence , but it may open the door to an adjuvant therapy . 
decollateralization with silicone rubber sheeting for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma : a preliminary report . a new treatment method , interception of collaterals with a silicone rubber sheet , was applied to three patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in whom arterial chemoembolization was assessed as ineffective because of the developed collateral feeding arteries . this procedure was followed by arterial chemoembolization or intraportal infusion chemotherapy or both . follow-up celiac angiography confirmed that the long-term decollateralization was achieved by shielding the liver with silicone rubber sheeting . this technique resulted in partial responses without serious complications in all the patients including two who had no responses to chemoembolization before the procedure . the response durations were 5 , 21 , and 27 , months , respectively . one patient died of gastrointestinal bleeding 7 months after the decollateralization . the other two patients are still alive , and the survivals after the procedure are 28 and 30 months , respectively . this therapy is considered promising and may be worth choosing as an adjuvant treatment for advanced hepatic malignancies uncontrolled by arterial chemotherapy or chemoembolization . 
the role of gastric resection in the management of multicentric argyrophil gastric carcinoids . a patient with pernicious anemia , atrophic non-antral gastritis , hypergastrinemia , and widespread hyperplasia of enterochromaffin-like cells and manifest enterochromaffin-like cell carcinoma was followed up during 39 months , including 15 months after gastric resection . in this case normalization of gastrin levels did not prevent the development of multiple gastric carcinoids in the fundic mucosa , suggesting that factors other than gastrin are of importance in the pathogenesis . 
portal vein resection with a new antithrombogenic catheter . curative resection of pancreatic and hepatobiliary tumors is rarely possible because of local invasion , especially into the portal vein . we developed a new antithrombogenic catheter using a heparinized hydrophilic polymer to allow portal vein bypass during resection of tumors invading the portal vein . pancreatectomy or hepatectomy accompanied by portal vein resection was performed for pancreatic or hepatobiliary cancer , with an intraoperative shunt from the superior mesenteric vein to the femoral vein or from the superior mesenteric vein to the intrahepatic portal vein through the umbilical vein or the hepatic hilar portal vein . use of the shunt prevented stasis in the superior mesenteric vein and hepatic ischemia even during prolonged occlusion of the portal vein , and portal vein resection was performed in 81 patients with hepatobiliary and pancreatic disease with greater safety and ease . 
adoptive immunotherapy of human pancreatic cancer with lymphokine-activated killer cells and interleukin-2 in a nude mouse model . a pancreatic cancer cell line was grown in orthotopic and heterotopic positions in young swiss/nih nude mice , which were tested with adoptive immunotherapy . mice were injected with 1 x 10 ( 7 ) human cancer cells in the subcutaneous tissue and duodenal lobe of the pancreas . the mice were randomly divided into four groups : group ia ( lak + il-2 ) ( n = 25 ) received 2 x 10 ( 7 ) human lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells from normal donors by tail vein injection followed by 10,000 units of human recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) given intraperitoneally every 12 hours for 28 days ; group ib ( il-2 ) ( n = 27 ) was given the same dose of il-2 alone ; group ic ( rpmi-1640 ) ( n = 18 ) received a placebo consisting of 1 ml of rpmi-1640 intraperitoneally every 12 hours ; and group id ( lak ) ( n = 14 ) received 2 x 10 ( 7 ) lak cells but no il-2 . toxicity was significantly higher in group ib , with a mortality rate of 45.5 % ( 10/22 animals ) versus a 0 % mortality ( 0/25 ) in group ia . none of the group ia or ib animals died of pancreatic cancer during the experiment . the animals that did not receive il-2 died before 28 days in 14.2 % of group ic and in 16.7 % of group id . the area under the growth curve of subcutaneous tumors during the course of treatment and the pancreatic tumor weight at the end of treatment were compared in each group . subcutaneous tumors had a reduced rate of growth in group ia animals compared to all the other treatments . pancreatic tumor growth was slowed in group ia . the animals treated with il-2 alone ( group ib ) showed some slowing of tumor growth that was intermediate between group ia , group ic , and group id . a similar experiment was done with irradiated ( 375 rad ) mice . nine nude mice with tumors were treated with lak + il-2 ( group iia ) , eight received il-2 alone ( group iib ) , and seven received placebo ( group iic ) . the antitumor effect of il-2 alone was not present in the irradiated mice . a highly significant difference persisted between group iia and all other groups . there was no difference in the histologic characteristics of tumors in control mice and in mice with inhibited tumor growth treated with il-2 or il-2 and human lak cells . these results show that adoptive immunotherapy with human lak cells and human recombinant il-2 is effective against human pancreatic cancer growing in nude mice . this effect is independent from antitumor activity from il-2 administrations alone . 
radiation therapy of early ( stages i and ii-a ) seminoma of testis after initial orchiectomy . with initial orchiectomy and radiation therapy , the prognosis of the patients with early ( stages i and ii-a ) testicular seminoma is nearing almost 100 percent . thirty-two patients with stage i and 13 patients with stage ii-a seminoma of the testis were treated with initial orchiectomy . this was followed by estimation biochemical markers and radiologic investigations . all the patients with stage i disease received radiotherapy to the ipsilateral pelvic and para-aortic nodes . the patients with stage ii-a disease also received radiation therapy to the supradiaphragmatic regions . the disease-free survival in both groups of patients was found to be 100 percent . 
management of superficial g2 ( pta and pt1 ) bladder cancer . a total of 143 patients with superficial g2 ( pta , pt1 ) bladder cancer ( 48 g2pta ; 95 g2pt1 ) presenting between 1970 through 1987 were reviewed . of 48 patients with g2pta followed for up to eighteen years , g3 recurrence developed only in 1 ( 2.0 % ) , and invasive cancer ( greater than pt2 ) developed only in 2 ( 4.2 % ) . they both received radiotherapy and have responded completely . there have been no cancer-related deaths . in contrast , in the 95 patients in whom the basement membrane had been breached ( pt1 ) , higher grade tumor ( g3 ) developed in 11 ( 11.5 % ) , and 15 ( 16 % ) had recurrences with invasion of muscle ( greater than pt2 ) . among these there were 7 ( 7.3 % ) cancer-related deaths . 
radiologic staging of chest in testicular seminoma . we investigated the usefulness of chest x-ray ( cxr ) , conventional planar tomography ( tom ) , and computerized axial tomography ( cat ) in evaluating patients with stages i and ii testicular seminoma . all patients had a cxr , and 22 patients had either tom or cat as part of initial staging . no occult pulmonary or mediastinal nodal disease was found during initial staging , and none of the patients manifested recurrence of tumor in these sites as a first event . review of the literature corroborates our finding of a very small thoracic failure rate in early stage seminoma . routine use of cat or tom is not indicated in staging these patients . 
oncocytic renal tubular adenoma ( so-called oncocytoma ) in seventeen-year-old girl . renal tubular neoplasms ( adenomas or adenocarcinomas ) are rare in children or young adults . herein , we report an oncocytic renal tubular adenoma ( so-called oncocytoma ) that was found in a seventeen-year-old girl . preoperative evaluation included aspiration of this tumor , and we suggest that preoperative aspiration is an important procedure in the diagnosis and management of suspected renal tumors in children and young adults . 
intravesical condyloma acuminatum with progression to verrucous carcinoma . condyloma acuminatum is a common form of venereal disease . most patients with condylomata acuminata suffer from only the local cosmetic and irritative effects of the lesions . few patients have progression to aggressive , regionally distributed lesions that can be life-threatening . we describe a forty-three-year-old white woman who had a seventeen-year history of scleroderma with extravesical and intravesical condylomata acuminata . during two years of conservative management with transurethral excision , electrocoagulation , and intravesical chemotherapy , the disease progressed to involve the entire bladder and resulted in obstructive renal insufficiency that required anterior exenteration and urinary diversion . the natural history of the disease is described , and the relevant literature is reviewed . 
constitutional symptoms in patients with germ cell neoplasms . a patient with a mediastinal germ cell neoplasm evidenced fever , weight loss , pruritus , and painful adenopathy on ingestion of alcohol . retrospective review revealed that 9 percent of 104 patients with advanced germ cell neoplasm evidence constitutional symptoms at presentation . 
natural history of cardiac rhabdomyoma in infancy and childhood . although spontaneous regression of cardiac rhabdomyoma has been reported , prognosis is still considered to be poor and surgery continues to be indicated . the experience with rhabdomyoma diagnosed in live infants over a 20-year period was reviewed . diagnosis by angiography or echocardiography was accepted only if multiple tumors were present or if tuberous sclerosis was also diagnosed . nine patients ( 3 diagnosed prenatally and the remaining 6 at age less than 8 months ) were identified as having a total of 24 tumors . measurements in 2 planes demonstrated at least some evidence of regression in 24 patients ( 100 % ) , with 20 of 24 having complete resolution . one patient required delayed surgery for excision of a subaortic ridge that appeared at the site of a resolved tumor . our findings suggest that pediatric cardiac rhabdomyoma is most often a benign condition in which spontaneous regression is the rule . surgery is recommended only for patients with refractory dysrhythmias or severe hemodynamic compromise . 
diet and female sex hormone concentrations : an intervention study for the type of fat consumed . a possible mechanism by which dietary fat may influence the development of breast cancer is by influencing the concentration of female sex hormones . this study investigated the effect of alteration in the type of fat consumed on concentrations of female sex hormones in serum . female volunteers were randomly assigned to continue on their usual meat-eating diet , change to a vegetarian diet , or change to a diet that was predominantly vegetarian but where fish was consumed at least three times per week . change to the vegetarian or fish diet had little effect on diet total hormone concentrations ; however , the amount of estradiol was significantly decreased in the vegetarian group . when nutrient consumption was correlated with hormone concentrations , prolactin was directly associate with fat consumption , sex-hormone-binding globulin was inversely associated with fat consumption ( particularly cholesterol consumption ) , and the proportion of nonprotein-bound estradiol was directly associated with complex carbohydrate consumption . 
dietary fat and risk of breast cancer . the relationship between dietary fat and subsequent risk of breast cancer was studied in 3988 initially cancer-free finnish women aged 20-69 y. during a follow-up period of 20 y , 54 breast-cancer cases were diagnosed . risk of breast cancer was significantly inversely related to energy intake and nonsignificantly inversely related to absolute fat intake . a positive association between energy-adjusted total fat intake and occurrence of breast cancer was also observed . the relative risk in the highest tertile as compared with the lowest tertile was 1.7 ( 95 % confidence limits 0.6-4 .8 ) . the corresponding relative risks were 1.4 ( 0.5-3 .7 ) for saturated fatty acids , 2.7 ( 1.0-7 .4 ) for monounsaturated fatty acids , 1.2 ( 0.6-2 .8 ) for polyunsaturated fatty acids , and 2.2 ( 1.0-5 .0 ) for cholesterol intake . adjustment for different potential confounding factors did not alter the results . the present data suggest that breast cancer is associated inversely with energy intake and weakly positively with energy-adjusted fat intake . 
breast cancer and dietary and plasma concentrations of carotenoids and vitamin a. a case-control study of breast cancer was conducted in buffalo . participants completed a food frequency questionnaire and donated a fasting blood sample before definitive workup for breast masses . dietary and plasma concentrations of carotenoids and retinol for 83 women found to have breast cancer were compared with those of 113 women found to be free of breast cancer ( control subjects ) . there were no case-control differences in dietary estimates of vitamin a intake or in plasma alpha-carotene and lycopene . however , subjects with breast cancer had lower concentrations of plasma beta-carotene than did control subjects ( p = 0.02 ) . there was no overall association between plasma retinol and breast cancer but a positive relationship was observed between retinol and breast cancer in the subgroup with low beta-carotene values . these results suggest that low plasma beta-carotene is associated with increased risk of breast cancer . other studies will need to determine whether low carotene concentrations are a subtle effect of the disease or might be causally related to breast cancer . 
follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in men older than 50 years of age . a dna flow cytometric study the clinical behavior of follicular neoplasms of the thyroid in elderly men can be difficult to predict on histologic grounds alone . to assess the usefulness of dna flow cytometry in predicting the metastatic potential of these tumors , the authors studied 44 primary and metastatic follicular neoplasms of the thyroid by dna flow cytometry of paraffin-embedded tissue . the neoplasms were obtained from 44 men ranging in age from 50 to 79 years ( mean , 60 ) . there were 29 follicular adenomas , 11 primary follicular carcinomas ( neoplasms with capsular and/or vascular invasion ) , and 4 metastatic follicular carcinomas . follow-up information was available on 40 of the 44 patients . the mean follow-up was 114 months . twenty-five of the 29 follicular adenomas had a diploid dna content , 2 ( 7 % ) were tetraploid , and the dna histograms on 2 were not interpretable . all patients with follicular adenomas had no evidence of disease ( ned ) at last follow-up . eight of the 11 primary follicular carcinomas were diploid . six of these patients had ned , one died with carcinoma at 82 months , and no follow-up was available on one . three ( 27 % ) of the primary follicular carcinomas were aneuploid or tetraploid . two of these patients had ned , and the third died with carcinoma 84 months after diagnosis . two of the four metastatic follicular carcinomas were diploid and two ( 50 % ) were aneuploid or tetraploid . one of the two patients with diploid metastatic follicular carcinomas died with carcinoma , as did one of the two patients with aneuploid metastatic follicular carcinomas . these results suggest the following : ( 1 ) follicular carcinomas are more likely to be aneuploid or tetraploid than are follicular adenomas ; ( 2 ) follicular neoplasms without capsular or vascular invasion may include a small number of aneuploid or tetraploid tumors ; and ( 3 ) dna ploidy does not add to the prognostic value of histologic studies alone . 
potential value of hormone receptor assay in carcinoma in situ of breast . the estrogen receptor ( er ) expression of invasive breast cancer has been extensively studied both biochemically and with specific monoclonal antibodies against er . relatively few studies have attempted to characterize er pattern in breast carcinoma in situ ( cis ) and in other premalignant lesions . in the current study , the authors investigated the pattern of er expression in 62 cases of breast cis , 30 of which had a component of invasive cancer , and 36 cases of atypical hyperplasia . paraffin sections of formalin-fixed breast tissue underwent enzyme pretreatment to expose nuclear antigenic sites as previously described . breast tissues then underwent estrogen immunocytochemical assay using specific monoclonal antibodies ( abbott laboratory , chicago , il ) . the cases were evaluated for heterogeneity , intensity of staining , and percentage of er-positive cells . an attempt was made to study the relation between the pattern of er expression , nuclear pleomorphism , and type of cis . the results of er immunocytochemical assay showed positive nuclear staining for er in 75 % of the cis , 73 % of cis with invasive cancer , and 100 % of atypical hyperplasias . er expression in cis agreed with that in the invasive carcinoma in 29 of 30 cases . this study also suggests that comedocarcinoma has a higher incidence of negative er expression than the other types of cis , particularly when it is associated with significant nuclear pleomorphism . there was no significant difference in er tumor heterogeneity between premalignant and malignant lesions . 
survey of histologic specimens of human cancer for human papillomavirus types 6/11/16 / 18 by filter in situ hybridization . histologic specimens ( 317 ) of genital and nongenital cancers and normal tissue were analyzed for the presence of the dna of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) 6 , 11 , 16 , and 18 by filter in situ hybridization performed on paraffin-embedded , formalin-fixed tissue ( histofish ) . hpv dna was found in 73 of 172 ( 42 % ) anogenital lesions and 17 of 116 ( 15 % ) nonanogenital carcinomas . no hpv dna was found in normal mouse skin ( five samples ) , human autopsy liver ( two samples ) , or kidney ( eight samples ) , or in carcinomas of the breast ( three samples ) , bladder ( five samples ) , or colon ( nine samples ) . of the nongenital tumors , hpv dna was found in the carcinomas of the lung ( 2 of 5 ) , anus ( 7 of 18 ) , esophagus ( 9 of 39 ) , buccal cavity ( 1 of 5 ) , and larynx ( 5 of 50 ) . hpv dna was also detected in 2 of 11 histologically normal specimens of the cervix and 1 of 3 human skin lesions . the detection of hpv dna in carcinomas of the lung , larynx , and esophagus as well as in the anogenital region confirms recent suggestions that hpv types 6 , 11 , 16 , and 18 have a wider association with different types of cancer than previously believed . the study also shows that histofish is a useful method for detecting hpv-dna in histologic specimens . 
improved flow cytometric determination of proliferative activity ( s-phase fraction ) from paraffin-embedded tissue . recent studies suggest that proliferative activity ( s-phase fraction [ spf ] ) may have greater prognostic significance than total nuclear dna content ; however , relatively few studies have examined spf from paraffin-embedded tissue because of significant contamination of histograms with debris . in this study , cell cycle analysis was performed on 124 matched tissue specimens . fresh tissue was divided into two equal portions ; one portion was frozen , whereas the other portion was processed and embedded in paraffin . s-phase could be determined for both frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue in 81 cases . correlation between spf from frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue was demonstrated ( r = 0.80 ) when debris was subtracted from histograms with the use of two new subtraction algorithms referred to as multicut and singlecut . unlike other debris-subtraction algorithms , the quantity and distribution of debris calculated by these algorithms are dependent on the magnitude and position of histogram peaks . a lesser degree of correlation was demonstrated with the use of a standard exponential debris subtraction algorithm ( r = 0.67 ) . correlation of spf for aneuploid cases was greater when spf was calculated as a percentage of the aneuploid cell population rather than as a percentage of the entire cell population . this was attributed to the observation that the proportion of aneuploid cells from paraffin-embedded tissue was less than that from frozen tissue . the results of this study indicate that spf can be calculated from paraffin-embedded tissue with values comparable to those obtained from frozen tissue . the ability to calculate spf reliably from paraffin-embedded tissue should allow additional evaluation of this parameter as a prognostic indicator . 
demonstration of lipiodol in paraffin sections using a modified silver impregnation technique . to demonstrate postangiographic lipiodol ( lip ) in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) in paraffin sections , direct impregnation of formalin-fixed tissue blocks with silver nitrate ( agno3 ) was followed by routine processing . lip appeared as black globules in the sinusoids . ninety-four tissue blocks from 13 postangiographic lip hccs and 69 from 8 non-lip hccs and 4 fatty livers were studied . seventy-two of 73 negative controls and all positive blocks as seen on soft tissue radiographs ( strs ) were correctly coded ( specificity 98.6 % , sensitivity 100 % ) . twenty-six of the 44 lip-negative areas on strs from lip cases contained scanty globules of less than 10 microns in diameter . fatty change gave no positive readings . thus , modified agno3 impregnation is a simple , accurate means of detecting lip in high-quality paraffin sections suitable for tumor diagnosis and , if applied to postangiographic lip , ultrasonographically guided liver biopsy , can verify that a biopsy has reached a suspected tumor focus . 
immunophenotypic aberrancy in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia . some recent reports indicate a high frequency of immunophenotypic aberrancy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . to investigate this issue with regard to adult all , the authors reviewed the immunophenotyping data from 39 cases analyzed in their clinical laboratory . flow cytometric analysis of peripheral blood and/or bone marrow was performed with the use of a panel of 21 b-cell , t-cell , and myeloid monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) . the surface antigen profiles of the leukemic cells were compared with those of normal bone marrow and thymic counterparts , as defined by current models . twenty-six cases were b-precursor all , 8 were t-all , and 3 were b-all ( burkitt 's leukemia ) . only two cases coexpressed lymphoid and myeloid antigens . in contrast , intralineage aberrancy was quite common . immunophenotypes from 13 of 26 b-precursor all cases deviated from normal b-lineage marrow cells as defined by a recent classification . the t-all cases were also immunophenotypically heterogeneous . this high incidence of aberrant antigen expression in adult all suggests that leukemogenesis also involves aberrant differentiation rather than purely a process of maturational arrest . 
microstaging of squamous cell carcinomas . the clinical classification of squamous cell carcinoma , which was established primarily by the international union against cancer ( uicc ) , does not permit optimal estimation of expected metastasis . the authors ' results indicate that metastasis can be more accurately estimated on the basis of invasion depth , histopathologic grading , and especially tumor thickness . one essential advantage of these criteria is that they can be established by a histopathologist . it is interesting to note that in the authors ' collective no carcinoma less than 2 mm thick metastasized , that is , a relatively high percentage of carcinomas ( 48 % ) can be graded as no-risk carcinomas . the risk of metastasis for undifferentiated carcinomas greater than 6 mm thick that have infiltrated the musculature , the perichondrium , or the periosteum , however , is quite high . tumors between 2 and 6 mm thick with moderate differentiation and a depth of invasion that does not extend beyond the subcutis can be classified as low-risk carcinomas . 
mucinous adenocarcinoma of the prostate with endobronchial metastasis . endobronchial metastases can manifest clinical symptoms and x-ray findings mimicking a centrally located bronchogenic carcinoma . the authors recently encountered a case of endobronchial metastasis from a mucinous adenocarcinoma of the prostate that was originally diagnosed as a primary bronchogenic carcinoma . the correct diagnosis was made on the basis of the morphologic similarities between the primary prostatic lesion and the lung lesion and was corroborated by immunohistochemical analyses . 
malignant rhabdoid tumor of the liver . a distinct clinicopathologic entity . a malignant rhabdoid tumor occurring as a primary hepatic neoplasm in a six-month-old white infant is reported . it was treated by an attempt at total resection involving right hepatic lobectomy and by chemotherapy with cis-platinum , vp-16 , and adriamycin . despite this , recurrence of the tumor resulted in the girl 's death within three months . the neoplasm showed typical light microscopic features of malignant rhabdoid tumor as well as filamentous cytoplasmic inclusions by electron microscopic examination and staining for both cytokeratin and vimentin by immunohistochemistry . the classic clinicopathologic features of this tumor support the concept that malignant rhabdoid tumors similar to those of the kidney may occur in extrarenal sites . 
primary malignant melanoma of the lower respiratory tract . report of a case and literature review . the authors report a case of primary bronchial malignant melanoma , occurring in a 34-year-old woman presenting with persistent cough . at bronchoscopic examination , a polypoid mass was found to occlude the left mainstem bronchus . biopsies showed a malignant epithelioid tumor resembling an atypical carcinoid . histochemistry , electron microscopic study , and immunohistochemistry confirmed the diagnosis of melanoma . physical examination and additional clinical history to exclude other possible primary sites were negative . the patient underwent thoracotomy with left pneumonectomy . nineteen months after resection she was found to have a histologically similar tumor involving her left adrenal gland . review of the literature shows that melanoma of the lower respiratory tract has been reported only in adults and has a tendency to present as a central polypoid growth that may be responsive to surgical resection . 
clinicopathologic features and long-term results of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer . during a 10-yr-period , 24 cases of alpha-fetoprotein-producing gastric cancer were experienced in our department . the mean age was 62.5 yr , and the sex ratio of males to females was 3:1 . borrmann ii and iii types of gastric cancer were predominant ( 83.3 % ) . the prognosis was dismal . most of the patients , including three radically operated cases of early gastric cancer , died from liver metastasis within 2 yr . the 1 - , 3 - , and 6-yr survival rates were 37.5 % , 8.3 % , and 8.3 % , respectively , for all cases and 75.0 % , 25.0 % , and 25.0 % for radically operated cases . the incidences of synchronous and metachronous liver metastasis were 31.8 % and 40.9 % , significantly higher than the incidences of afp-negative gastric cancer ( p less than 0.91 ) . despite radical gastrectomy , metachronous liver metastasis occurred in 75.0 % of the cases . two radical hepatic resections , including extended right lobectomy , were performed in one patient with early gastric cancer who had repeated metachronous liver metastasis . however , the tumor recurred immediately . apparently , radical gastrectomy or hepatic resection alone may not suffice for this particular type of cancer . the methods of treatment and follow-up considered should be different from that for other types of gastric cancer . 
adenocarcinoma arising in barrett 's esophagus after total gastrectomy a 64-yr-old japanese male who underwent a partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer at the age of 21 , a total resection of the remnant stomach for a stomal ulcer at age 25 , and in whom barrett 's esophagus was diagnosed at age 47 , was found to have a tumor at the distal esophagus and was operated on by thoracic esophagectomy . the tumor was a well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma invading down to the muscularis propria . the entire esophageal mucosa in the resected specimen was lined by columnar epithelium . this tumor was thought to derive from the barrett 's esophageal epithelium . 
granular cell tumor of the esophagus : endoscopic ultrasonographic demonstration and endoscopic removal . a 35-yr-old japanese man with a granular cell tumor of the esophagus that was removed by endoscopic polypectomy is presented . radiography and endoscopy showed a 20 x 12 mm sessile protrusion in the distal esophagus . endoscopic ultrasonography demonstrated the hypoechoic mass in the submucosa without continuity to the muscularis propria . the lesion was successfully treated by endoscopic polypectomy without complications . the cross-sections of the resected specimen were quite in agreement with the ultrasonographic findings . endoscopic ultrasonography is valuable to assess the exact location and extent of the tumor , and to determine the indication for endoscopic polypectomy . 
diffuse hemangiomatosis of the spleen : splenic hemangiomatosis presenting with giant splenomegaly , anemia , and thrombocytopenia . in an elderly patient with oligosymptomatic giant splenomegaly , clinical and laboratory data were nondiagnostic , while nonhomogeneous splenic enlargement was the only finding detected by imaging procedures . splenectomy was performed and diffuse hemangiomatosis of predominantly capillary-type found . the failure of imaging techniques to even hint at the nature of the underlying disorder is comprehensible in view of the organ being essentially replaced in toto by the abnormal vascular channels . diffuse splenic hemangiomatosis , a rare condition , may cause hypersplenism , and its diagnosis may be elusive because of misleading patterns on imaging . 
a chance to cut is a chance to cure ? fifty-seven patients underwent local excision of an invasive distal rectal cancer as an initial operative procedure with curative intent . five-year survival was 82.5 % , and the rectal cancer specific mortality rate was only 10.5 % . the level of wall invasion , vascular permeation , tumor ulceration , mobility , and differentiation were the criteria studied for prognosis . poor prognostic factors included mucinous cell differentiation and full thickness invasion , and in these cases , abdominoperineal resection was recommended . none of the 27 patients without these adverse prognostic factors died from rectal cancer . the other factors did not appear to influence the outcome , and local excision of distal rectal cancer would be the treatment of choice in such selected patients . 
ten-year prospective study on the development of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients . a prospective study was undertaken to investigate the development of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients . three renal cell carcinomas were detected among 96 hemodialysis patients in 1979 , and screening by computed tomographic ( ct ) scan was continued yearly until 1989 . during this 10-year period , one renal cell carcinoma was found in the second year and another in the ninth year . autopsy performed on seven of 19 patients who died showed one case of small clear cell carcinoma accompanying acquired cystic disease . in 33 males , kidneys were found to have enlarged 2.7 + / - 1.7 times over the 10-year follow-up due to acquired cysts , while no change in kidney volume was noted in 24 females . native kidneys in nine of 12 patients who maintained functioning grafts were reduced in size . the patient with the largest kidney enlargement ( 11.5 times ) died from retroperitoneal bleeding in 1989 . these prospective study results suggest that both the incidence and prevalence of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients is high . furthermore , major complications of acquired renal cystic disease seem to occur predominantly in males . 
the mutation for medullary thyroid carcinoma with parathyroid tumors ( mtc with pts ) is closely linked to the centromeric region of chromosome 10 . two new morphs ( f and g ) detected by the centromeric alpha satellite probe p alpha 10rp8 and d10z1 in hinfi digests are linked to the psti polymorphisms of d10z1 , confirming their chromosome 10 location . the f and g morphs were in strong linkage disequilibrium with each other but were in weak linkage disequilibrium with the a and b morphs defined in psti digests . data for haplotypes formed by using the a and f morphs improved the lod score for linkage between the disease locus for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a ( men2a ) and d10z1 ( z = 14.06 at theta = 0 ) in the six large families studied by wu et al . furthermore , the locus that codes for a distinct phenotype , medullary thyroid carcinoma ( mtc ) with parathyroid tumors ( pts ) and no pheochromocytomas ( pheos ) ( referred to as mtc with pts ) , in one of the families was closely linked to two markers , d10z1 and rbp3 , with lodscores of 2.86 and 3.54 , respectively , at theta = 0 . a possible allelic association was noted between disease phenotypes and centromeric haplotypes . the phenotype mtc and pheos with and without pts was associated with the same relatively common centromeric haplotype ( a + b-f-g - ) in the four families in which all four morphs could be determined , while the phenotype mtc with pts was associated with the rare centromeric haplotype ( a-b-f-g + ) in one family . 
a new dna marker ( d10s94 ) very tightly linked to the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a ( men2a ) locus . combined somatic cell hybrid and linkage studies between d10s94 and five pericentromeric loci ( fnrb , d10z1 , men2a , rbp3 , and d10s15 ) have localized the new dna sequence pcl1/a1s -6 - c23 at d10s94 to 10q11 .2 . no recombinants were observed between d10s94 and d10z1 or men2a . d10s94 maps in proximal 10q11 .2 very near to men2a . there are three possible orders for the six loci that we investigated from the centromeric region of chromosome 10 . at present the genetic data do not allow us to order men2a with respect to d10z1 and d10s94 . the three possible orders are fnrb-d10z1-d10s94-men2a-rbp3-d10s15 , fnrb-d10z1-men2a-d10s94-rbp3-d10s15 , and fnrb-men2a-d10z1-d10s94-rbp3-d10s15 . in view of the fact that no recombinants between d10s94 and men2a or between d10s94 and d10z1 were observed , the combined haplotypes formed from rflps and d10z1 and d10s94 will increase the informativeness and accuracy of genotype prediction for at-risk members of the families having the men 2a syndrome , particularly when the affected parent is female . the localization of d10s94 with respect to men2a will prove valuable in experiments directed toward cloning the men2a locus . 
the importance of cytogenetic studies in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia . purpose : the prognostic importance of pretreatment bone marrow cytogenetic studies in adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia treated at a single institution , with an identical treatment program , is described . patients and methods : a total of 105 patients with a documented morphologic diagnosis of acute lymphocytic leukemia were reviewed for the purpose of this analysis . all patients had an extensive workup at presentation , and cytogenetic analysis was performed in 103 patients , using the giemsa banding technique with trypsin pretreatment on 24-hour cultured cells . results : the specific cytogenetic classification in the 103 patients who had the karyotypic analysis was as follows : diploid 27 % ; philadelphia chromosome-positive 13 % ; hyperdiploid 12 % ; b-cell karyotype 6 % ; 6q - and 14q + abnormalities 4 % ; pseudodiploid 8 % ; hypodiploid 2 % ; and insufficient metaphases 28 % . b-cell , 6q - or 14q + , and philadelphia chromosome-positive karyotypes tended to correlate with other known negative prognostic factors . patients with diploid , hyperdiploid , pseudodiploid , and hypodiploid karyotypes or with insufficient metaphases could be combined into one group with a favorable prognosis . in this group , the remission rate with induction chemotherapy was 89 % , the median complete remission duration was 26 months , and the median survival was 25 months , with a 3-year survival rate of 45 % . patients with philadelphia chromosome-positive , b-cell , and 6q - or 14q + abnormalities collectively had an unfavorable prognosis . their response rate to induction chemotherapy was 65 % , the median response duration was 7 months , and the median survival was 8 months , with a 3-year survival rate of less than 10 % . conclusion : we conclude that the pretreatment bone marrow karyotype is an important part of the evaluation of adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia and provides significant prognostic information . 
endometrioma of the liver . hepatic endometriosis is extremely rare . we describe a patient sent to us with epigastric pain as the only symptom and who was found to have associated endometrioma of the liver and left ovary . we suggest a gynecologic evaluation before surgery for hepatic cyst of unknown cause . 
hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury . hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury is an extremely rare entity , and evidence by only five cases that have been reported in the medical literature to date . we report five additional cases encountered in two medical centers . two of these were ruptured corpus luteum cysts , one was a laceration of the round ligament , another was a laceration of an ovary , and the fifth was rupture of a serous cystadenoma . this diagnosis should be considered in patients with hemoperitoneum after coitus . 
management of selected cystic adnexal masses in postmenopausal women by operative laparoscopy : a pilot study . twenty-five postmenopausal patients were predicted to have benign masses by screening criteria that included ultrasonographic findings of a cystic adnexal mass less than 10 cm with distinct borders and no evidence of irregular solid parts , thick septa , ascites , or matted bowel , and a normal serum ca 125 value ( less than 35 u/ml ) . all 25 masses were accurately predicted to be benign . the size of the cysts on ultrasonography ranged from 3 to 9 cm with a mean of 5 cm . twenty-two patients ( 88 % ) were successfully managed by operative laparoscopy and adnexectomy . mean operative time was 70 minutes and mean postoperative hospital stay was 12 hours . mean time of return to normal activity was 5 days . three patients required laparotomy . we conclude that removal of these cystic adnexal masses by operative laparoscopy is an acceptable alternative in carefully selected postmenopausal women . 
ultrasonographic assessment of placental abnormalities . current ultrasonographic techniques offer a novel approach for the identification of a wide variety of placental abnormalities usually described postnatally by the pathologist . placental vascular lesions , placental tumors , and abnormal placentation are potentially associated with perinatal complications and their diagnosis in utero may influence the pregnancy management . an ultrasonographic classification of placental lesions that is based on their location , size , echogenicity , and number is proposed . repeated ultrasonographic examination , together with biologic investigations , is important for the prenatal differential diagnosis of most these lesions and for full understanding of their pathophysiologic characteristics and significance . 
preferential mitogenic activity for myoblast-like cells can be extracted from uterine leiomyoma tissues . the presence of mitogen ( s ) in leiomyoma extracts stimulating cells with the fibroblast , myoblast , and osteoblast phenotype was documented . mitogenic activity in leiomyoma extracts was acid stable and sensitive to tryptic digestion . reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography successfully separated mitogen ( s ) with preferential activity for myoblast cells from mitogens with a broad type of cell specificity and from inhibitors . this leiomyoma-derived preferential activity for myoblasts was absent in identically treated myometrial and endometrial extracts . this suggests that leiomyoma-derived substances with preferential growth factor activity for myoblast-like cells may play a role in the pathophysiologic characteristics of uterine leiomyomas . 
practical aspects of pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone administration . pulsatile administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone represents a major advance in the treatment of anovulation in women who fail to ovulate with clomiphene citrate and is an alternative for many women who currently receive human menopausal gonadotropin . four issues must be addressed before administering pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone : ( 1 ) safety , ( 2 ) efficacy , ( 3 ) convenience , and ( 4 ) cost . each of these issues will be affected by the three major decisions a physician makes with gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy : ( 1 ) patient selection , ( 2 ) route of administration , and ( 3 ) dose of gonadotropin-releasing hormone . the ideal candidate for gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a patient with an absence of endogenous pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone , as seen in hypothalamic amenorrhea . although women with polycystic ovarian disease can be treated with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone , a decreased ovulation rate should be expected . the route of administration , intravenous or subcutaneous , and the degree of monitoring can be tailored by the physician to fit each patient 's needs . pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone therapy is a safe , effective , convenient , and economical alternative to human menopausal gonadotropin for ovulation induction in women resistant to clomiphene . 
ocular adnexal kaposi 's sarcoma in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we examined histopathologically 18 ocular adnexal kaposi 's sarcoma lesions related to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . these lesions were classified into three types . type i consisted of thin , dilated vascular channels lined by flat endothelial cells with lumen-containing erythrocytes . type ii featured plump , fusiform , endothelial cells , often with a hyperchromatic nucleus and foci of immature spindle cells and occasional slit vessels . type iii was characterized by large aggregates of densely packed spindle cells with hyperchromatic nuclei , occasional mitotic figures , and abundant slit spaces often containing erythrocytes in between . clinically , type i and type ii tumors were patchy and flat ( less than 3 mm in height ) and of less than four months ' duration . type iii tumors were nodular and elevated ( greater than 3 mm in height ) . we describe the clinical and histopathologic types of kaposi 's sarcoma that may help in diagnosis . 
traumatic enucleation for posterior uveal melanoma . two features of eyes enucleated for posterior uveal melanoma that may serve as indicators for traumatic enucleation and relate to dissemination of tumor cells at the time of enucleation are myelin artifact of the optic nerve head and acute hemorrhage within the tumor . myelin artifact occurs when crushed optic nerve tissue is squeezed into the eye at the time of enucleation . intralesional hemorrhage may occur during surgery and may be correlated with fluctuations in intraocular pressure . we reviewed 519 cases of posterior uveal melanoma treated by enucleation between 1950 and 1970 . without knowledge of the follow-up data , we examined histologic sections for myelin artifact , intralesional hemorrhage , subretinal hemorrhage , callender cell type , size of tumor , necrosis , and scleral or orbital invasion . neither myelin artifact nor intralesional hemorrhage were independent prognostic risk factors . these findings do not support or refute the hypothesis that excessive trauma during enucleation results in a worse prognosis . 
a randomized study of methanol-extraction residue of bacille calmette-guerin as postsurgical adjuvant therapy of uveal melanoma . a randomized controlled clinical trial of methanol-extracted residue of bacille calmette-guerin adjuvant treatment of posterior uveal melanoma was undertaken . of 113 patients , 34 patients received adjuvant immunotherapy and 79 patients received no treatment . no difference in survival was observed between the adjuvant-treated group and the control group of patients . this study found that the size of the tumor was a highly significant risk factor for death caused by metastasis of uveal melanomas . the standard deviation of the nucleolar area of the neoplastic cells was a significant risk factor , even though patients with tumors composed of callender 's spindle-type cells were not included in the study . 
the value of nucleolar organizer regions in uveal melanoma . the collaborative ocular melanoma study group . silver staining of nucleolar organizer regions is an objective method for evaluating the malignancy of a variety of tumors . we studied 126 ciliochoroidal melanomas , three coincidental nevi that occurred in eyes with melanomas , and one magnocellular nevus collected from the collaborative ocular melanoma study to determine the effectiveness of the silver-stained nucleolar organizer region technique in assessing the malignant potential of these tumors . malignant lesions demonstrated higher mean silver-stained nucleolar organizer region counts ( 4.347 ) than benign nevi ( 1.855 ) ( p less than or equal to .0001 ) . among malignant melanomas , mixed-cell melanomas had slightly higher counts than spindle-cell melanomas ( p less than or equal to .0001 ) , but this difference was not important clinically . results were also compared to other histopathologic variables , which disclosed correlation of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions with mitoses and tumor size . comparison with computerized cytomorphometric analyses of prognosis also disclosed significant correlation . this technique may prove to be a useful adjunct in the assessment of malignancy and treatment response of uveal melanomas . 
immunohistologic properties of benign and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland . we studied the immunohistopathologic features of normal lacrimal gland , benign mixed tumor , and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland . primary antisera were to keratin , muscle-specific actin , vimentin , and glial fibrillary acid protein . keratin stained in occasional myoepithelial cells in normal gland , ductal epithelium in normal gland and the tumors , and occasional stromal epithelioid cells in the tumors . muscle-specific actin stained in myoepithelium and vascular smooth muscle in normal gland and the tumors , and occasional spindle-shaped and clusters of stromal cells in the tumors . vimentin staining was nonspecific . glial fibrillary acid protein stained in occasional myoepithelial cells in normal gland and polyhedral stromal cells in benign mixed tumor . our findings indicate that ductal epithelium develops into the epithelial component , and some cells in the stroma and myoepithelium develop into some cells in the stroma of benign and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland . 
a clinicopathologic study of the eyes in familial adenomatous polyposis with extracolonic manifestations ( gardner 's syndrome ) . the eyes of a 51-year-old woman with familial adenomatous polyposis and extracolonic manifestations ( gardner 's syndrome ) were obtained postmortem and studied by light microscopy and by transmission and scanning electron microscopy . we found a generalized abnormality in melanogenesis of the retinal pigment epithelium and at least three types of pigmented lesions . the histologic findings in one type of lesion were consistent with congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium or benign pigmented nevus of the retinal pigment epithelium . the other two types of lesion were most consistent with hamartomatous malformations of the retinal pigment epithelium featuring cellular hypertrophy , hyperplasia , and rarely retinal invasion and formation of a minute mushroom-shaped tumor . these histopathologic findings indicate a generalized effect of the familial adenomatous polyposis gene on the retinal pigment epithelium . this oncogene , which is responsible for tumor formation in the gastrointestinal tract , soft tissues , bone , and other locations in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis , also leads to a generalized defect in melanogenesis and focal lesions of the retinal pigment epithelium . 
increase of beta 1-6-branched oligosaccharides in human esophageal carcinomas invasive against surrounding tissue in vivo and in vitro . the - glcnac beta 1-6man - ( beta 1-6 ) branched n-glycosidic oligosaccharides expressed on tumor cells have been found to contribute to malignant and metastatic potential in experimental tumor models . phaseolus vulgaris leukoagglutinin ( l-pha ) requires the beta 1-6-linked lactosamine antenna for high-affinity binding and was used histochemically to characterize the distribution of these sugar structures in human esophageal squamous cell carcinomas from 42 patients . leukoagglutinin-reactive carcinoma cells in the invasive tumors were distributed predominantly on the outer surface of the tumor adjacent to the surrounding tissue . furthermore , when te 1 cells , a human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma line , were cultured in a collagen gel matrix to obtain colonies in a three-dimensional form , these colonies exhibited high affinity for l-pha binding only in the outer cell layer facing the collagen matrix , unrelated to the cell growth cycle . these findings suggest that the increase in beta 1-6-branched oligosaccharides in esophageal carcinomas is an important trait of the tumor in the invasion into the surrounding tissue . 
vimentin is preferentially expressed in high-grade ductal and medullary , but not in lobular breast carcinomas . two hundred sixty-two invasive breast carcinomas dating from 1979 to 1984 were tested for vimentin and keratin on formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded sections . none of 26 lobular carcinomas expressed vimentin . vimentin expression in 10 % or more of tumor cells was found in 78 % of medullary ( 14 of 18 ) , in 16 % of ductal not otherwise specified ( nos ) ( 35 of 214 ) , and in two of four mucinous carcinomas . a further seven tumors showed vimentin expression in less than 1 % to 10 % of the cells . vimentin was expressed in tumor cells of 30 % ( 28 of 93 ) of grade iii invasive ductal nos carcinomas versus 7 % ( 7 of 105 ) of grade ii and 0 % of grade i carcinomas ( 0 of 10 ) . vimentin was found to be preferentially expressed in tumors growing in broad , often anastomosing bands or sheets with extensive necrosis , scanty supportive stroma , high nuclear grade , and numerous mitoses . the authors conclude that vimentin is not detected in lobular carcinomas , but is preferentially expressed in medullary and in high-grade ductal nos breast carcinomas . 
inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth in the brain . suppression of endothelial cell turnover by penicillamine and the depletion of copper , an angiogenic cofactor . microvascular proliferation , a hallmark of malignant brain tumors , represents an attractive target of anticancer research , especially because of the quiescent nonproliferative endothelium of the normal brain . cerebral neoplasms sequester copper , a trace metal that modulates angiogenesis . using a rabbit brain tumor model , normocupremic animals developed large vascularized vx2 carcinomas . by contrast , small , circumscribed , relatively avascular tumors were found in the brains of rabbits copper-depleted by diet and penicillamine treatment ( cdpt ) . the cdpt rabbits showed a significant decrease in serum copper , copper staining of tumor cell nuclei , microvascular density , the tumor volume , endothelial cell turnover , and an increase in the vascular permeability ( breakdown of the blood-brain barrier ) , as well as peritumoral brain edema . in non-tumor-bearing animals , cdpt did not alter the vascular permeability or the brain water content . cdpt also inhibited the intracerebral growth of the 9l gliosarcoma in f-344 rats , with a similar increase of the peritumoral vascular permeability and the brain water content . cdpt failed to inhibit tumor growth and the vascularization of the vx2 carcinoma in the thigh muscle or the metastases to the lung , findings that may reflect regional differences in the responsiveness of the endothelium , the distribution of copper , or the activity of cuproenzymes . metabolic and pharmacologic withdrawal of copper suppresses intracerebral tumor angiogenesis ; angiosuppression is a novel biologic response modifier for the in situ control of tumor growth in the brain . 
coexpression patterns of vimentin and glial filament protein with cytokeratins in the normal , hyperplastic , and neoplastic breast . the authors studied by immunohistochemistry the intermediate filament ( if ) protein profile of 66 frozen samples of breast tissue , including normal parenchyma , all variants of fibrocystic disease ( fcd ) , fibroadenomas , cystosarcoma phylloides , and ductal and lobular carcinomas . monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) to cytokeratins included mab ka 1 , which binds to polypeptide 5 in a complex with polypeptide 14 and recognizes preferentially myoepithelial cells ; mab ka4 , which binds to polypeptides 14 , 15 , 16 and 19 ; individual mabs to polypeptides 7 , 13 , and 16 , 17 , 18 , and 19 , and the mab mixture ae1/ae3 . the authors also applied three mabs to vimentin ( vim ) , and three mabs to glial filament protein ( gfp ) . selected samples were studied by double-label immunofluorescence microscopy and by staining sequential sections with some of the said mabs , an mab to alpha-smooth muscle actin , and well-characterized polyclonal antibodies for the possible coexpression of diverse types of cytoskeletal proteins . gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis also were performed . all samples reacted for cytokeratins with mabs ae1/ae3 , although the reaction did not involve all cells . monoclonal antibody ka4 stained preferentially the luminal-secretory cells in the normal breast and in fcd , whereas it stained the vast majority of cells in all carcinomas . monoclonal antibody ka1 stained preferentially the basal-myoepithelial cells of the normal breast and fcd while staining tumor cell subpopulations in 4 of 31 carcinomas . vimentin-positive cells were found in 8 of 12 normal breasts and in 12 of 20 fcd ; in most cases , vim-reactive cells appeared to be myoepithelial , but occasional luminal cells were also stained . variable subpopulations of vim-positive cells were noted in 9 of 20 ductal and in 1 of 7 lobular carcinomas . glial filament protein-reactive cells were found in normal breast lobules and ducts and in 15 of 20 cases of fcd ; with rare exceptions , gfp-reactivity was restricted to basally located , myoepithelial-appearing cells . occasional gfp-reactive cells were found in 3 of 31 carcinomas . evaluation of sequential sections and double-label immunofluorescence microscopy showed the coexpression of certain cytokeratins ( possibly including polypeptides 14 and 17 ) with vimentin and alpha-smooth muscle actin together with gfp in some myoepithelial cells . the presence of gfp in myoepithelial cells was confirmed by gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting . our results indicate that coexpression of cytokeratin with vimentin and/or gfp is comparatively frequent in normal basal-myoepithelial cells of the breast . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
a , b blood group antigens in tissues of ab heterozygotes . emphasis on normal and neoplastic urothelium . the tissue distribution of the a and b blood group antigens was studied in 41 individuals with the heterozygous ab red blood cell ( rbc ) phenotype . a total of 134 biopsies from a variety of normal tissues ( 94 from urothelium and 40 from other tissues ) were examined . in addition , changes in the expression of these antigens associated with neoplastic transformation were evaluated in 70 biopsies from transitional cell carcinomas of 19 ab heterozygous patients . there was heterogeneity in the distribution of tissue a and b antigens , depending on the cell type , as well as among cells of the same type . ninety-one percent of ab heterozygotes expressed both a and b antigens in normal epithelial cells , with a mosaic distribution clearly apparent in 50 % of these individuals . in 21 % of these subjects , the a antigen was undetectable in the vascular endothelial cells in all biopsies from several organs . in most ( 79 % ) transitional cell neoplasms , only one of the two antigens was consistently expressed . the results of this study may have implications for the clonal or specific gene deletion theories of neoplasia . they also demonstrate the existence of a subgroup of ab individuals in whom the a antigen is absent specifically from the vascular endothelium . 
flow cytometric analysis of the mechanism of methylmercury cytotoxicity . flow cytometric analysis of murine erythroleukemic cells ( melc ) exposed in vitro to 2.5 to 7.5 mumol/l ( micromolar ) methylmercury ( mehg ) reveals a dose-dependent decrease in the rate of dna synthesis ( rate of passage through the s phase of the cell cycle ) , manifested as the accumulation of most of the cells in the s phase , and a modest accumulation of cells in the g2/m phase of the cycle . light microscopy reveals a progressive increase in chromosomal damage ( condensation , pulverization ) . at or above 10 mumol/l mehg , progression through all the phases of the cell cycle is blocked and mitotic cells are arrested irreversibly in anaphase , with most exhibiting arrangement of chromosomes in a wreathlike ring formation . also the cells exhibit both nuclear propidium iodide ( pi ) fluorescence ( indicative of loss of viability ) and concurrent cytoplasmic carboxyfluorescein ( cf ) fluorescence ( viable cells exhibit cf fluorescence and exclude pi ) . in addition , there is a dose-dependent increase in cellular refractive index ( 90 degrees light scatter ) , an apparent decrease in cell volume ( axial light loss ) , and progressive resistance to detergent ( np-40 ) - mediated cytolysis . resistance to detergent-mediated cytolysis is indicative of fixation ( protein denaturation , cross-linking , and so on ) of the plasma membrane/cytoplasm complex . our findings indicate that dna synthesis is the primary target of mehg cytotoxicity and that apparent targets and degree of cytotoxicity are a complex function of dose . 
expression of aminopeptidase n ( cd13 ) in mesenchymal tumors . for a long time , cd13 molecules have been considered to be restricted to myeloid cells and related neoplasms . meanwhile , however , expression of cd13 has also been detected in some hepatocellular , gallbladder , renal , and lung carcinomas , and even in some fibrosarcomas and malignant melanomas . in this study , expression of cd13 antigen was immunohistochemically examined in non-neoplastic mesenchymal cells , along with 33 benign and 83 malignant mesenchymal tumors ( met ) using cd13 monoclonal antibodies ( mab ) my7 , u71 , wm-15 , and mou48 . in non-neoplastic mesenchymal cells , expression of cd13 was restricted to perivascular fibrocytes/blasts , tissue histiocytes , osteoclasts , and to the perineurium of peripheral nerve trunks . under neoplastic conditions , cd13 was detectable in some tumors of smooth muscle , fibrous , fibrohistiocytic , synovial , osteogenic , and peripheral nerve sheath origin , and even in some tumors of adipose tissue . tumors of striated muscle origin , of autonomic ganglia , and of cartilage-forming tissues were cd13-negative throughout . thus in most but not all tumors studied the pattern of expression of cd13 mirrors the situation found in their cells of origin . these findings enrich the data on expression of leukocyte differentiation antigens in extra-hematopoietic tissues . expression of cd13 , which meanwhile is known to be identical to aminopeptidase n , an important peptide-cleaving enzyme , in only some met might reflect a special functional state of these neoplasms . 
immunocytochemical localization of progesterone receptors in endocrine cells of the human pancreas . progesterone receptors ( pgr ) have been immunocytochemically localized in the nuclei of several ( 40 % to 75 % ) endocrine cells of the human pancreas and in a more variable number of neoplastic cells of 7 of 18 endocrine pancreatic tumors . conversely the exocrine epithelial cells of the pancreas did not exhibit any pgr immunoreactivity in normal as well as in different pathologic conditions , including pancreatic adenocarcinomas . estrogen receptors were not detected in any of the pancreatic samples investigated . double immunocytochemical experiments have documented that pgr immunoreactivity in normal langerhans islets is a consistent feature of most ( 75 % ) glucagon-producing a cells , of approximately 5 % to 20 % of insulin-producing b cells , and of a variable percentage of pancreatic polypeptide ( pp ) - producing cells , ranging from 5 % to 70 % . these figures were not affected by the sex , age , or underlying disease of the patients . the reported findings corroborate previous clinical and experimental evidence indicating that sex steroid hormones may have some regulatory effects on the functional activity of the endocrine pancreas . 
immediate versus delayed shoulder exercises after axillary lymph node dissection . a total of 144 evaluable patients with breast cancer were enrolled in a multicenter , randomized , prospective study to establish the role of delayed shoulder exercises on wound drainage and shoulder function after axillary lymph node dissection . patients in group 1 ( n = 78 ) started active shoulder exercises 1 day postoperatively . patients in group 2 ( n = 66 ) started on the eight postoperative day , following 1 week of immobilization of the arm . patients in group 2 had 14 % less wound drainage volume than those in group 1 ( 600 + / - 436 ml versus 701 + / - 398 ml ) ; this difference , however , was not significant . also , no differences could be established between the two groups when duration and volume of wound drainage , number and volume of seroma aspirations , wound complication rates , and shoulder function were compared 6 months after surgery . 
variations in sensitivity after sectioning the intercostobrachial nerve . the authors present a prospective study of the variations in sensitivity that appear in the armpit and arm after the intercostobrachial nerve has been sectioned in a modified radical mastectomy . of a total of 208 patients studied between 1978 and 1987 , the intercostobrachial nerve was sectioned in 139 patients , whereas in 30 it remained intact ; in 39 patients only peripheral branches of the nerve were sectioned . the patients were examined at regular postoperative intervals in order to evaluate their sensitivity both to touch and to pain in the axilla and arm . four hundred thirty-three examinations were carried out and the 3 operative groups were assessed accordingly . after the nerve was sectioned , there was increasing anesthesia in the armpit and hypoesthesia on the posterointernal face of the arm , while for the patients in whom the intercostobrachial nerve remained intact , these alterations were less intense and long-lasting . significant statistical differences between the two groups also exist . in the absence of axillary lymphatic ganglia infiltrated by the tumor , the conservation of the intercostobrachial nerve is recommended . 
anaesthetic problems in ex situ resection of the liver . ex-situ resection of the liver is a new surgical technique for treatment of liver tumours not amenable to conventional surgery . this paper describes the cardiovascular and metabolic changes that occurred in nine consecutive such patients . no severe haemodynamic or pulmonary complications occurred . specific problems were encountered during the prolonged anhepatic period , which lasted an average of 5.96 ( sd 1.46 ) hours . significant metabolic and coagulation disorders occurred 2 to 3 hours after hepatectomy because of complete loss of hepatic function . the predominant findings during the anhepatic period were hypoglycaemia and severe metabolic acidosis , mainly from increased levels of lactic acid . exogenous administration of dextrose 5 % at an average rate of 188 ml/hour was necessary to maintain normoglycaemia , while correction of metabolic acidosis required 403 ( sd 159.79 ) mmol of sodium bicarbonate , supplemented by hyperventilation . tris-hydroxymethylaminomethane was used when sodium overload was thought to be a problem . there was a marked decrease of factor v and fibrinogen , a moderate thrombocytopenia and fibrinolysis . the severity of these alterations was dependent on the duration of the anhepatic period and the primary function of the re-implanted liver . 
anesthesia for craniotomy : a double-blind comparison of alfentanil , fentanyl , and sufentanil . using a prospective , randomized , and double-blind study design , alfentanil ( n = 15 ) , fentanyl ( n = 14 ) , or sufentanil ( n = 16 ) , in combination with n2o , were administered to patients undergoing craniotomy for supratentorial tumor resection . physicians were given two syringes , one of which was labeled as " load " for the initial loading dose and the other as " maintenance " for continuous infusion . the concentration of drug in each syringe was adjusted to permit administration on a milliliter per kilogram basis . the target loading doses for alfentanil , fentanyl , and sufentanil were 75 , 10 , and 1 microgram/kg , respectively , and initial infusion rates were 33.5 , 2.0 , and 0.3 microgram.kg-1 . h-1 , respectively . additional supplementary boluses and changes in maintenance infusion rate were made according to predetermined guidelines . isoflurane , in increasing 0.2 % inspired increments , was used only when the maximum allowed opioid dose had been given ( i.e. , supplementary bolus doses equal to 75 % of the calculated loading dose or supplementary bolus doses equal to 50 % of the calculated loading dose combined with a 50 % increase in the maintenance infusion rate ) . opioid infusions were stopped at the time of bone flap replacement . antihypertensive medications and naloxone were subsequently given at the discretion of the anesthesiologist . group demographics were not different . total volumes of drug were similar among groups indicating equipotent preparations . administration of isoflurane , antihypertensive medications , and naloxone were not different among groups . although decreases in blood pressure seen with induction were similar among groups , alfentanil-treated patients received ephedrine more frequently before intubation . thirty minutes after entry into the postanesthesia recovery area , respiratory rate and ph were lowest in sufentanil-treated patients . 
infection during chronic epidural catheterization : diagnosis and treatment . a potentially serious complication of long-term epidural catheterization in cancer patients is infection . the early signs of infection were studied in 350 patients in whom long-term epidural catheters were inserted . three areas of the catheter track were found to be involved ; exit site and superficial catheter track infection , and epidural space infection . the authors identified the early signs of infection in each area and the progress of the infection from the deep track to include the epidural space in four of these patients . all 19 patients who developed deep track or epidural infections were successfully treated with antibiotics and catheter removal . none of the patients required surgery for spinal cord decompression . catheters were replaced in 15 of the 19 treated patients who requested them after treatment with no recurrent infections . it was concluded that use of long-term epidural catheterization is associated with a definable epidural infection rate . the use of epidural opioid analgesia is an effective and safe means of obtaining pain relief for terminally ill patients when patients are monitored for possible infection and receive prompt treatment when the diagnosis is established . 
the single-breath nitrogen test , mortality , and cancer . the relationship between indices of the single-breath nitrogen test and mortality , overall cancer incidence , and respiratory cancer incidence was examined in a cohort of 876 men , 46 to 69 yr of age , examined in 1974 and followed until june 1985 . closing volume , closing capacity , and slope of phase iii were not related to mortality or cancer . in contrast , fev1 was related to mortality , with an estimated relative mortality risk of 1.37 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.11 to 1.70 ) per liter under the expected fev1 , given height , age , and smoking , but fev1 was not related to cancer . inability to perform acceptable single-breath nitrogen test tracings was related to mortality with a relative mortality risk of 2.03 ( 1.45 to 2.85 ) , but not to cancer . we conclude that indices of the single-breath nitrogen test have no predictive value concerning overall mortality and cancer incidence . 
frequency and clinical implications of monoclonal antibody detection of tumor-associated antigens in serum of patients with lung cancer . we previously showed that a panel of monoclonal antibodies ( mab ) ( 5e8 , 5c7 , and 1f10 ) that detect serum tumor-associated antigens ( taa ) could distinguish patients with lung cancer from those without to a highly significant degree . however , among patients with lung cancer , the frequency and clinical importance of serum taa expression were not established . therefore , we analyzed the serum and initial clinical characteristics of 52 philadelphia va patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer seen over a 13-month period . a modified semiquantitative elisa was employed to determine mab reactivity . our cohort was characterized by a mean age of 65 + / - 9 year ( sd ) and mean karnovsky score of 74 + / - 10 ; marked weight loss was present in 28 subjects , and 39 presented with either stage iii or iv disease . the panel detected taas in 38 of 52 cases ( sensitivity 73 % ; 95 % cl , 60-83 % ) , including 13 of 22 squamous cell , 9 of 12 adenocarcinoma , 10 of 11 undifferentiated , and 6 of 7 small cell carcinomas . no significant differences were found between the reactive and nonreactive patients in terms of age , stage at presentation , histologic subtype , performance status , or weight loss . however , 1f10 and 5c7 were each associated with a greater risk of early death by cox proportional hazard analysis ( p = 0.017 and 0.006 , respectively ) even when other prognostic variables are accounted for . we conclude that specific serum taa can be detected in the majority of lung cancer patients with all major histologic subtypes in a cohort with advanced tumors and poor prognostic indices . 
cecal diverticulitis presented as a cecal tumor . seven patients diagnosed as having acute appendicitis were operated on and a cecal wall mass due to cecal diverticulitis was found . in two patients the mass could not be separated from the cecal wall and right colectomy was performed . in five patients , in whom the mass could be separated from the cecum , conservative operations ( three diverticulectomies and two wedge resections ) were performed , thus avoiding needless , more extensive surgery . 
jejunal-rectal fistula as a complication of postoperative radiotherapy . we present the case of a patient with an unusual , complex enteric fistula with multiple tracts and associated abscesses . the fistula was a late complication of radiotherapy , administered three years earlier , after resection for carcinoma of the sigmoid colon . most of the small bowel was involved in the radiation-induced disease . a wide resection was performed successfully . this report reviews current literature on intra-abdominal postradiotherapy injuries , particularly intestinal fistulae . 
risk for colon adenomas in patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps objective : to determine whether hyperplastic polyps found in the rectosigmoid area of the colon are associated with proximal adenomas , and to judge whether patients with distal hyperplastic polyps found during sigmoidoscopy might benefit from full colonoscopy . design : data on patients having colonoscopy collected prospectively according to a set protocol . the size and location of all polyps were noted , and all polyps were biopsied . setting : two university hospitals . patients : one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six consecutive patients referred for colonoscopy between 31 december 1987 and 31 august 1989 . results : of the 970 patients who met eligibility requirements , 274 ( 28.3 % ) had adenomas and 108 ( 11.1 % ) had hyperplastic polyps . the proportion of patients with distal hyperplastic polyps and proximal adenomas ( 31.9 % ) was similar to the proportion of those without distal hyperplastic polyps ( 23.0 % ) ( crude odds ratio , 1.57 ; 95 % ci , 0.77 to 3.06 ) . after adjusting for age and sex , the results were unchanged ( adjusted odds ratio , 1.53 ; ci , 0.82 to 2.88 ) . patients with distal adenomas , on the other hand , were three times more likely to have proximal adenomas than those without distal adenomas ( adjusted odds ratio , 3.42 ; ci , 1.99 to 5.88 ) . conclusions : distal hyperplastic polyps are not strong predictors of risk for proximal adenomas . based on the magnitude of the risk difference , we do not believe that finding a hyperplastic polyp during sigmoidoscopy justifies doing a full colonoscopy to search for proximal adenomas . because rectosigmoid adenomas are associated with proximal adenomas , however , small polyps seen during sigmoidoscopy should be biopsied to determine their type . colonoscopy should be reserved for patients who are proved to have adenomas . 
tumor cell lines established in vitro : an independent prognostic factor for survival in non-small-cell lung cancer . objective : to determine the relation between in-vitro establishment of tumor cell lines and survival in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer . design : cohort study . setting : single-institution tertiary care center . patients : one hundred twenty-three consecutive patients with non-small-cell lung cancer from whom a viable tumor specimen could be obtained . intervention : tumor tissue was removed at the time of entry into a therapeutic protocol . the tumor tissue was processed in the laboratory for attempted cell-line establishment . patients classified as potentially curable ( stages i , ii , and iiia ) were treated with surgical resection , radiation therapy , or a combination . patients suitable for palliative therapy only ( stages iiib and iv ) were treated with radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy . chemotherapy was based on in-vitro drug sensitivity when available . cell-line establishment was correlated to clinical outcome . measurements and main results : univariate analysis of survival was done using the log-rank test ; multivariate analysis was done by cox modeling step-up and step-down techniques . cell lines were established from the tumor specimens of 25 patients ( 20 % ) . those patients experienced a median survival of 7 months compared with 18 months in patients from whom cell lines could not be established ( p less than 0.001 ) . in the 61 patients with potentially curable disease , 8 patients ( 13 % ) with cell lines established had a median survival of 8 months compared with 32 months for those without cell lines established ( p = 0.001 ) . in the 62 palliative group patients , the median survival of the 17 patients ( 27 % ) from whom tumor cell lines were established was 5 months compared with 7 months for those without cell lines ( p = 0.15 ) . multivariate analysis in both groups showed cell-line establishment to be a significant indicator of prognosis ( p less than 0.0001 for curable group ; p less than 0.01 for palliative group ) . conclusion : in-vitro tumor growth is related to decreased patient survival , which in turn reflects the biologic aggressiveness of cancers giving rise to these tumor cell lines . 
the internist in the management of head and neck cancer . the general internist has an important role in the management of head and neck squamous cell cancers . this heterogeneous group of cancers must be accurately diagnosed and staged before planning treatment . curability is directly related to stage at presentation and , because most patients with such cancers present to internists first , these physicians must be familiar with presenting symptoms and must be suspicious enough to refer patients with symptoms for appropriate evaluation . the work-up of patients with suspected unknown primary cancer presenting as adenopathy is detailed , and the physician is cautioned not to immediately proceed to open biopsy . as many as 10 % of such primary cancers remain undetected , although , with proper therapy , the 5-year survival rate for squamous cell cancer of the head and neck is 60 % . those patients cured of head and neck cancer still face significant psychosocial and medical problems , including hypothyroidism , xerostomia , and a 20 % rate of second primary cancer . head and neck cancer is highly preventable ; 75 % of cases are related to tobacco and alcohol use . smokeless tobacco has gained popularity among young americans and is associated with an increased incidence of head and neck cancer at several sites . education is crucial , and internists must seek strategies to stop patients from using tobacco products . other etiologic factors include industrial carcinogens , epstein-barr virus , and diet . retrospective serologic and dietary recall studies of vitamin a suggest an etiologic role of diet ; vitamin a analogs have been tested in preneoplastic lesions . to reduce mortality from head and neck cancers , the general internist must play a central role in prevention and early detection . 
colorectal cancer : evidence for distinct genetic categories based on proximal or distal tumor location purpose : to examine studies of normal colon and colorectal cancer for evidence that the location of the primary tumor proximal or distal to the splenic flexure of the colon may determine distinct genetic categories of this disease . data identification : studies were identified through a manual search of journals , through medline , and through review of bibliographies in identified articles . study selection : approximately 300 articles were examined . about 150 articles were excluded because tumor location was not reported or was reported in a way that did not permit correlation with results or conclusions . data extraction : articles were selected either because the presentation of data permitted correlation of results with anatomic regions of the colon or because they were relevant to inherited colorectal cancer . results of the analysis : differences were noted in biologic properties of proximal and distal segments of normal fetal and adult colonic epithelium and in the epidemiologic , pathologic , cytogenetic , and molecular features of proximal and distal colorectal cancer . some differences correlated with the features of inherited colorectal cancer ( proximal , nonpolyposis or distal , and polyposis forms ) . conclusions : developmental and biologic differences in proximal and distal colon may reflect differing susceptibilities to neoplastic transformation . differences in proximal and distal colorectal cancer suggest that each may arise through different pathogenetic mechanisms . proximal tumors appear to represent a genetically more stable form of the disease and may arise through the same mechanisms that underlie inherited nonpolyposis colon cancer . distal tumors show evidence of greater genetic instability and may develop through the same mechanisms that underlie polyposis-associated colorectal cancer syndromes . 
histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms : ii . acinic cell carcinomas . acinic cell carcinomas display varied cytoarchitectural patterns of growth that should allow for formulation of histopathologic grading . grading of these carcinomas may serve to identify subsets whose biologic behavior is more aggressive than the usually accepted low-grade behavior of acinic cell carcinomas as a group . to that end , a three-level histopathologic grading scheme is presented . 
myasthenic thymus and thymoma are selectively enriched in acetylcholine receptor-reactive t cells . we compared t-cell proliferative responses to acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) and to purified protein derivative ( ppd ) ( of tuberculin ) of hyperplastic thymus , thymoma , and blood cells from patients with myasthenia gravis ( mg ) . hyperplastic mg thymus cells gave significantly higher and more consistent responses to achr than parallel cultures of autologous blood cells , whereas responses to ppd showed an opposite trend . thus there was a preferential localization of achr-reactive t cells in the hyperplastic mg thymus . furthermore , there was a strong correlation between blood and thymus cell responses to ppd ( but not to achr ) , arguing that the hyperplastic mg thymus contains a sample of sensitized peripheral t cells . by contrast , both achr - and ppd-responsive t cells were almost undetectable in thymus from nonmyasthenic patients , which is evidently much less receptive to circulating t cells . cells from mg thymomas showed the highest stimulations by achr but did not consistently react to ppd . however , the uninvolved thymus adjacent to these thymomas behaved almost identically to the hyperplastic samples described above . our interpretation is that achr-specific t cells are initially sensitized in the mg thymoma but are selectively trapped in the hyperplastic thymus after being primed elsewhere . 
cutaneous t-cell lymphoma ( parapsoriasis en plaque ) . an association with pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta in young children . pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta ( pleva ) and pityriasis lichenoides chronica ( plc ) are related benign disorders without recognized association with cutaneous t-cell lymphoma ( ctcl ) . we report the cases of two children with documented pleva evolving into ctcl over several years . one child had the clinical lesions of plc but the dermatopathologic findings of pleva at age 2 years . at age 12 years , he had skin changes of poikiloderma atrophicans vasculare and dermatopathologic findings consistent with parapsoriasis en plaque . the second child presented at age 7 years with scaling dermatitis and dermatopathologic findings of pleva . at age 12 years , the histologic diagnosis was parapsoriasis . monoclonal antibody studies performed on biopsy specimens from both patients revealed 70 % to 100 % cells staining with cd5 , 80 % to 90 % staining with cd4 , 30 % to 50 % staining with cd8 , and an increase in cd1-staining cells in the papillary dermis , indicating a predominantly helper t-cell infiltrate . we believe that plc and pleva may be part of the spectrum of ctcl . furthermore , ctcl may be more common in young children than once thought . 
my7 monoclonal antibody for diagnosis of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma . infiltrate in cutaneous t-cell lymphomas ( ctcls ) is composed mainly of cd4 helper cells with a phenotype very similar to that of benign cutaneous lymphoid infiltrate . my7 ( cd13 ) is a monoclonal antibody that is normally expressed on peripheral granulocytes and monocytes but also cross-reacts with an antigen expressed on epidermal basal cells . we studied my7 expression on basal cells of the epidermis and cd4 cell infiltrate in 34 ctcls , 11 pseudolymphomas , and 29 other benign cutaneous lesions . an indirect immunofluorescence technique with double labeling and an immunoperoxidase technique were used . we found that in benign inflammatory infiltrate , less than 10 % of cd4 cells expressed my7 antigen associated with normal my7 monoclonal antibody labeling of basal cells , whereas in ctcls more than 50 % of cd4 tumoral cells in dermis expressed my7 antigens ; however , basal cells were my7 negative . thus , it is demonstrated that my7 monoclonal antibody with its double modulation on epidermis ( basal cells ) and dermis ( cd4 cells ) has diagnostic value for differentiating ctcls with cd4 + my7 + tumor cells in dermis and my7-negative basal cells from benign inflammatory lesions with cd4 + my7 - cells in dermis and my7-positive basal cells . this modulation of my7 labeling could be related to the secretion of epidermal cytokines . 
positive results of combined therapy of surgery and intraperitoneal hyperthermic perfusion for far-advanced gastric cancer . to evaluate the clinical efficacy of intraperitoneal hyperthermic perfusion ( iphp ) for far-advanced gastric cancer , particularly with peritoneal seeding , we investigated the survival times of 59 patients who underwent distal subtotal gastrectomy , total gastrectomy , or total gastrectomy combined with concomitant resection of some of the remaining intra-abdominal organs . in all the 30 patients given iphp , no cancer cells were present posthyperthermically in the lavage from the douglas pouch . the 30 patients given iphp lived longer than the 29 patients not given iphp ( p = 0.001 ) , with a 1-year survival rate of 80.4 % in the former group compared to 34.2 % in the latter . with respect to a comparison of survival time of patients with peritoneal seeding , 7 patients not given iphp had a 6-month survival rate of 57.1 % and did not survive more than 9 months , whereas 20 patients given iphp had 1 - and 2-year survival rates of 78.7 % and 45.0 % , respectively ; here the difference was significant ( p = 0.001 ) . the iphp and control groups without peritoneal metastasis included 10 and 22 patients , respectively , and the 1-year survival rates are 85.4 % and 45.3 % , respectively . the survival rates of the former exceeded those of the latter , with p = 0.015 by the generalized wilcoxon test . thus this combined therapy offers the promise of extended survival for patients with far-advanced gastric cancer . 
intrarectal ultrasonography in rectal cancer staging and in the evaluation of pelvic disease . clinical uses of intrarectal ultrasound . accurate preoperative staging of a rectal cancer patient may impact heavily on subsequent management . this study attempts to evaluate the accuracy of intrarectal ultrasonography ( irus ) in staging rectal cancers compared to clinical and pathologic examination . in addition the accuracy of irus was assessed in a group of patients with uncertain pelvic-perirectal disease after a negative physical examination . in a prospective manner , 52 cancer patients were staged with digital exam and irus . accuracy rates were 48 % and 83 % , respectively , compared to pathologic evaluation in assessing wall penetration , and irus identified positive lymph nodes in 12 of 17 cases . in patients with pelvic disease , irus corresponded with pathologic diagnosis in 15 of 17 cases and revealed new information in 6 patients . intrarectal ultrasonography appears to be the most accurate imaging technique for staging rectal cancers and demonstrates promise in the evaluation of perirectal-pelvic disease . 
localization and peptide content of endocrine pancreatic tumors . endocrine pancreatic tumors contain and frequently secret neurohormonal peptides . this phenomenon can be used as a diagnostic and classifying tool . this study analyzes 31 patients operated on because of an endocrine pancreatic tumor , including the diagnostic procedures and the localization methods . in 15 insulinoma cases only 6 patients had a positive arteriography , while all 11 selective pancreatic vein samplings were positive . the immunoreactivity showed that , besides insulin , most tumors also contained other peptides . of four gastrinoma cases the arteriography was positive in three , but the selective vein sampling localized the tumor in all . the tumor 's content of peptides showed mixed patterns . in the four glucagonomas , the arteriography was positive in all and the venous sampling performed in three of the cases also was positive . in five pancreatic polypeptide-containing tumors ( pp-omas ) the arteriography was positive in four and sampling performed in two was positive in both . in the pp-omas the peptide pattern showed that these tumors frequently contain several peptides . we used selective pancreatic vein sampling in 21 cases with positive result in all . in the cases in which arteriography was negative , the sampling results helped the surgeon to find the tumor . the peptide pattern in the tumors varied greatly and most tumors were multihormonal . 
localization and surgical treatment of occult insulinomas . management of patients with biochemical evidence of insulinoma and negative preoperative imaging studies ( occult ) tumors is controversial , varying from primarily medical management to aggressive , blind nearly total pancreatectomy to extirpate the tumor . since 1982 , 12 consecutive patients with occult insulinoma underwent preoperative portal venous sampling ( pvs ) for insulin followed by surgical exploration with intraoperative ultrasound ( ious ) . eleven of twelve patients ( 92 % ) had insulinoma removed and were cured . portal venous sampling correctly predicted the location of the insulinoma in 9 patients ( 75 % ) and that no tumor would be found in another patient . a fourfold insulin gradient in the pancreatic tail of one patient correctly predicted that a distal pancreatectomy would remove the insulinoma despite the fact that neither palpation nor ious identified any tumor . intraoperative ultrasound was the single best method to identify occult tumors because it correctly identified 10 of 11 insulinomas that were found , including five pancreatic head tumors that were not palpable . palpation identified five insulinomas . of the 10 tumors that were identified during operation by palpation or ultrasound , ious identified significantly more ( 100 % versus 50 % , p = 0.03 ) and guided the successful enucleation of each . the results support the strategy of preoperative pvs and operation with ious to localize and remove insulinoma in patients with occult tumors . most tumors ( 75 % ) will be correctly localized to a specific pancreatic region by preoperative pvs and identified by ious ( 83 % ) , allowing simple enucleation and biochemical correction of hypoglycemia . morbid blind pancreatic resections are no longer indicated and long-term medical management of hypoglycemia should be reserved for the occasional patient ( 8 % ) who fails preoperative pvs and operation guided by ious . 
surgical management of pheochromocytoma with the use of metyrosine . despite recommended preoperative preparation with alpha-adrenergic blockers , severe hemodynamic instability may occur during operations to resect pheochromocytoma . we combined the alpha-blocker phenoxybenzamine with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor metyrosine in an attempt to better manage the hypertension of patients with pheochromocytoma undergoing surgical resection . this report reviews the cases of 25 consecutive patients undergoing surgery for known intra-abdominal pheochromocytoma . each patient had elevated serum or urine levels of catecholamines or their metabolites . nineteen patients were prepared before operation with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine and six patients were given phenoxybenzamine alone . there were no significant differences in maximum , minimum , or mean blood pressure before or after tumor resection between patients who received metyrosine and those who did not . however careful review suggested that those who received metyrosine had more severe disease as judged by biochemical criteria . study of selected patients matched for age and severity of disease suggested that the intraoperative blood pressure management of patients prepared with phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine was facilitated . in addition metyrosine-prepared patients lost less blood and required less volume replacement during surgery than did non-metyrosine-prepared patients . there were no apparent differences in postoperative fluid requirements . although the study is not a prospective randomized trial , a retrospective review of patients managed with the combination of phenoxybenzamine and metyrosine suggests that surgery to resect pheochromocytoma can be better performed with both drugs than with phenoxybenzamine alone . the combination regimen appears to result in better blood pressure control , less blood loss , and the need for less intraoperative fluid replacement than does the traditional method of single-agent alpha-adrenergic blockade . 
strategy for lymphadenectomy in lung cancer three centimeters or less in diameter we have surgically treated 221 patients with a primary lung cancer 3.0 cm or less in diameter . there were 8 patients with a tumor 1.0 cm or less in diameter ( group a ) , 84 with a tumor 1.1 to 2.0 cm in diameter ( group b ) , and 129 with a tumor 2.1 to 3.0 cm in diameter ( group c ) . the incidence of n0 , n1 , and n2 disease was 100 % , 0 % , and 0 % , respectively , for patients in group a ; 83 % , 5 % , and 12 % in group b ; and 62 % , 12 % , and 25 % in group c ( n0 versus n2 , p less than 0.01 ) . for the 63 patients with regional lymph node involvement , " skipping " metastasis was present in 28.6 % . the 5-year survival rate was 80 % for group a , 74 % for group b , and 51 % for group c ( group b versus group c , p less than 0.01 ) . of the 121 patients who underwent complete resection and were followed up for 5 years , 41 % had recurrence , 8 % with local recurrence and 33 % with distant metastasis . therefore , it is important to do as complete a resection as possible together with mediastinal lymphadenectomy . efforts to detect systemic spread should be made at the time of preoperative evaluation , even when the lung tumor is small . 
surgical management of pulmonary metastatic leiomyosarcoma with gross endobronchial extension . metastatic leiomyosarcoma occasionally is seen with gross endobronchial extension without invasion of the bronchial wall . these patients have major airway obstruction and partial or total atelectasis of the lung . precise bronchoscopic assessment coupled with intraoperative bronchotomy allows the surgeon to determine the origin of the tumor and to save uninvolved pulmonary parenchyma . our experience with 4 such patients illustrates the possibility of saving lung tissue despite total bronchial obstruction . 
giant chest wall tumor resulting from tissue reaction to foreign bodies . three patients are reported in whom chest wall tumors developed 19 to 28 years after thoracoplasty and increased in size with time . the tumors could be removed operatively with good results . all tumors were composed of hematoma and necrotic material , and in all cases they revealed foreign bodies microscopically . diagnosis and possible etiological factors are discussed . 
thoracoscopic treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax using carbon dioxide laser . in an effort to improve the success rate of the previously described thoracoscopic electrocautery ablation technique of spontaneous pneumothorax , the carbon dioxide laser was evaluated in 12 patients . the recurrent ( 5 patients ) or persistent ( 7 patients ) spontaneous pneumothoraces were caused by rupture of ( 1 ) blebs in 6 patients , ( 2 ) intrapulmonary apical type ii bullae in 3 patients , and ( 3 ) diffuse bullous emphysema , type iii , in 3 . the air leaks were successfully sealed in all but 1 patient with ruptured type ii bulla . surgical specimen from this single failure suggested that the entire inner lining of the bullae must be thermocoagulated . this technical modification led to successful outcome in 2 subsequent cases . with the use of carbon dioxide laser , it was possible to treat not only small blebs but all types of bullae causing spontaneous pneumothorax . laser thoracoscopy is effective and safe in treating spontaneous pneumothorax . 
vagal schwannoma . a patient with a benign encapsulated intrathoracic vagal schwannoma is presented and the literature is reviewed . the right paratracheal tumor was identified incidentally on a chest film and excised using a right thoracotomy . although rare , vagal schwannomas should be considered for any mediastinal mass along the vagus nerves especially when the paratracheal tumor produces minimal or no respiratory symptoms suggesting a slow-growing , encapsulated process . 
successful fontan-type operation for a nonresectable right ventricular tumor . a large intracavitary right ventricular tumor in a 24-year-old patient was considered nonresectable because it involved the interventricular septum , the free ventricular walls , and the tricuspid valve . surgical palliation consisted of closure of the tricuspid and pulmonary valves , and the right atrium was anastomosed to the pulmonary artery bifurcation . the patient is asymptomatic 7 years after operation , and the neoplasm ( a rhabdomyoma ) has not increased in size . 
mediastinal hibernoma , a rare tumor . hibernoma is an uncommon soft tissue tumor that is derived from the remnants of fetal brown fat . review of the world medical literature revealed 90 cases , 6 of which were intrathoracic . we present the seventh case of intrathoracic hibernoma ; in this case , the hibernoma was within the mediastinum without direct invasion of other structures . 
acute hypercalcemic crisis after an open heart operation . acute hyperparathyroidism developed in a previously normocalcemic 64-year-old woman during the first week after a coronary operation . prolonged qt interval in the electrocardiogram and hypercalcemia were documented on the fourth postoperative day . neck exploration on the fifth postoperative day revealed a lower right parathyroid adenoma . parathyroidectomy resulted in rapid and dramatic improvement of the clinical picture and normalization of laboratory values . 
long-term results of operation for non-small cell lung cancer in the elderly . we surgically treated 185 patients with non-small cell lung cancer who were 70 years old or older . the operative mortality rate was 3 % , and the 5-year survival rate was 48 % . the mortality and prognosis were similar to those in younger patients . the number of elderly patients who smoked heavily or who had ventilatory defects was high , but the incidence of pneumonectomy was low . there were no differences based on age in regard to histological type , tnm classification , and curability . pulmonary complications occurred in 21 % of the elderly patients and were correlated with preoperative pulmonary function and smoking habits . when the elderly are to undergo elective pulmonary resection for lung cancer , the preoperative evaluation of pulmonary function should be thorough , and both preoperative and postoperative physical therapy should be given . if postoperative pulmonary function is predicted to be less than 0.8 l/m2 of vital capacity and 0.6 l/m2 of forced expiratory volume in 1 second , a limited resection or nonsurgical therapy should be considered . 
congenital tracheoesophageal fistula associated with carcinoma of the lung in an adult . a rare case of adult congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistula was diagnosed . subsequently , at operation , large cell , undifferentiated carcinoma of the right middle lobe with extension to the right lobe and adherence to the diaphragm was documented . the diagnosis , surgical intervention , and 4-year follow-up are presented . 
bronchial anomaly of the right upper lobe . this case report presents a rare anomaly of right upper lobe bronchial anatomy . during routine right upper lobe resection for carcinoma , a common right upper and middle lobe bronchus was found . the resection was completed as a right upper and middle bilobectomy . knowledge of this uncommon variant was beneficial in performing the pulmonary resection . a review of the literature is presented . 
squamous carcinoma metastatic to the sternum . a 63-year-old man had a 10 x 16-cm sternal mass 18 months after a second aortocoronary bypass operation . the resected lesion was a metastatic tumor of squamous histology . no primary tumor was found . the diagnostic work-up and treatment options are presented . 
malignant thymoma presenting as intracardiac tumor and superior vena caval obstruction . a case of malignant thymoma with intracardiac infiltration and intrinsic superior vena caval obstruction due to the tumor is reported . intracardiac invasion by a thymoma is rare and for this reason is believed worthy of a report . 
empiric treatment of fungal infections in the neutropenic host . review of the literature and guidelines for use . persistent fever that is refractory to broad-spectrum antibacterials is common in neutropenic patients undergoing induction chemotherapy of acute leukemia . clinical experience suggests that many of these patients are infected with fungi . until recently , data supporting the role of empiric antifungal therapy in this setting were limited to small groups of patients or postmortem reports . evolving evidence in larger patient populations supports data from smaller series : febrile neutropenic patients who have failed to respond to a 4 - to 7-day course of broad-spectrum antibacterials may benefit from the early initiation of antifungal therapy . patients with fungal colonization or pulmonary infiltrates and adult patients who have not received previous fungal prophylaxis may especially benefit from the early use of antifungal drugs . amphotericin b has been the " gold standard " for empiric antifungal therapy , although the newer azoles may be useful in certain situations . 
systemic therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer . fluorouracil-based chemotherapy regimens have been utilized in metastatic colorectal cancer for more than 30 years . early attempts at defining an optimal treatment schedule and use in combination with other drugs failed to significantly improve results . in contrast , the clinical effectiveness of fluorouracil has been improved by continuous infusion administration and modulation with folinic acid . both approaches have increased the response rate compared with results achieved with traditional bolus schedules ; the effect on survival has been less significant . unfortunately , expense and , in some instances , toxicity have also been increased , which detracts from their overall usefulness . clinical studies that evaluate fluorouracil chemotherapy in combination with biological-response modifiers are ongoing and will be areas of intense research during the next few years . 
acute renal failure in obstructive jaundice in cholangiocarcinoma . this study was aimed at defining the natural history of renal failure in obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma , which is an important health problem in northeastern thailand . sixty-four patients among a total of 130 patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to cholangiocarcinoma who developed acute renal failure were studied retrospectively . analysis was made with respect to clinical features , laboratory findings , and outcome . the development of renal failure before surgery was observed in all patients . it was nonoliguric in 80 % and was associated with severe jaundice , gram-negative infection ( 42 % ) , hypotension ( 31 % ) , hypoproteinemia ( 30 % ) , hyponatremia ( 56 % ) , and hypokalemia ( 63 % ) . the mean duration of renal failure was 2 weeks . all patients underwent surgery for the relief of jaundice . seventy-seven percent of the patients survived and had recovery of renal function after the relief of jaundice . twenty-three percent of the patients died of infection . clinical data highlight the higher serum bilirubin levels and the frequent occurrence of hyponatremia , hypokalemia , and hypotension in renal failure . their possible roles in contributing to the development of renal failure are discussed . 
medical comorbidity of major depressive disorder in a primary medical practice . despite much speculation about the relationship between depression and medical comorbidity in primary care settings , few investigators have examined this issue empirically . using a two-stage screening procedure , we assessed 618 patients aged 18 to 64 years in an academic general medicine clinic . forty-one patients ( 6.6 % ) suffered from a current episode of major depressive disorder ( mdd ) . we compared this group with a 20 % random sample of nondepressed patients . while patients with mdd were younger ( mean age , 41.1 vs 47.2 years ) , they were assessed by the duke university severity of illness scale as having more severe medical illness . patients with mdd were more likely to have malignant tumors and " ill-defined conditions " than nondepressed patients . the 18 patients with mdd ( 44 % ) who were correctly diagnosed by their physicians had less severe medical illness than those whose depression was clinically undetected . a logistic regression model predicting mdd group membership included female gender , younger age , higher duke university severity of illness scale score , and more frequent inactive ill-defined diagnoses . these findings are consistent with assertions : ( 1 ) patients with mdd have more physical illness than nondepressed patients and/or ( 2 ) somatic symptoms and disability caused by mdd add to the burden of physical illness . 
pheochromocytoma presenting as rhabdomyolysis and acute myoglobinuric renal failure . we report the case of a previously healthy young woman who presented with the sudden onset of rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuric renal failure , requiring hemodialysis for 3 weeks . common causes of rhabdomyolysis were ruled out ; as renal function returned , severe hypertension was noted and a pheochromocytoma was diagnosed . we suggest that pheochromocytoma causes rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria via catecholamine-mediated vasoconstriction and skeletal muscle ischemia . 
lower extremity weakness as the initial manifestation of lung cancer [ published erratum appears in arch phys med rehabil 1991 jan ; 72 ( 1 ) :61 ] a 55-year-old woman had progressive lower extremity weakness . she had an 80-pack-per-year history of cigarette smoking . electromyographic findings were consistent with the lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome . despite a normal chest x-ray , normal laboratory studies , and negative bronchoscopy , investigation for lung cancer was pursued . the final thoracotomy and pathology reports indicated a diagnosis of oat cell carcinoma . after treatment with chemotherapy and radiation therapy , clinical and electrophysiologic findings have resolved . two years after diagnosis , the patient remains in good health without evidence of recurrence . 
needle-localized mammographic lesions . results and evolving treatment strategy . from january 1981 to december 1987 , 932 needle-localization breast biopsies were performed at our institution for mammographically detected abnormalities . we reviewed 531 needle-localization breast biopsy procedures performed during two periods ( january 1981 to june 1984 , n = 311 ; and january to august 1987 , n = 220 ) to compare results and treatment patterns , and to determine the prevalence of the missed lesions . mammographic abnormalities detected on routine screening accounted for a larger proportion of needle-localization breast biopsies in the later series ( 94 [ 30 % ] of 311 vs 94 [ 43 % ] of 220 ) . however , the rate at which carcinoma was identified remained constant at 29 % as did the percentage of cancers that were invasive ( 46 % vs 51 % ) . overall , the rate of malignant diagnoses after needle-localization breast biopsy was lowest in asymptomatic women undergoing routine screening mammography ( 44 [ 24 % ] of 188 ) and significantly higher in women undergoing mammographic follow-up of the contralateral breast after treatment for breast cancer ( 28 [ 43 % ] of 65 ) . there were seven missed lesions in 531 needle-localization breast biopsies , necessitating a second procedure in six and interval mammograms in one . 
hepatic vein reconstruction for preserving remnant liver function . hepatic malignancies often infiltrate to the major hepatic vein . recently , we performed hepatic resection combined with hepatic vein reconstruction for preserving remnant liver function in three such patients . one patient had a saphenous vein graft . postoperative liver function of the patients who underwent hepatic vein reconstruction was compared with those of eight patients who underwent hepatic resection of segments vii and viii . the right hepatic vein in four of them was resected and in the remaining four was preserved by skeletalization using an ultrasonic aspirator . although four patients with right hepatic vein resection showed severe lowering of liver function after surgery , the postoperative course of patients with preservation or reconstruction of the right hepatic vein maintained good liver function . liver regeneration of three patients with hepatic vein reconstruction was good on computed tomography . besides this report , to our knowledge , there is no other report of hepatic vein reconstruction for preserving the remnant liver function . problems with hepatic resection combined with hepatic vein reconstruction are discussed . we conclude that hepatic vein reconstruction is one of the means for extending indication of the malignant tumor resection of the liver . 
primary malignant peritoneal mesothelioma . a report of seven cases and a review of the literature . mesothelioma of the peritoneum is a rare malignant neoplasm easily mistaken by both surgeon and pathologist for one of the more common neoplasms of the abdomen . review of our records from metropolitan-area hospitals for the past 15 years identified seven patients with primary peritoneal mesotheliomas . their diagnosis , management , and survival is analyzed . we report a case of an extended survivor ( 7 years ) and one of a long-term survivor ( 15 years ) , as well as what we believe to be the only case in the literature presenting with a coexistent malignant neoplasm . prevention of this commonly fatal neoplasm is linked to avoiding occupational exposure to asbestos ; long-term survival for a few patients may be achieved with correct identification of the neoplasm and aggressive management . this report includes a review of the literature . 
management of perineal wounds following abdominoperineal resection with inferior gluteal flaps . our experience treating perineal wounds secondary to abdominoperineal resection , either for inflammatory bowel disease or cancer , is presented . a total of 16 patients were treated either on a delayed basis or at the same time as the abdominoperineal resection . all wounds were closed using the inferior gluteal myocutaneous flap . fifteen of 16 patients have achieved healing , eight of whom had no complications . only minor revisions or local wound care were required in the remaining patients , with only one patient failing to heal . our results compare favorably with previous reports of treatment of this difficult problem . 
the papillary-cystic neoplasm of the pancreas . an increasingly recognized clinicopathologic entity . the clinical course of the papillary-cystic neoplasm of the pancreas is contrasted with that of the pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma . the former occurs predominantly in young women , has a low malignant potential , and is highly curable with surgical treatment . three cases are reported that illustrate the typical clinical features and the indolent nature of the tumor . one case was discovered after blunt abdominal trauma resulted in rupture of the tumor and hemoperitoneum . all cases were treated by pancreatic resection with preservation of the spleen , an important consideration in younger patients . all patients were free of disease at long-term follow-up . increasing awareness of this tumor has resulted in the reclassification of several tumors and should lead to better recognition by surgeons caring for patients with pancreatic diseases . 
retrovirus from human t-cell leukemia virus type i-associated myelopathy is the same strain as a prototype human t-cell leukemia virus type i. a retrovirus was isolated from a t-cell line that was established from lymphocytes in the cerebrospinal fluid of a patient with human t-cell leukemia virus type i-associated myelopathy ( ham ) , and its genome was sequenced . the nucleotide sequence of the 3 ' half of the total genome was identical in 99.5 % of the nucleotides to that of the prototype human t-cell leukemia virus type i that was derived from a patient with adult t-cell leukemia . these results indicate that the same retrovirus human t-cell leukemia virus type i is associated with both a neurological disease , ham , and a lymphoproliferative disease , adult t-cell leukemia . 
molecular phenotype of a pediatric small round cell tumor . molecular probes were used to characterize an unusual small round cell abdominal tumor arising from the fallopian tube of a 15-year-old girl . dna and rna extracted from the tumor and adjacent normal tissue was subjected to southern and northern blot analysis using a variety of different probes . n-myc oncogene rna was greatly expressed in the tumor , but was not expressed in normal tissue or amplified in chromosomal dna . insulin-like growth factor ii rna was similarly overexpressed in the neoplasm , but not in normal tissue . while histopathologic studies could not distinguish between a neuroectodermal neoplasm and wilms ' tumor , electron microscopy and the pattern of gene expression was most consistent with wilms ' tumor . 
decrease in cerebral metabolic rate of glucose after high-dose methotrexate in childhood acute lymphocytic leukemia . we measured changes in the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose ( rcmrglu ) using 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography for the assessment of neurotoxicity in childhood acute lymphocytic leukemia treated with high-dose methotrexate ( hd-mtx ) therapy . we studied 8 children with acute lymphocytic leukemia ( mean age : 9.6 years ) treated with hd-mtx ( 200 mg/kg or 2,000 mg/m2 ) therapy . cmrglu after hd-mtx therapy was most reduced ( 40 % ) in the patient who had central nervous system leukemia and was treated with the largest total doses of both intrathecal mtx ( it-mtx ) and hd-mtx . cmrglu in the whole brain after hd-mtx therapy was reduced by an average of 21 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . the reductions of cmrglu in 8 patients were correlated with total doses of both it-mtx ( r = 0.717 ; p less than 0.05 ) and systemic hd-mtx ( r = 0.784 ; p less than 0.05 ) . cmrglu of the cerebral cortex , especially the frontal and occipital cortex , was reduced more noticeably than that of the basal ganglia and white matter . we suggest that the measurement of changes in rcmrglu after hd-mtx therapy is useful for detecting accumulated mtx neurotoxicity . 
photodynamic therapy with chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine . to study the vascular effects of a new photosensitizing agent independent of the influence of tumor growth , a cutaneous wound model was used . six-week-old harlan-sprague-dawley " fuzzy " rats were surgically wounded in a standard fashion . the animals were then divided into three groups : the first group received chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine only , the second group was treated with light only , and a third group was treated with both chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine and light . photodynamic therapy with chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine had a direct effect on the neovasculature of a healing wound . the vasodilatation that was seen in the wound neovasculature that occurred 12 hours after the completion of chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine-photodynamic therapy may have indicated a therapeutic " window " at which other therapies can be employed to improve clinical efficacy . 
photodynamic therapy in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . photodynamic therapy is an experimental modality for tumor treatment based on the combined action of the tumor-localizing agent , ie , hematoporphyrin derivative , and red light . from 1985 through 1989 , 26 patients were treated using hematoporphyrin-derived drugs and 630-nm light delivered by a tunable dye laser . all patients had biopsy-proved squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck , and they had either failed the traditional treatment modalities or refused conventional therapies . histological complete responses were achieved in 20 ( 77 % ) of 26 patients and partial responses in 5 ( 19 % ) of 26 patients for periods up to 48 months . only minimal toxic reaction was noted in the group . as a guide to treatment planning for a patient group with large tumors , we used an optical dosimetry model based on tissue optics . the rate of complete responses to this treatment was 8 ( 73 % ) of 11 . our data indicate that photodynamic therapy is capable of inducing significant clinical and histological responses in the majority of those treated , and in some patients a prolonged response is produced . in certain select head and neck malignancies , photodynamic therapy has an important role as a treatment modality . 
leiomyosarcoma of the sinonasal tract . a clinicopathologic study of nine cases . the clinicopathologic features of nine cases of sinonasal tract leiomyosarcoma ( sntl ) referred to the armed forces institute of pathology , washington , dc , during the period from 1970 through 1988 are described . this report represents the largest study to date on sntl , and our results are compared with the 21 previously reported cases of sntl . of the nine cases described , patients ranged in age from 22 to 86 years ( mean , 55 years ) . the most frequent clinical presentation was nasal obstruction unilaterally . the neoplasms were limited solely to the nasal cavity in four cases ( 44 % ) and involved both the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses in the remaining five cases . light microscopic , immunocytochemical , and ultrastructural features served to characterize these tumors as malignant neoplasms of smooth-muscle origin . in contrast with previous studies , immunocytochemistry was employed to differentiate sntl from other spindle cell malignancies of the region , using newly available monoclonal antibodies to smooth-muscle antigens . treatment was surgical . radiotherapy or chemotherapy did not appear to affect the progression of the disease . furthermore , no relationship was found between the aggressiveness of sntl and morphologic parameters ( eg , mitotic count and tumor size ) . instead , prognosis was dependent on the distribution of disease at presentation . of all 30 patients with sntl described to date , 10 had the neoplasm confined solely to the nasal cavity . the 10 neoplasms did not recur . we conclude that sntl may best be regarded as a locally aggressive neoplasm with only limited metastatic potential and that it could be curable by complete surgical excision . 
flow cytometric dna content of adenoid cystic carcinoma of submandibular gland . correlation of histologic features and prognosis . flow cytometric analysis of nuclear dna content was performed in 26 adenoid cystic carcinomas of the submandibular gland using archived , paraffin-embedded tissues . the dna content was compared with multiple histologic parameters and clinical course . ten carcinomas ( 38 % ) were aneuploid and 16 ( 62 % ) diploid . aneuploid carcinomas demonstrated a higher frequency of solid cytoarchitecture , lymph node metastases , and advanced clinical stage , as compared with diploid carcinomas . other histologic features predicting aggressive clinical behavior also correlated with abnormal dna content and included invasion of nerves larger than 0.25 mm and intravascular extension . our data suggest that dna content analysis can be an effective objective parameter in the clinicopathologic assessment of adenoid cystic carcinoma . 
improving diagnostic accuracy of cervical metastases with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging . elective neck dissection in patients with head and neck cancer continues to be controversial . the management of these patients would be greatly facilitated by improvements in predicting cervical metastases . recent investigations have suggested that computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are more sensitive in detecting cervical metastases than physical examination . the department of otolaryngology at the ohio state university hospitals , columbus , undertook a prospective study to compare the preoperative sensitivities of physical examination , computed tomography , and magnetic resonance imaging with pathologic findings in 27 patients undergoing neck dissections for head and neck cancer . the results indicate that computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging were more sensitive ( 84 % and 92 % , respectively ) than physical examination ( 75 % ) , although the results did not achieve statistical significance . the sensitivity of combined computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging was 90 % . 
the in vivo biologic effect of interleukin 2 and interferon alfa on natural immunity in patients with head and neck cancer . given the association of deficient natural immunity with the risk of metastatic disease , the ability to activate natural killer cell function may have a therapeutic significance . the effect of continuous infusion of interleukin 2 plus intramuscular interferon alfa on natural immune status was , therefore , analyzed in eight patients with head and neck cancer . also evaluated was the effect of interleukin 2-interferon alfa therapy on lymphokine-activated killer cell activity as well as total lymphocyte count , percent of lymphocyte subsets , and levels of both circulating immune complexes and antibody classes . both the percent and absolute number of natural killer cells ( ie , cd56 + cd3 - lymphocytes ) within peripheral blood as well as natural killer cell activity against k562 targets increased significantly with treatment . the remaining immune parameters were not significantly altered . the demonstrated capacity to modulate natural immune function supports the potential use of interleukin 2-containing regimens as a preventive measure against metastatic disease in patients with head and neck cancer . 
metastasizing pleomorphic adenoma of the nasal septum . pleomorphic adenoma is the most common benign tumor of glandular tissue occurring in the head and neck region . there have been several reports of metastasis of this benign-appearing tumor from the salivary glands to distant sites , suggesting hematogenous spread and implantation . although occurrence of pleomorphic adenoma on the nasal septum has been described , to our knowledge this is the first reported case of recurrent septal pleomorphic adenoma with histologically benign tissue in an enlarged metastatic ipsilateral submandibular lymph node , suggesting lymphatic spread . the literature concerning the subject is reviewed . wide septal excision and modified neck dissection is the recommended treatment . 
chondrosarcoma of the larynx . diagnosis with magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography . chondrosarcomas are the most common sarcomas of the larynx . they are generally slow-growing lesions with insidious onset of symptoms . we are presenting a case of chondrosarcoma that recurred 10 years after excision of a presumed chondroma . computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) scans were performed . both studies delineated the lesion nicely . to the best of our knowledge , this is the first report on mri characteristics of chondrosarcoma of the larynx . a review of the literature regarding the use of computed tomography in the management of chondrosarcoma is presented . the mri characteristics are discussed and the two scanning modalities are compared . computed tomography is an excellent study in its ability to demonstrate the extent of the lesion within the laryngeal skeleton . furthermore , it is more highly sensitive than plain roentgenograms in the detection of calcifications that are highly suggestive of chondrosarcoma . alternatively , mri can also demonstrate the lesion within the larynx but it has the added advantage of superior contrast resolution of the tumor and paralaryngeal tissues . when the three-dimensional imaging capacity of mri is considered as well , mri seems to be the superior study . 
reliability of colposcopy and directed punch biopsy a group of 118 women underwent laser cone biopsy . data were collected routinely on proforma case notes and entered into a computerized database . the histology of the cone biopsies was compared with that of previous , colposcopically directed punch biopsies , with the cytology of smears taken in the clinic and with the colposcopic diagnosis . the punch biopsy had a 54 % false negative rate and neither of the two microinvasive carcinomas biopsied in this way were detected by the biopsy . ten of 24 women with negative punch biopsies had cin iii in the cone . when the punch biopsy showed cin ii or worse , the cone biopsy confirmed the presence of cin in 86 % . there was some evidence of false negative cone biopsies . the data suggest that management should not be based solely upon the punch biopsy result but should include consideration of the cytology and colposcopy findings . excisional methods of treatment are more likely to reveal early invasion and adenocarcinoma-in-situ . 
the management of primary fallopian tube carcinoma . the outcome of 30 patients with primary fallopian tube carcinoma is described . treatment varied over the 22 year period of accrual and included combinations of surgery , radiotherapy and chemotherapy . there was an apparent increase in stage at treatment with time which was probably related to more precise staging at laparotomy and the greater use of computerized tomography . the median survival for all patients was 28 months and the 5-year survival was 18 % . ten patients received postoperative chemotherapy for residual disease with an overall response rate of 80 % and median progression-free and overall survival times of 14 and 21 months respectively . the pattern of relapse was similar to that seen in ovarian carcinoma , with all but one patient having the pelvis or abdomen as the main site of recurrence . primary fallopian tube carcinoma has a response to treatment and a tumour biology similar to that of ovarian carcinoma . it is recommended that the management of this uncommon malignancy should continue to be along the lines of ovarian carcinoma , with initial treatment by cytoreductive surgery followed by chemotherapy or radiotherapy for residual disease . 
interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) is an intermediate in il-1-induced proliferation of leukemic human megakaryoblasts . we have examined the in vitro effects of recombinant human ( rh ) interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) on the growth of purified megakaryoblasts obtained from patients with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia . we demonstrate that both il-1 alpha and il-1 beta treatment of these cells led to stimulation of dna synthesis ( as shown by increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation up to 35-fold ) and also resulted in colony formation of leukemic megakaryoblasts . however , the stimulatory effect of il-1 was dependent on endogenous production of il-6 , because addition of neutralizing monoclonal antibody ( moab ) to il-6 abrogated the stimulatory activity of il-1 . in contrast , neutralizing moabs to granulocyte ( g ) - colony stimulating factor ( csf ) , granulocyte-macrophage ( gm ) - csf , and macrophage ( m ) - csf failed to counteract the growth-enhancing effects of il-1 . leukemic megakaryoblasts accumulated il-6 mrna and released il-6 protein into their culture supernatant when exposed to rh il-1 but failed to disclose transcripts for g - , gm - , and m-csf under these conditions . analysis of il-6 receptor ( il-6r ) transcript levels demonstrated that megakaryoblasts constitutively expressed il-6r mrna and that these transcripts are down-regulated to undetectable levels upon exposure to il-1 and il-6 . increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation by megakaryoblasts could be duplicated by exogenous il-6 that could be blocked by neutralizing moab to il-6 . in conclusion , our results suggest that leukemic megakaryoblasts could produce and secrete il-6 , and express il-6r , and that the growth-enhancing effect of il-1 on these cells is indirect , via production of il-6 by leukemic cells . 
induction of in vitro graft-versus-leukemia activity following bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia . we studied the in vitro effects of lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells from the peripheral blood of chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) patients after allogeneic and syngeneic bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . lak cells were generated by incubating peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients post-bmt with recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) ( 500 u/ml ) in 10 % ab serum for 7 days . they were phenotyped and tested for activity in a standard 4-hour 51cr release assay ( n = 37 ) and in a cfu-gm assay ( n = 24 ) . we found that the lak cells were mainly activated natural killer cells , but some were cd3 + t cells . in the 51cr release assay lak cells from 20 of 33 ( 61 % ) allogeneic and 2 of 4 syngeneic recipients killed recipient cml cells and in 22 of 37 ( 60 % ) cases also killed the hla disparate cml cells . in the cfu-gm assay the lak cells incubated together with the cml cells in liquid culture before plating inhibited ( p less than .05 ) colony growth in 16 of 22 allogeneic and 2 of 2 syngeneic recipients . cell-cell contact was necessary for optimal effect . there was little or no inhibition of proliferation of donor marrow cfu-gm . this in vitro graft-versus-leukemia ( gvl ) effect could also be demonstrated after lak effectors were depleted of cd3 + t cells . it was inducible in recipients of both t cell-depleted and t cell-replete donor marrow and in recipients with or without graft-versus-host disease . these results suggest that a major histocompatibility complex-unrestricted gvl effect is inducible following allogeneic and syngeneic bmt . the use of il-2 / lak cells after bmt could reduce the risk of relapse . 
deletion of the human retinoblastoma gene in primary leukemias . as an initial step in evaluating the role of tumor suppressor genes in leukemogenesis , we surveyed primary leukemia cells from 130 patients for possible deletion of the retinoblastoma susceptibility ( rb ) gene by southern blot analysis . two of them clearly showed homozygous deletion of rb alleles . the first patient was a pre-b acute lymphoid leukemia ( all ) associated with a cytogenetic translocation : t ( 14 ; 16 ) ( q24 ; q22 ) . the deletion was located at the 3 ' portion of the rb gene , very close to the site of rb gene deletion recently identified in an all cell line . the absence of rb110 protein was further confirmed by western blot analysis . the second patient was a chronic myelomonocytic leukemia ( cmmol ) , terminated in acute blastic transformation . deletion of the 5 ' portion of rb gene was found in leukemic cells in the chronic stage . the results indicated that inactivation of the rb gene occurred in certain cases of leukemia . its significance warrants further study . 
expression of p-glycoprotein in adult t-cell leukemia cells . we have examined the expression of p-glycoprotein ( p-gp ) in adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) samples from 25 patients . based on immunoblotting with a monoclonal antibody against p-gp , c219 , 8 of 20 atl patients were p-gp positive at the initial presentation . all 6 patients at the relapsed stage were p-gp positive , and refractory to chemotherapy . the expression of mdr1 mrna in p-gp-positive atl cells was increased at the relapsed stage of one patient . p-gp of this patient was photolabeled with [ 3h ] azidopine and the labeling was inhibited with nimodipine , vinblastine and progesterone . these results suggest that p-gp expressed in atl cells from patients at relapsed stage has the same binding site ( s ) for the drugs as that in multidrug resistant cells , and is correlated with the refractory nature of the cells to chemotherapy . 
association of bcl-1 rearrangements with lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation . previous studies using classical cytogenetics have demonstrated the presence of the t ( 11 ; 14 ) ( q13 ; q32 ) chromosomal translocation in some cases of lymphocytic lymphoma of intermediate differentiation ( idl ) , a distinct type of low grade b-cell lymphoma . this finding suggested that the bcl-1 region ( located at band q13 of chromosome 11 ) might be involved in this neoplasm . using a genomic probe from the major breakpoint area of the bcl-1 locus , we identified rearrangements of the bcl-1 region in 10 of 19 cases , 2 of which comigrated with a rearranged allele of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene joining region . in contrast , bcl-1 rearrangements were not found in other types of low grade b-cell lymphoma , specifically in 36 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma ( cll/sll ) and 27 cases of follicular lymphoma ( fl ) . to further assess the molecular pathology of idl , we analyzed these cases for rearrangements of the bcl-2 proto-oncogene , which is associated primarily with follicular lymphomas . none of the 19 cases of idl had rearrangements . furthermore , none of the 36 cases of cll/sll showed bcl-2 rearrangements , whereas , as expected , 21 of 27 cases of fl had rearrangements of the bcl-2 locus . our findings demonstrate an association between a rearranged bcl-1 region with approximately 50 % of idls and suggest that abnormalities of this locus may be important in the pathogenesis of idl . 
psychological outcomes of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer outside a clinical trial objectives -- to assess outside a clinical trial the psychological outcome of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer who underwent either mastectomy or breast conservation surgery depending on the surgeon 's opinion or the patient 's choice . to determine whether the extent of psychiatric morbidity reported in women who underwent breast conservation surgery was associated with their participation in a randomised clinical trial . design -- prospective , multicentre study capitalising on individual and motivational differences among patients and the different management policies among surgeons for treating patients with early breast cancer . setting -- 12 district general hospitals , three london teaching hospitals , and four private hospitals . patients -- 269 women under 75 with a probable diagnosis of stage i or ii breast cancer who were referred to 22 different surgeons . interventions -- surgery and radiotherapy or adjuvant chemotherapy , or both , depending on the individual surgeon 's stated preferences for managing early breast cancer . main outcome measures -- anxiety and depression as assessed by standard methods two weeks , three months , and 12 months after surgery . results -- of the 269 women , 31 were treated by surgeons who favoured mastectomy , 120 by surgeons who favoured breast conservation , and 118 by surgeons who offered a choice of treatment . sixty two of the women treated by surgeons who offered a choice were eligible to choose their surgery , and 43 of these chose breast conserving surgery . the incidences of anxiety , depression , and sexual dysfunction were high in all treatment groups . there were no significant differences in the incidences of anxiety and depression between women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy . a significant effect of surgeon type on the incidence of depression was observed , with patients treated by surgeons who offered a choice showing less depression than those treated by other surgeons ( p = 0.06 ) . there was no significant difference in psychiatric morbidity between women treated by surgeons who offered a choice who were eligible to choose their treatment and those in the same group who were not able to choose . most of the women ( 159/244 ) gave fear of cancer as their primary fear rather than fear of losing a breast . the overall incidences of psychiatric morbidity in women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy were similar to those found in the cancer research campaign breast conservation study . at 12 months 28 % of women who underwent mastectomy in the present study were anxious compared with 26 % in the earlier study , and 27 % of women in the present study who underwent lumpectomy were anxious compared with 31 % in the earlier study . in both the present and earlier study 21 % of women who underwent mastectomy were depressed , and 19 % of women who underwent lumpectomy in the present study were depressed compared with 27 % in the earlier study . ) conclusions -- there is still no evidence that women with early breast cancer who undergo breast conservation surgery have less psychiatric morbidity after treatment than those who undergo mastectomy . women who surrender autonomy for decision making by agreeing to participate in randomised clinical trials do not experience any different psychological , sexual , or social problems from those women who are treated for breast cancer outside a clinical trial . 
chronic anaemia , hyperbaric oxygen and tumour radiosensitivity . anaemia is an important factor in the response of some human tumours to radiotherapy . the outcome is also influenced by whether the treatment is given in air or high pressure oxygen ( hpo ) . the present study examined the relationship between anaemia and tumour response to radiation given in air or hpo in c3h mice transplanted with a mammary adenocarcinoma using a growth delay assay to assess the radiation response . chronic anaemia was induced by the use of a low iron diet and was characterized by a significant reduction in host haematocrit and whole blood viscosity . in addition , anaemia was associated with a right shift in the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve and an increase in the volume doubling time of the tumour ; but there was no change in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red cells . radiation studies with these anaemic mice demonstrated that the tumour radiosensitivity was decreased when treatment was given in air . hpo was successful in overcoming the increased radioresistance associated with anaemia . this result suggested that tumours grown in anaemic mice have a higher hypoxic fraction than those grown in control mice . changes in host physiology with chronic anaemia may contribute to the benefit seen with hpo but such alterations per se may be inadequate to maintain tumour oxygenation when treatment is given in air . 
lipiodol computerized tomography : how sensitive and specific is the technique in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma ? computerized tomography ( ct ) following the intra-arterial injection of lipiodol ( lipiodol-ct ) was performed on 60 patients suspected of having a hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) . four main patterns of uptake of the lipiodol within the liver were seen on ct . of the 14 well circumscribed lesions with dense homogeneous uptake of lipiodol , 13 were confirmed to be hccs . of the 25 lesions with dense patchy uptake of lipiodol at the periphery and/or in the centre , 19 were confirmed to be hccs . in 18 patients , in whom only ill defined faint patchy uptake of lipiodol was present in the liver , or in whom no hepatic uptake was present at all , only one patient was found later to have an hcc . of the three hypodense lesions in the liver with no lipiodol uptake , one was found to be necrotic hcc , one a cholangiocarcinoma and one a regenerative nodule . in the diagnosis of hcc , lipiodol-ct had an overall sensitivity of 97.1 % , an accuracy of 88.3 % and a specificity of 76.9 % . of the 34 patients with hcc , only 23 were solitary at diagnosis . the size of the hccs ranged from 0.8 cm to 11 cm in diameter with the median size at 2.2 cm . eleven of 34 hccs ( 32.3 % ) were resectable . we conclude that , as part of a screening programme for high risk patients . lipiodol-ct is useful in the early detection of hccs . the technique also plays an important role in determining whether the tumour should be resected or managed with chemotherapy . by detecting hccs while still small , the resectability rate can also be improved . 
choroid plexus cysts and chromosomal defects during a 4-year period , 83 pregnant women with fetal choroid plexus cysts were investigated in our unit . abnormal karyotypes were found in 20 fetuses , including trisomy 18 ( n = 16 ) , trisomy 13 ( n = 1 ) , triploidy ( n = 1 ) and translocation down 's syndrome ( n = 2 ) . all fetuses with chromosomal defects had structural malformations in addition to the choroid plexus cysts . 
clinical management of port-wine stain in infants and young children using the flashlamp-pulsed dye laser . the flashlamp-pulsed dye laser ( flpdl ) at 585 nm , a wavelength well absorbed by oxyhemoglobin , causes highly selective vascular injury . in addition , the 450 microsecond pulse duration produced by this laser approximates the thermal relaxation time for dermal blood vessels thereby confining the energy to the target . this new laser effects excellent lightening of port-wine stain ( pws ) in infants and young children without the adverse complications of hypertrophic scarring , permanent pigmentation abnormality , or textural changes , complications often seen with conventional laser systems . the flpdl now permits treatment of this patient population expected to gain the most benefit from early laser therapy in a much safer manner , before the psychological complications of being a " marked " person develop . the purpose of this report is to : ( 1 ) describe the theoretical considerations behind achieving selective removal of pws that can be understood and used by a nonsurgically-oriented practitioner ; and ( 2 ) describe the practical application of the device used in the clinical management of infants and young children . 
predictive value of congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium as a clinical marker for familial adenomatous polyposis . one hundred forty-eight members of 53 kindreds with familial adenomatous polyposis ( fap ) were examined for congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium ( chrpe ) and extracolonic manifestations ( ecm ) to assess the value of chrpe as a predictive marker for fap . based on eye examination results , the families were divided into 2 groups . in a first group of 34 families , all 61 members diagnosed as having polyps and 13 of the 33 patients at risk had 4 or more lesions distributed in both eyes . by contrast , in a second group of 18 families , all 32 polyposis patients and all 18 members at risk had less than 4 lesions . extra-colonic manifestations were present in 26 of 34 families in the first group and in 11 of 18 families in the second group . data on one family with ambiguous ancestry were reviewed separately . the existence of 4 or more chrpe lesions distributed in both eyes seems to be a congenital marker for fap , present in 65.4 percent of families . when present in a family : 1 ) it is found in all diagnosed patients in that family , 2 ) can therefore be considered predictive for the development of polyps in other family members who carry the trait , and 3 ) if confirmed by longer follow-up , may possibly preclude members without the trait from further evaluation and surveillance . 
effects of preoperative radiotherapy on rectal cancer . preliminary report on combining radiation with intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine . between 1976 and 1983 , 61 patients with advanced rectal cancer underwent miles ' operation at the authors ' institution . all lesions were located 10 cm or less from the anal verge . of these patients , 25 were treated by surgery alone and 36 were given preoperative radiotherapy . the total dose was 42.6 gy , ( 30.6 gy [ 1.8 gy/fr x 5/week ] ) delivered to the entire pelvis plus an additional 12 gy ( 3.0 gy/fr x 4/week ) delivered to the primary tumor . of 36 patients , 21 were administered intratumor injections of peplomycin and bromodeoxyuridine at the time of boost radiation and 15 were treated without intratumor injections . during the follow-up period ( 3 to 9 years ) , in the groups of patients who underwent radiation , there was only one local failure ( 2.8 percent ) . in contrast , in the group of patients treated by surgery alone , eight local failures occurred ( 32 percent ) . the intratumor injection significantly enhanced the effect of radiation on tumor regression . the incidence of positive lymph nodes was higher in patients in the surgery alone group than it was in the groups treated with radiation . there was no difference in the rate of distant metastasis among the three treatment groups . the five-year survival rate for the radiation with intratumor injection group , radiation alone group , and surgery alone group , was 77.8 , 69.2 , and 56.0 percent , respectively . no severe complication was experienced . 
erythrocyte stearic acid desaturation in patients with colorectal carcinoma . the erythrocyte stearic : oleic acid ratio ( saturation index ) was investigated as a means of differentiating between control subjects ( n = 146 ) and patients with benign ( n = 48 ) and malignant ( n = 117 ) colorectal disease and patients undergoing postoperative follow-up after curative resection ( n = 49 ) . erythrocyte fatty acid profiles were determined by gas liquid chromatography . neither age , sex , dukes ' stage , nor degree of differentiation of the tumors had a significant effect on the erythrocyte saturation index . the erythrocyte saturation index was lower in patients with primary and recurrent colorectal cancer compared with control subjects and patients with inflammatory bowel disease or benign colonic polyps ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the erythrocyte saturation index was not found to be useful in the postoperative follow-up of these patients . using both saturation index and age as a means of differentiating between patients with primary colorectal cancer and control subjects gave a sensitivity of 67 percent and a specificity of 81 percent . 
nitrite from inflammatory cells -- a cancer risk factor in ulcerative colitis ? elevated levels of luminal nitrite and a lowered luminal ph were found in 77 percent of patients with acute ulcerative colitis . no luminal nitrite was found in healthy control subjects . nitrites are a secretory product of activated macrophages and neutrophils of the lamina propria , whereas the lowered luminal ph is due to diminished bicarbonate formation by impaired colonocytes . a hypothesis is put forward that nitrites , lowered ph , and bacterial amines are conducive to formation of carcinogenic n-nitroso compounds , which reflect a cancer risk in patients with ulcerative colitis dependent on the type and extent of inflammatory cell activation as well as metabolic impairment of colonic epithelial cells . 
passage of a colon ' cast ' after anoabdominal rectal resection . report of a case . the authors report a case of the passage of a total colonic j-pouch " cast " per anus after anoabdominal rectal resection and colonic j-pouch-anal anastomosis . this occurred without development of cuff abscess and was not due to occlusion of the inferior mesenteric artery . this was successfully treated , with preservation of anal function , with resection of the colonic j-pouch by transanal approach . 
characterization in vitro of a human tumor necrosis factor-binding protein . a soluble form of a tumor necrosis factor receptor . tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) is a pleiotropic mediator of inflammatory responses . a cysteine-rich , highly glycosylated 30-kd tnf-binding protein ( tnf-bp ) purified from urine may have a role in regulation because it protects in vitro against the biological effects of tnf . the cytotoxic effect of tnf on the fibrosarcoma cell line wehi 164 was inhibited by 50 % at a 10-fold excess of tnf-bp . the binding of tnf to the receptor was partially reversed after the addition of tnf-bp . results from biosynthetic labeling of cells with 35s-cysteine followed by immunoprecipitation with anti-tnf-bp indicated that tnf-bp is formed and released at the cell surface by cleavage because no corresponding cellular polypeptide was observed . a cellular 60-kd polypeptide , which was immunoprecipitated with anti-tnf-bp , may correspond to the transmembrane tnf-receptor molecule and be the precursor of tnf-bp . thus , tnf-bp appears to be a soluble form of a transmembrane tnf-receptor . moreover our results demonstrate that the production of tnf-bp is increased when the tnf receptor is downregulated in cells by treatment with tnf or by activation of protein kinase c with phorbol esters . tnf-bp may be an important agent that blocks harmful effects of tnf , and , therefore , useful in clinical applications . 
whole-body lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in cachectic patients with esophageal cancer . whole-body lipolytic rates and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling ( reesterification of fatty acids released during lipolysis ) were measured with stable isotopic tracers in the basal state and during beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol infusion in five cachectic patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus , five cachectic cancer-free , nutritionally-matched control patients , and 10 healthy volunteers . resting energy expenditure and plasma catecholamines were normal in all three groups . the basal rate of glycerol appearance in blood in the patients with cancer ( 2.96 + / - 0.45 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) was similar to that in the nutritionally matched controls ( 3.07 + / - 0.28 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) , but 48 % greater than in the normal-weight volunteers ( 2.00 + / - 0.16 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) ( p = 0.028 ) . the antilipolytic effect of propranolol and the rate of triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in the patients with cancer were also similar in the cachectic control group and approximately 50 % greater than in the normal-weight volunteers , but the differences were not statistically significant because of the variability in the data . we conclude that the increase in lipolysis and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling in " unstressed " cachectic patients with esophageal cancer is due to alterations in their nutritional status rather than the presence of tumor itself . increased beta-adrenergic activity may be an important contributor to the stimulation of lipolysis . 
potent toxicity of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine toward human monocytes in vitro and in vivo . a novel approach to immunosuppressive therapy . lymphoid cells were thought to be uniquely susceptible to excess 2 ' - deoxyadenosine ( dado ) , when exposed to inhibitors of adenosine deaminase ( ada ) . however , we now find that human monocytes are as sensitive as lymphocytes to dado or to the ada-resistant congener 2-chloro-2 ' - deoxyadenosine ( cldado ) . monocytes exposed in vitro to cldado , or to dado plus deoxycoformycin rapidly developed dna strand breaks . both the dna damage and the toxicity of cldado or dado toward monocytes were blocked by deoxycytidine , but not by inhibitors of poly ( adp-ribose ) polymerase . a partial decrease in rna synthesis and a gradual decline of cellular nad were early biochemical events associated with monocyte dna damage . low cldado concentrations ( 5-20 nm ) inhibited monocyte phagocytosis and reduced the release of interleukin 6 . higher cldado concentrations led to a dose - and time-dependent loss of monocyte viability . circulating monocytes disappeared within 1 wk in patients with cutaneous t cell lymphoma or with rheumatoid arthritis during continuous cldado infusion . the marked sensitivity of human monocyte function and survival to cldado in vitro , together with the monocyte depletion in patients receiving cldado chemotherapy , suggests that cldado or other dado analogues offer a novel therapeutic strategy for chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases characterized by inappropriate monocyte deployment or function . 
elevated insulin receptor content in human breast cancer . the growth of breast cancer cells is under the regulation of hormones , growth factors , and their receptors . in the present study , we have employed a new , sensitive , and specific radioimmunoassay for the direct measurement of insulin receptors in surgical specimens of breast cancers . in 159 specimens the insulin receptor content was 6.15 + / - 3.69 ng/0 .1 mg protein . this value was more than sixfold higher than the mean value found in both 27 normal breast tissues obtained at total mastectomy ( 0.95 + 0.68 , p less than 0.001 ) and in six normal specimens obtained from reduction mammoplasty ( 0.84 + / - 0.78 , p less than 0.001 ) . the insulin receptor content in breast cancer tissues was also higher than in any normal tissue investigated including liver ( pezzino , v. , v. papa , v. trischitta , a. brunetti , p.a. goodman , m.k. treutelaar , j.a. williams , b.a. maddux , r. vigneri , and i.d. goldfine , 1989 . am . j. physiol . 257 : e451-457 ) . the insulin receptor in breast cancer retained its ability to both bind insulin and undergo insulin-induced tyrosine kinase activation . immunostaining of the specimens revealed that the insulin receptor was present in malignant epithelial cells , but was not detected in stromal and inflammatory cells . univariant analysis revealed that the insulin receptor content of the tumors correlated positively with tumor size ( p = 0.014 ) , histological grading ( p = 0.030 ) , and the estrogen receptor content ( p = 0.035 ) . there were no significant correlations between insulin receptor content and the age , body weight , menopausal status , and nodal involvement of the patients . these studies indicate , therefore , that the insulin receptor content is increased in breast cancers and raise the possibility that the insulin receptor may have a role in the biology of these tumors . 
epidermal growth factor regulates the in vitro sensitivity of human ovarian carcinoma cells to cisplatin . cisplatin ( ddp ) is the most effective drug for the treatment of human ovarian cancer , but the mechanisms that determine sensitivity to the cytotoxic action of ddp are not well understood . treatment of two human ovarian carcinoma cell lines with epidermal growth factor ( egf ) simultaneously increased sensitivity to ddp and caused a persistent change in morphology in the absence of any mitogenic effect . sensitization to ddp was shown to be dependent on both egf concentration and egf receptor number in c127 mouse fibroblasts expressing the human egf receptor after transfection with a pbpv plasmid construct containing the human egf receptor gene under control of the transferrin receptor 3 ' - inducible regulator . sensitization of human ovarian carcinoma cells to ddp was not blocked by inhibition of protein synthesis . egf did not enhance sensitivity to ddp or alter morphology in ddp-resistant human ovarian carcinoma cells despite the presence of functional egf receptors on these cells . these results showed that elements of the signal transduction pathway activated by egf determined cellular sensitivity to ddp , and that a ddp-resistant phenotype is associated with a defect in this signal transduction pathway . 
a phosphatase activity present in peripheral blood myeloid cells of chronic myelogenous leukemia patients but not normal individuals alters nuclear protein binding to transcriptional enhancers of interferon-inducible genes . cytoplasmic protein from peripheral blood myeloid cells of chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) patients altered the electrophoretic mobility of complexes formed between nuclear proteins and interferon-inducible transcriptional enhancers . immature myeloid marrow cells ( blasts and promyelocytes ) have a higher level of this activity than do mature myeloid marrow cells ( bands and polys ) . this activity , which is not detectable in the peripheral blood cells of normal individuals , is at least 50-fold higher in cml marrow blasts and promyelocytes than that found in marrow blasts and promyelocytes of normal individuals . this activity was inhibited by in vivo incubation of immature myeloid cells with the phosphatase inhibitor , sodium orthovanadate ( 0.2 mm ) , and by adding orthovanadate ( 20 mm ) directly to cytoplasmic proteins of myeloid cells . interferon-alpha ( 1,000 u/ml ) reduced the effects of the cml myeloid cell cytoplasmic protein on the electrophoretic mobility of nuclear protein-dna complexes . these data suggest that a unique phosphatase may be involved in the abnormalities in cml which are modulated by interferon-alpha . 
quality control practices in centralized tumor registries in north america . a survey of quality control practices was mailed to 73 central registries in the u.s. and canada . the response rate was 88 % , with respondents representing a wide range of registry characteristics and reporting strategies . while registries expressed different priorities in data use , 80 % of respondents felt quality control data were important in the identification of problems . the most common method of quality control was acceptance sampling ( used by 97 % of respondents ) , and took the form of visual review , recoding and edit checking . computer-based edit checks were almost universally used ( 95 % ) . process control methods of any sort were used by only 22 % of respondents with less than 4 % of registries reporting formal quantitative criteria . sixty-one percent of respondents reported conducting one or more designed studies ( e.g. reabstracting or casefinding studies ) but only 20 % of those made the results public . greater emphasis should be placed on development of quantitative process controls , experimental design of quality control studies , and formal analyses and reporting of study results . 
adverse mortality experience of a southwestern american indian community : overall death rates and underlying causes of death in pima indians . as part of an ongoing epidemiologic study , the death rate and causes of death during 1975 through 1984 were determined in pima indians who resided in the gila river indian community ( gric ) in 1965 and later . death certificates were available for 677 of the 681 deaths . in 78 % of the deaths , the underlying cause recorded on the death certificate agreed with the cause determined after review of all available relevant records . the age - and sex-adjusted average annual death rate for the gric population ( 1639/100 ,000 ) was 1.9 times ( 95 % ci 1.7-2 .0 ) the 1980 rate for the u.s. all races ( 878/100 ,000 ) . in pima males , whose death rate was substantially higher than that of pima females , the age-adjusted death rate was 2.3 times that in u.s. males , all races . moreover among males 25-34 years of age , the pima death rate was 6.6 times that for the u.s. all races . diseases of the heart and malignant neoplasms caused 59 % of u.s. deaths in 1980 , but only 19 % of gric deaths . by contrast , the age - and sex-adjusted mortality rate in the gric pima was 5.9 times the rate of the u.s. all races for accidents , 6.5 times for cirrhosis , 7.4 times for homicide , 4.3 times for suicide , and 11.9 times for diabetes . tuberculosis and coccidioidomycosis were important causes of death in the pima , for whom infectious diseases was the tenth leading cause of death . the findings indicate that programs to improve the adverse mortality experience of the gric population should emphasize factors related to fatal accidents , alcoholic cirrhosis , homicide , suicide , diabetes mellitus , and infectious diseases . young pimas , especially the males , should be the primary focus of such preventive efforts . these findings and recommendations probably apply to many native american populations . 
shortcut method to calculate the sample size in trials of screening for chronic disease . one of the first questions arising in the planning of a randomized trial to evaluate mortality reduction by screening concerns the sample size of the trial required to detect an expected mortality reduction in the study group for given significance level alpha , and power 1 - beta . if estimates exist of the underlying average annual incidence rate of the disease ra and the annual mortality rate delta a or survival data for patients in the population under consideration before screening started , then a simple formula for the probability of dying from the disease within t years after entry into the trial can be given for the control group . standard formulas may then be used for sample size calculations in randomized trials , which compare the risk of death from the disease in the control and the study group accrued at t years after entry . a simple correction for loss of follow-up , due to mortality from other causes or , for instance , migration is possible . 
atheroemboli to the lower urinary tract : a marker of atherosclerotic vascular disease -- a case report . atheroemboli to the lower genitourinary tract may serve as a marker for disseminated atheroembolic disease , a highly lethal condition . a case presentation and review of our institional experience is presented . 
family cancer syndrome : a study of the kindred of a man with osteogenic sarcoma of the mandible . several familial cancer syndromes have been identified . the syndrome of sarcomas , breast cancer and other neoplasms , known as li-fraumeni syndrome , is characterized by several different neoplasms presenting at young ages with autosomal dominant transmission and a high incidence of second primaries . in this paper , we studied six generations ( 51 people ) of the family of a 24-year-old man with osteogenic sarcoma of the mandible . twelve malignancies in 11 people , including several rare tumors , were revealed . mean age of presentation was 24 years old . nine of the 11 patients died of disease . one developed a second primary . two tumors presented in the head and neck . transmission was autosomal dominant . the karyotypes of two family members were normal . identification of li-fraumeni syndrome in a family is important in determining appropriate follow-up for the patient and family . such families are models for studying carcinogenesis . 
chondrosarcoma of the head and neck . chondrosarcoma is a malignancy rarely encountered in the head and neck . in an attempt to define this tumor 's characteristics and response to therapy , all cases of chondrosarcoma treated at the university of michigan over the past 25 years were retrospectively studied . fourteen cases originating in the nose and paranasal sinuses , mandible , temporal bone , and larynx were reviewed . aggressive surgical resection was the mainstay of treatment , and resulted in an overall survival of 70 % , with an average follow-up of 3.5 years . survival was highest in primary temporal bone lesions , and lowest in paranasal sinus lesions . unresectable lesions were not cured by other modalities . this study , therefore , continued to support the crucial role of wide surgical resection in the treatment of head and neck chondrosarcoma , but conservative resection , when needed to preserve important structures , has resulted in long-term survival . 
the melanocyte and melanoma . this paper reviewed some of the interesting biological aspects of melanocytes and their relationship to the nevus and to melanoma . it also proposed a rationale for " adequate " surgery in the management of melanoma according to level , depth , margins , and trends in treatment . these propositions were derived from an analysis of 995 cases of melanoma of the head and neck . 
a palmar dermatosis linked to occult carcinoma of the upper thorax , head and neck : bazex 's syndrome and tripe palm . an unusual , persistent , corregated-to-honeycombed thickening of the palms accompanied by tenderness around the fingernails was found to be a cutaneous marker for internal malignancy . this combination of signs and symptoms has been reported under two clinical entities : bazex 's syndrome and tripe palm . this paraneoplastic syndrome is of interest to head and neck surgeons due to the location of the primary tumor , the site of metastatic disease , and the ability to cure the cutaneous disease by surgical removal of the primary tumor . in our patient , a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung not detectable on chest x-ray presented as a cervical mass accompanied by cutaneous changes on the palms and fingernails . recognition of the relationship of the dermatologic changes to malignancy of a specific body region eventually led to the detection of the primary tumor . the characteristics of these paraneoplastic syndromes were reviewed in this report . 
the cancer prevention reminder system . the cancer prevention reminder system is a computer-based system designed to increase the delivery of periodic health maintenance procedures . the program provides printed reminders that identify patients ' overdue procedures , prints summary reports of the percentage of patients who are eligible and overdue for a procedure , and prints mailing labels for patients . we performed a randomized , controlled trial in which the effects of computer-based reminders were compared with those of two other interventions among residents in a university-based group practice . 
prophylaxis of aphakic cystoid macular edema without corticosteroids . a paired-comparison , placebo-controlled double-masked study . prior investigations have reported that topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) therapy prevents the development of postoperative angiographic signs of angiographic cystoid macular edema ( cme ) . however , these studies include concurrent use of corticosteroids . the current study reports therapeutic efficacy for ketorolac ophthalmic solution ( an nsaid ) in the prophylaxis of angiographic aphakic cme ( acme ) after cataract surgery without concurrent corticosteroids for the first time . fifty patients with bilateral cataracts were enrolled in this placebo-controlled , paired-comparison , double-masked study . eleven patients had evidence of angiographic acme on postoperative day 40 . two of these patients demonstrated bilateral acme , one patient had acme in the nsaid-treated eye , and eight patients demonstrated acme in the placebo-treated eye . this is a statistically significant difference favoring drug treatment . the signs of anterior ocular inflammation were greater in the eyes with acme . this study suggests prophylactic treatment of acme may be possible without the risks of concurrent corticosteroid toxicity . in addition , a higher incidence of acme in black patients ( 22 % ) is observed in this study than has been recognized previously . 
ki-67 immunostaining in uveal melanoma . the effect of pre-enucleation radiotherapy . the reactivity of 33 choroidal and ciliary body melanomas with monoclonal antibody ki-67 , which recognizes a proliferation associated nuclear antigen , has been assessed and compared with clinicopathologic parameters . in 23 cases , 8 gy irradiation was given 2 days before enucleation . nonirradiated melanomas had a significantly higher proliferation rate as defined by staining with monoclonal antibody ki-67 as compared with irradiated tumors ( p = 0.007 ) . similarly , a strong relationship was found between pre-enucleation irradiation and low mitotic activity ( p = 0.001 ) . there was no significant correlation between the presence of ki-67-positive nuclei and histologic classification , largest tumor diameter , localization of the tumor , age , sex , scleral invasion , pigmentation , and lymphocytic infiltration . the relevance of ki-67 immunohistochemistry for the assessment of the life prognosis of patients with uveal melanoma has to be studied prospectively . 
immunoblastic t-cell lymphoma presenting as an eyelid tumor . a 59-year-old white man presented with an ulcerating mass of the left upper eyelid of 6 months ' duration . a biopsy specimen of the tumor was diagnosed as an immunoblastic t-cell malignant lymphoma . the lesion completely regressed after 4000 cgy of cobalt-60 radiation therapy . in the ensuing 33 months , multiple , widespread skin nodules of the same neoplasm developed including a right upper eyelid tumor . to the authors ' knowledge , this is the first reported case of an immunoblastic t-cell lymphoma initially manifesting as an eyelid neoplasm . 
emergent signs of cancer . recognizing them early in the office or er . primary care physicians have a crucial role in recognition of potentially emergent conditions in patients with known or suspected cancer . this task presents a significant challenge because the initial manifestations of these conditions are usually nonspecific . in most cases , therapy is far more effective when diagnosis is made at the earliest possible point . thus , physicians should become familiar with conditions commonly seen in cancer patients , such as superior vena cava syndrome , malignant pericardial effusion , spinal-epidural metastasis , and altered mentation from brain metastases , metabolic encephalopathy , or hypoglycemia . 
585 nm for the treatment of port-wine stains . although the flashlamp-pulsed-dye laser has been successfully used for the treatment of port-wine stains ( pws ) at 577 nm , a number of adult patients had incomplete clearance of their birthmarks with this treatment modality because of residual vessels lying beyond the 0.75-mm penetration depth of 577-nm irradiation . fifteen adult patients , of whom nine were previously treated with limited success at 577 nm ( group a ) , and six untreated patients ( group b ) were included in the study . for the group a patients , treatment with 585 nm produced successful clearance of the birthmark . for the six patients in group b , parallel treatment of different sites of the same lesion coupled with skin biopsies and histologic examination revealed that a change in the wavelength from 577 to 585 nm allowed the laser light to penetrate from the midreticular dermis into the subcutaneous fat . this explained the clearance achieved at 585 nm and not at 577 nm . 
reasons why mastectomy patients do not have breast reconstruction . breast reconstruction after mastectomy is valuable , yet only a small percentage of eligible patients ever have reconstruction . little has been done to determine why so few patients proceed with reconstructive surgery . a homogeneous population of mastectomy patients , some of whom underwent breast reconstruction while others did not , were surveyed regarding their attitudes about breast reconstruction . a total of 245 women were surveyed . one-hundred and fifty-eight ( 64 percent ) responded , 71 of whom had been reconstructed while 87 had not . comparison of the responses of the two groups suggests factors that play a role in determining whether the mastectomy patient will accept or decline the option of breast reconstruction . considerations that made it less likely that a woman would pursue reconstruction included advanced age at the time of mastectomy , concern about complications from further surgery , uncertainty about outcome , and fear about the effect of reconstruction on future problems with breast cancer . marital status , receiving chemotherapy , or knowing a patient who had a bad result from reconstruction did not affect the decision . an awareness and understanding of these factors may be helpful to physicians in counseling patients and in increasing the number of women who enjoy the benefits of breast reconstruction . 
mammographic measurements before and after augmentation mammaplasty . thirty-five augmented women underwent mammography using both the standard implant-compression technique and , when possible , the implant-displacement technique ; all had preaugmentation film-screen mammography available for evaluation . the area of mammographically visualized breast tissue before and after augmentation mammaplasty was measured using a transparent grid . patients with subglandular implants had a mean decrease of 49 percent of measurable tissue area with compression mammography and a 39 percent decrease with displacement mammography . patients with submuscular implants had a 28 percent decrease in measurable tissue area with compression mammography and a 9 percent decrease with displacement mammography . anterior breast tissue was seen better with displacement mammography ; posterior breast tissue , with compression mammography . most patients had some degree of parenchymal scarring and lower image quality after augmentation . state-of-the-art mammography was not possible in most patients augmented with silicone-gel-filled implants . 
combined tensor fasciae latae musculocutaneous flap and sartorius musculocutaneous flap for the repair of wide defects of the lower leg . the tensor fasciae latae musculocutaneous flap has great advantages for reconstruction of the abdominal wall , but the medial border of its territory is limited to the thigh . in order to expand the territory , a combined tensor fasciae latae musculocutaneous flap and sartorius musculocutaneous flap was devised . this flap was successfully used to resurface a large defect in the lower leg as a distally based musculocutaneous flap . the advantages of this flap are its extremely large territory , the fact that total necrosis of the flap can not occur , and that as a proximally or distally pedicled flap it is suitable for large defects in the abdominal wall , lower leg , and gluteal region . 
metabolism of human gliomas : assessment with h-1 mr spectroscopy and f-18 fluorodeoxyglucose pet localized hydrogen-1 magnetic resonance ( mr ) spectroscopy and fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) positron emission tomography ( pet ) were employed to obtain metabolic information from intracranial gliomas . advantages and difficulties associated with comparison of results from the two modalities were realized . forty patients were studied with h-1 mr spectroscopy . mr signal intensities from lactate , n-acetylaspartate ( naa ) , choline , and creatine from a volume of interest containing the tumor and a contralateral volume were obtained and evaluated . naa signal intensities were generally decreased in the tumor spectra , and choline signal intensities were elevated . h-1 mr spectroscopy was unsuccessful in eight patients , and fdg pet scans were not obtained in four of the patients with successful mr spectroscopic examinations . lactate signal intensity was detected in 10 of the 28 patients who had successful h-1 mr spectroscopic and fdg pet studies . lactate signal intensities were observed in lesions shown at fdg pet to be hypermetabolic , as well as in lesions found to be hypometabolic . 
chemical shift imaging of human brain : axial , sagittal , and coronal p-31 metabolite images . multivoxel magnetic resonance ( mr ) spectroscopy and novel data analysis techniques were developed to obtain high-quality phosphorus-31 metabolite images from the human brain and to overlay each metabolite distribution directly onto corresponding hydrogen-1 mr images . the p-31 mr spectroscopic data were acquired by means of three-dimensional chemical shift imaging ( phase encoding in three spatial dimensions ) on a 1.5-t clinical instrument equipped with a specially designed quadrature p-31 birdcage coil constructed in the authors ' laboratory . axial , sagittal , and coronal metabolite images based on the area for any one of five peak regions ( phosphodiester ; phosphocreatine ; gamma , alpha , and beta adenosine triphosphate ) were generated from 8 x 8 x 8 or 12 x 12 x 8 csi arrays with voxel sizes of 27 cm3 and 12 cm3 , respectively . the positions of these images were aligned with anatomic features by means of the voxel-shifting capability of the fourier transform . direct overlays of these metabolite images on corresponding proton images demonstrated excellent correlation with anatomy , factors indicating the utility of this technique for viewing p-31 metabolite levels in all areas of the brain simultaneously . 
rhabdomyosarcomas in the head and neck : mr imaging evaluation . to determine the typical magnetic resonance ( mr ) signal intensity characteristics of rhabdomyosarcomas , short repetition time ( tr ) / short echo time ( te ) ( t1-weighted ) and long tr ( proton density and t2-weighted ) images of 13 patients with rhabdomyosarcomas of the head and neck were retrospectively reviewed . seven patients received gadopentetate dimeglumine injections . the most common mr appearance was that of a homogeneous mass , hyperintense to both muscle and fat on long tr/long te images and isointense or minimally hyperintense to muscle on short tr/short te images . all lesions of the patients who received gadopentetate dimeglumine enhanced markedly . two lesions had intratumoral hemorrhage , and six were markedly heterogeneous in signal intensity . similar mr signal intensity patterns have been described for lymphomas and nasopharyngeal carcinomas . the forte of mr imaging lies in its ability to delineate precisely the extent of the rhabdomyosarcoma . 
mucocele of the cystic duct remnant in eight liver transplant recipients : findings at cholangiography , ct , and us . the case histories and radiologic studies of eight liver transplant recipients who developed a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant were retrospectively evaluated . all patients had clinical and/or laboratory evidence of biliary obstruction or cholangitis from 2 weeks to 3.3 years following transplantation . cholangiographic , ultrasound ( us ) , and computed tomography ( ct ) images were available for review in eight , five , and four patients , respectively . cholangiograms demonstrated an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct in seven of eight patients . us and ct showed fairly well - to well-defined round fluid collections adjacent to the common hepatic duct in three and two patients , respectively . the findings of this study suggest that the detection at cholangiography of an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct appears to be specific for a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant . ct and us images may offer confirmatory evidence . 
colorectal tumors : an in vitro study of high-resolution mr imaging . to study the potential utility of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging in staging colorectal tumors , 15 resected colonic segments containing 17 elevated lesions were examined on a 1.5 - or 1.9-t superconductive mr system . the whole intestinal wall was apparent as three or five layers on images obtained with a short repetition time ( tr ) and short echo time ( te ) and as six or eight distinct layers , including the intestinal wall proper as well as an adherent mucus layer and an outer layer of pericolonic fat , on the long tr/te images . in cases of colonic carcinoma , mr images correlated well with the pathologic findings , including the macroscopic growth pattern , depth of mural invasion , and the presence of foci of calcific tumor necrosis and pools of extracellular mucin ( colloid ) . these features suggest that mr imaging may be valuable in the clinical evaluation of colorectal tumors . 
colonic stenoses : use of oral barium when retrograde flow is completely obstructed on barium enema studies . forty patients with complete obstruction to retrograde barium flow on barium enema examinations , without clinical or radiographic evidence of obstruction , were studied further with orally administered barium in the same session . all patients had undergone aborted double-contrast barium enema studies and had received antispasmodics intramuscularly before the examination . the authors describe the technique , as well as the clinical and radiologic findings , that allows the safe ingestion of oral barium in patients with stenotic lesions of the colon . in all patients , oral barium passed through the small bowel and the stenotic site in an average of 148 minutes , with no complications . in seven patients , there were synchronous lesions in the colon and small bowel , and the findings were determined better with oral barium studies in 19 patients . if a barium enema study is done and retrograde passage of barium is obstructed by a lesion in the left side of the colon , additional diagnostic information can be obtained by giving the patients oral barium . this practice is safe if precise criteria are applied . 
hepatic tumors : signal enhancement at doppler us after intravenous injection of a contrast agent . experiments were carried out to detect and establish the origin of doppler and echo signal enhancement in small vessels of the systemic circulation and of tumors after intravenous injection of a contrast agent . eight woodchucks ( marmota monax ) were studied ; each woodchuck had naturally occurring hepatocellular carcinoma . injections of 0.1-4 .0 ml of air-filled human serum albumin microspheres were administered into a hind limb or jugular vein . ultrasound ( us ) examination included transabdominal duplex scanning , color doppler imaging , placement of a doppler transducer on the exposed tumor , and surgical implantation of pulsed doppler cuffs . doppler signals were assessed by recording color doppler images and results of spectral analysis . while subjective echo level was unaffected within the tumors , dramatic doppler signal enhancement was recorded in both normal and tumor vessels . at optimum dose levels , a signal gain of approximately 10 db was recorded from the tumor . analysis showed that the echo enhancement was due to the presence of the contrast agent in branches of the hepatic artery . these results suggest that tumor detection may be enhanced by intravenous administration of a us contrast agent . 
receptor imaging : application to mr imaging of liver cancer . a new contrast agent for magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging , directed to asialoglycoprotein ( asg ) receptors on hepatocytes , was used for detection of liver cancer in rats . ultrasmall superparamagnetic ( mean size , 12 nm ) particles of iron oxide ( uspios ) were targeted to asg receptors by coating particles with arabinogalactan ( ag ) . liver t2 relaxation times decreased more effectively after a single intravenous administration of ag-uspio than after an equal dose of a conventional superparamagnetic liver mr contrast agent ( ami-25 ; mean size , 72 nm ) . receptor affinity studies demonstrated that receptor-mediated attachment and subsequent cellular endocytosis do not occur in primary malignant ( hepatocellular carcinoma ) or metastatic ( adenocarcinoma ) tumors , because the surface asg receptors are lost during malignant dedifferentiation . in vitro relaxation and in vivo mr imaging experiments of liver tumors show that targeting uspio to hepatocytes rather than to the mononuclear phagocytic system allows a considerable dose reduction , increases tumor-liver contrast , and potentially allows distinction of asg-positive ( benign hepatocellular ) and asg-negative ( malignant hepatocellular ) tumors . 
hilar malignancy : treatment with an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary stent . an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary endoprosthesis was used to treat 20 patients with hilar malignancy and isolated right and left intrahepatic ducts . in 12 patients , only one intrahepatic ductal system was drained ; in eight patients , both systems were drained . in five patients , both systems were drained through a single transhepatic track by arrangement of two stents in a t configuration . the initial technical success rate in placing the stents and achieving internal drainage was 100 % . complications necessitating further intervention occurred in two of the 20 patients . short-term clinical follow-up was available for 19 of the 20 patients . two months after stent insertion , two patients complained of persistent jaundice , two patients died without jaundice , and 15 patients were free of symptoms of biliary obstruction . a variety of geometric configurations are possible with this endoprosthesis . the relative merits of these stent arrangements are discussed , and a new technique for placing the stents in a t configuration is described . 
invasive papillary carcinoma of the breast : mammographic appearance . the mammographic findings in 18 patients with invasive papillary carcinoma were studied retrospectively . the mammograms of 10 patients showed a multinodular pattern , and seven patients had solitary nodules . one patient had an irregular , ill-defined mass in the retroareolar region . two patients were found to have carcinoma in the contralateral breast , and two patients had intraductal carcinoma adjacent to the invasive papillary carcinoma . the varied mammographic features that may occur with this rare breast malignancy are discussed . 
mixed form , diffusely scattered calcifications in breast cancer with apocrine features diffusely scattered calcifications visible with mammography are almost always benign . certain patterns , however , should arouse concern . for example , extensive comedocarcinoma is associated with large areas of mammographically visible calcium deposition . the authors identified 10 women in whom calcifications were visible throughout large volumes of breast tissue at mammography . the calcifications did not resemble those typical of extensive comedocarcinoma , yet they were associated with extensive breast cancer . their mammographic pattern was characterized by a strikingly wild , chaotic appearance with profuse deposition of calcium . as in many cancers , the particles were heterogeneous , but unlike in most carcinomas , many deposits had a typically benign morphology . histologic examination showed that even these typically benign calcifications were associated with malignant cells . the authors believe that the apocrine features displayed by many of the cancer cells in these 10 patients may explain the unusual profusion of calcium deposits . 
cystic rheumatoid arthritis : description of a nonerosive form . in a study of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , 9 % ( n = 70 ) were found to have a cystic form . at radiologic examination of these patients with cystic ra , the first abnormality seen consisted of periarticular intraosseous cysts without erosions . the cysts were distributed symmetrically , most often located at the proximal side of the joints and predominantly around the proximal interphalangeal , metacarpophalangeal , and wrist joints of the hands and the first interphalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints of the feet . computed tomographic scans showed the peripheral intraosseous location of the cysts . magnetic resonance images showed that the cysts may contain fluid , inflamed synovia , or both . cysts can be an important feature in the diagnosis of ra and a supplement to the criteria of the american rheumatism association . osteoporosis , joint-space narrowing , and joint destruction occurred less frequently in patients with cystic ra than in patients with classic ra . of the patients with cystic ra , 54 % were male , and 50 % were seronegative . this study is a supplement to and an enlargement on earlier descriptions of cyst predominance in ra . 
widespread inflammatory response to osteoblastoma : the flare phenomenon . a case of vertebral osteoblastoma caused a diffuse , reactive inflammatory infiltrate in two vertebrae , adjacent ribs , and the paraspinous soft tissues . the authors call this the flare phenomenon . on magnetic resonance images the diffuse inflammatory response caused a misleading appearance that simulated a malignant process ( lymphoma or ewing sarcoma ) . a computed tomographic myelogram was diagnostic . 
small cell lung cancer : staging with mr imaging . small cell lung cancer is an aggressive neoplasm ; metastases are detected in two-thirds of patients at diagnosis with use of conventional staging , which includes bilateral bone marrow biopsy , bone scintigraphy , and computed tomography ( ct ) of the head and abdomen . in 25 patients , small cell lung cancer was staged prospectively with both conventional staging and a magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging protocol that included 1.5-t mr imaging of the pelvis , abdomen , spine , and brain . according to conventional staging , 14 patients had extensive disease and 11 patients had limited disease ; according to staging with mr , 19 patients had extensive disease and six had limited disease . all metastatic disease sites seen with conventional staging were identified on mr images . mr images showed additional metastatic involvement in bone ( four patients ) and liver ( three patients ) not detected at conventional staging . a low-attenuation hepatic lesion on a ct scan was identified as a hemangioma on mr images . these preliminary data suggest that small cell lung cancer may be accurately staged with use of a single mr imaging study . 
small nodular lesions in the lung periphery : new approach to diagnosis with ct . to evaluate relationships between lesions in the lung periphery and surrounding structures , particularly vessels and bronchi , axial multiplanar reconstruction ( ampr ) computed tomography ( ct ) was used to study 26 patients who underwent surgical resection of pulmonary nodules less than 3 cm in diameter . findings at ampr ct , conventional ct , and digital radiographic tomography were compared with findings obtained at evaluation of the resected specimen with regard to the ability to display the relationships between vessels , bronchi , and lesions . ampr ct was significantly superior to conventional ct and digital radiographic tomography in detecting involvement of pulmonary vessels ( p less than .001 ) . involvement of pulmonary veins was seen in all lung cancers , whereas such involvement was seen in only one of eight nonneoplastic lesions . thus , involvement of pulmonary veins is strongly suggestive of malignancy . ampr ct permits three-dimensional visualization and morphologic assessment of pulmonary nodules . 
retroviral recombination and reverse transcription . recombination occurs at a high rate in retroviral replication , and its observation requires a virion containing two different rna molecules ( heterodimeric particles ) . analysis of retroviral recombinants formed after a single round of replication revealed that ( i ) the nonselected markers changed more frequently than expected from the rate of recombination of selected markers ; ( ii ) the transfer of the initially synthesized minus strand strong stop dna was either intramolecular or intermolecular ; ( iii ) the transfer of the first synthesized plus strand strong stop dna was always intramolecular ; and ( iv ) there was a strong correlation between the type of transfer of the minus strand strong stop dna and the number of template switches observed . these data suggest that retroviral recombination is ordered and occurs during the synthesis of both minus and plus strand dna . 
germ line p53 mutations in a familial syndrome of breast cancer , sarcomas , and other neoplasms familial cancer syndromes have helped to define the role of tumor suppressor genes in the development of cancer . the dominantly inherited li-fraumeni syndrome ( lfs ) is of particular interest because of the diversity of childhood and adult tumors that occur in affected individuals . the rarity and high mortality of lfs precluded formal linkage analysis . the alternative approach was to select the most plausible candidate gene . the tumor suppressor gene , p53 , was studied because of previous indications that this gene is inactivated in the sporadic ( nonfamilial ) forms of most cancers that are associated with lfs . germ line p53 mutations have been detected in all five lfs families analyzed . these mutations do not produce amounts of mutant p53 protein expected to exert a trans-dominant loss of function effect on wild-type p53 protein . the frequency of germ line p53 mutations can now be examined in additional families with lfs , and in other cancer patients and families with clinical features that might be attributed to the mutation . 
biopsy of the breast for mammographically detected lesions . we prospectively studied 718 women who underwent biopsy of the breast for suspicious , mammographically detected mammary lesions in an attempt to identify key clinical risk factors , as well as roentgenographic characteristics associated with the appearance of early carcinoma of the breast . patients with a benign outcome had an average age of 55 years versus 63 years for patients with carcinoma of the breast . seventy-six per cent of these patients had no previous history of mammary problems , 20 per cent had a positive family history for carcinoma of the breast , 58 per cent were premenopausal and 21 per cent had used birth control pills . except for age ( p less than 0.001 ) , the distribution of clinical risk factors was equal among patients with benign or malignant outcomes . suspicious mammographic findings included mass lesions ( 53 per cent ) , calcifications ( 36 per cent ) and the association of both ( 11 per cent ) . the predominant wolfe pattern on mammography was p1 ( 36 per cent ) . no relationship was observed between wolfe pattern and malignant conditions . in this group of patients , mammography was poorly specific ; however , the positive predictive value increased with age and is related to the age-specific prevalence of carcinoma of the breast . eight hundred and twenty-five lesions were removed . twenty-five per cent ( n = 203 ) of the specimens taken at biopsy contained carcinoma . stellate mass lesions were highly suggestive of a malignant growth ( p less than 0.0001 ) . no relationship between the size of the suspicious mammographic mass and the malignant lesion was observed . a marked correlation ( chi-square test with yate 's correction ) was observed between malignant tumor and lesions with a linear or branching pattern , more than 15 calcifications , or small sized calcifications . the presence of a mass with calcifications was associated with carcinoma in 34 per cent . the incidence of invasive carcinoma was much higher for mass lesions ( 81 per cent ) than for suspicious calcifications ( 56 per cent ) ( p less than 0.0001 ) . 
trends in conserving treatment of invasive carcinoma of the breast in females . this population-based study presents trends in the treatment of node-negative invasive carcinoma of the breast in females during the 1980s in the detroit metropolitan area . it was done to determine whether or not there has been a significant shift toward conservation of the breast from 1980 to 1987 . trend analyses of surgical treatment , tumor size , node status , year of diagnosis , age and race were performed for 13,217 patients drawn from the metropolitan detroit cancer surveillance system . a significant increase in the use of conserving the breast was observed , with younger women receiving this treatment option more often than older women . implications for a continuing shift in the biologic findings and treatment of carcinoma of the breast are discussed . 
correlation between hyperthermoradiosensitivity and clinical effect in carcinoma of the esophagus . the correlation between hyperthermoradiosensitivity evaluated by an in vitro succinate dehydrogenase inhibition ( sdi ) test and the histopathologic effects of hyperthermochemoradiotherapy ( hcr therapy ) were investigated in 43 patients with carcinoma of the esophagus . the succinate dehydrogenase ( sd ) activity of tissue fragments taken at biopsy was assayed after exposure to heat ( 43 degrees c. ) and radiation ( 6 grays ) was done . the sensitivity to radiation plus heat treatment was estimated by the percentage of sd activity of the treated cells , compared with that of the control cells . the 43 patients were divided into three groups according to the degree of sd activity after exposure to radiation plus heat treatment . the sd activity was less than 50 per cent in group 1 ( highly sensitive ) , between 50 and 70 per cent in group 2 ( moderately sensitive ) , more than 70 per cent in group 3 ( less sensitive ) . eighteen of 20 in group 1 , 11 of 17 in group 2 and two of six in group 3 were classified as being histopathologically " effective " for hcr therapy . the two year survival rate for groups 1 , 2 and 3 were 55.5 , 34.9 and zero per cent , respectively , while there were no statistical differences with regard to prognostic factors . these data suggest that in vitro activities of sd correlate well with the clinical effectiveness of hcr therapy . therefore , it is recommended that a sd inhibition test be included among the guidelines for clinical management . 
neoplastic changes in the stomach after gastrectomy . partial gastric resection for benign ulcer disease has been associated with an increased incidence of mucosal dysplasia and invasive adenocarcinoma , particularly 15 to 20 years after resection . these remnant carcinomas are particularly virulent with little hope of resection or cure once symptoms occur . using a planned protocol of routine endoscopic surveillance with biopsy , the goal was to identify early markers of neoplasia , that is , dysplasia , and a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the gastric remnant , while both resection and cure were possible . between july 1980 and august 1988 , yearly flexible gastroscopic examination and random biopsy have been performed on 163 patients at least ten years after gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease . all biopsy results were interpreted for findings of dysplasia and early gastric adenocarcinoma . results of this ongoing screening program revealed dysplasia of the gastric remnant in nine patients with eventual findings of adenocarcinoma in four of this group . these patients underwent total gastrectomy with findings of limited disease . five patients with mucosal dysplasia continue to be observed at six month intervals . three additional gastric carcinomas were found on initial gastroscopic screening , while one patient had adenocarcinoma diagnosed during a third yearly gastroscopic examination . these eight asymptomatic patients with adenocarcinoma in the gastric remnant had a postgastrectomy interval which ranged from 15 to 29 years ( mean of 26.5 years ) . the results of this study support the concept of neoplastic change in the gastric remnant as a function of time from initial gastric resection . findings of dysplasia on random biopsy indicate a greater likelihood of development of carcinoma of the gastric remnant and identify a subset of patients requiring aggressive endoscopic surveillance . 
therapeutic dilemmas associated with antenatally detected ovarian cysts . fifteen instances of ovarian cysts detected antenatally are reported . seven cysts more than 5 centimeters in diameter were treated surgically because of clinical signs , such as palpable abdominal mass , vomiting and abdominal distension . seven cysts less than 5 centimeters in diameter , and one cyst more than 5 centimeters in diameter began to regress spontaneously within six months after birth . because the pathophysiologic nature of neonatal ovarian cysts has not been elucidated and because the borderline between physiologic and pathologic factors is still unclear , we propose a more conservative approach in the management of neonatal ovarian cysts to avoid unnecessary operations . 
intraoperative pressure profile measurement and continence mechanism adjustment in the indiana pouch urinary reservoir . we have described herein a simple pressure transducer system which helps the surgeon to tailor suture placement and achieve a continent ileocecal reservoir . it seems that fewer lembert sutures than previously recommended are necessary to create a continent reservoir , although further study is needed . 
magnetic resonance imaging of experimental rat brain tumors : histopathological evaluation . using rg-c6 glioma-transplanted rats , we studied precontrast and postcontrast magnetic resonance imaging , extravasation of evans blue , and histology . in all rats , tumor was enhanced with gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ( gd-dtpa ) . the necrotic portion in the tumor , however , was not enhanced . hemorrhage and hydrocephalus were clearly visualized on both the precontrast and postcontrast images . blood-brain barrier-disrupted areas stained with evans blue and areas enhanced with gd-dtpa on magnetic resonance imaging were nearly consistent . it is suggested that the mechanism of brain tumor enhancement with gd-dtpa on magnetic resonance imaging is simply related to the degree of alteration of the blood-brain barrier . the gd-dtpa-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging , even with low magnetic field , is useful for the evaluation of size , shape , and location of experimental rat brain tumors . 
third ventricle cavernous angioma : report of two cases . cavernous angioma arising in the third ventricle is an extremely rare disease . we have reviewed five cases previously reported , as well as our own two cases , and discuss the clinical characteristics of and surgical approach to cavernous angioma at this site . the bifrontal craniotomy and interhemispheric translamina terminalis approach minimize the damage to the brain and allow for an approach to the third ventricle in a wide operative field with minimal compression of the brain itself . we have found this approach to be suitable for surgery on angiomas of the anterior half of the third ventricle . 
magnetic resonance imaging of vertebral osteoblastoma : a report of two cases . two patients with vertebral osteoblastoma evaluated with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are presented . a literature review revealed that cases of osteoblastoma originating within the vertebral body are exceedingly rare . 
aqueductal ( pencil ) glioma presenting as neurogenic pulmonary edema : a case report . a case of neurogenic pulmonary edema due to hydrocephalus , without initial neurological deficit , is described . computed tomography demonstrated a ring enhancing lesion in the tectum of the mesencephalon obstructing the aqueduct of sylvius . the lesion , on autopsy , was a rare mesencephalic glioma described in the literature as a " pencil glioma " of the aqueduct . 
computed tomography and bronchoscopy in chest radiographically occult main-stem neoplasm diagnosis and nd-yag laser treatment in 8 patients . we studied 8 adult patients with variable symptoms of cough , dyspnea , stridor , wheezing , or hemoptysis . fiberoptic bronchoscopy in all showed complete or nearly complete endobronchial obstruction of a main-stem bronchus by neoplasm with a mean bronchial diameter of 1.9 mm + / - 1.6 mm ( mean + / - standard deviation ) . in 4 patients , a lobar bronchus was also completely obstructed . no mass was visible on chest radiographs of any patient ; however , computed tomography in each showed main-stem endobronchial obstruction , lobar obstruction ( 4 instances in 3 patients ) , and in 6 patients hypoperfusion of the involved lung . computed tomographic scan showed additional abnormalities that were unsuspected on viewing chest radiographs or at bronchoscopy , including mediastinal adenopathy in 3 patients and an extraluminal tumor component in 4 . after therapy with nd-yag laser , main-stem airway diameter increased to a mean of 9.6 mm + / - 1.0 mm ( p less than .05 ) and pulmonary functions improved . results suggest the complementary role of computed tomography and fiberoptic bronchoscopy in the detection and laser-treatment planning of chest radiographically occult severe neoplastic obstruction of the main-stem bronchus . 
correlation of free phenytoin to serum albumin in cancer patients . the objectives of this study were to compare the total and free phenytoin serum concentrations of cancer patients with hypoalbuminemia with those of cancer patients with normal serum albumin and to correlate the percentage of free phenytoin with the albumin concentration . a total of 22 patients were studied , 13 with normal albumin concentration and 9 with low albumin . the mean free phenytoin in the normal albumin group was 9.9 ( + / - 1.3 ) percent and 17.6 ( + / - 4.6 ) percent in the low albumin group . with the groups combined , the mean free phenytoin was 13.1 percent ( range 8.3-22 .2 ) with the albumin range of 20-45 g/l . there was a significant negative correlation ( r = -0.9 , p less than 0.001 ) between the percentage of free phenytoin and the measured serum albumin . in cancer patients , the serum albumin concentration appears to be the key factor that determines the percentage of free phenytoin . in cancer patients with low serum albumin concentration , the total and free phenytoin concentration should be measured for adequate assessment of phenytoin therapy . 
fine-needle aspiration cytology and flow cytometry of intracystic papillary carcinoma of breast to define criteria for cytologic diagnosis of intracystic papillary carcinoma ( icpc ) , the authors retrospectively reviewed the fine-needle aspiration ( fna ) cytologic specimens of eight cases of histologically proven icpc of breast . the patients were five black and three white women , 56-87 years of age . the fna specimen was cyst fluid in four cases ( bloody in three , clear in one ) . all the aspirates showed cellular smears with small and large clusters of cells with papillary and/or cribriform configurations and numerous single epithelial cells . the cells were cuboidal to columnar with minimal atypia . icpc was suggested by fna in each case , and all the patients underwent surgical excision or mastectomy . flow cytometry , performed on fresh fna specimen in one case and on paraffin-embedded surgical tissue in all eight cases , showed seven tumors to be aneuploid and one to be diploid . the authors contend that icpcs of breast have distinct cytomorphologic features that can be recognized by fna . because icpc may present in cyst fluid , either bloody or clear , all breast cyst fluids from postmenopausal women should be examined cytologically . flow cytometric demonstration of an aneuploid population may assist in confirming malignancy in this lesion . 
ki67 index and s-phase fraction in human breast carcinomas . comparison and correlations with prognostic factors . in a prospective study of 148 consecutive breast adenocarcinomas , proliferative indices of the same surgical tumor sample were performed by immunohistologic staining ( ki67 index ) with the use of the ki67 monoclonal antibody , which binds to a nuclear antigen only expressed in cycling cells , and by flow cytometry-derived s-phase fraction ( spf ) . measurable ki67 and spf indices were obtained in 142 cases and 99 cases , respectively , and in 96 cases by both methods . in aneuploid tumors , a significant but low ( p less than 0.05 , r = 0.3 ) relationship was observed between ki67 index and spf . when compared with clinical , pathologic , and biochemical parameters these two proliferative indices were shown to be associated with nuclear grading and mitotic index . additionally , correlations were observed between ki67 index and node involvement ( p less than 0.02 ) and between spf and estrogen receptors ( p = 0.002 ) . these results show that ( 1 ) proliferative indices are obtained in 96 % of surgical samples with ki67 versus 67 % with spf and that ( 2 ) ki67 index and spf may provide complementary data with respect to prognosis . 
cytologic features of poorly differentiated ' insular ' carcinoma of the thyroid , as revealed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy . the authors report on the cytologic features of six cases of poorly differentiated " insular " carcinoma ( ic ) of the thyroid , a recently described variety of thyroid tumor intermediate between well-differentiated and anaplastic neoplasms . it is characterized by trabecular and/or alveolar growth patterns , merging with follicular areas , and by the absence of pleomorphism in the tumor cells . fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) materials ( both smears and cell-block preparations ) from six patients were reviewed after the diagnosis of ic was confirmed on the surgical specimen . the following cytologic features were consistently found : high cellularity and necrotic background ; low grade of atypia ; trabeculae and/or clusters , possibly associated with microfollicles , of cells with poorly defined cytoplasm ; and cytoplasmic vacuoles containing thyroglobulin . nuclear inclusions and grooving of the nuclear surface were additional features . preoperative diagnosis suggestive of ic might be of value for planning surgical treatment and subsequent therapy . 
diagnosis and localization of prostate carcinoma by fine-needle aspiration cytology and correlation with histologic whole-organ sections after radical prostatectomy . twenty-nine patients with clinical stage t1-2 , no , mo prostate carcinoma were treated by retropubic radical prostatectomy . diagnosis was made by fine-needle aspiration biopsy from six to eight separate sectors of the prostate . at the time of biopsy , diagrams of the palpated organ were drawn , depicting the location of the lesion and the site of each biopsy . without the examiners ' knowledge of cytologic data , extirpated prostate glands were examined with whole organ histologic sections , and carcinomas were scored according to the method of gleason . the location and extent of all typical and malignant foci were mapped on a standard diagram . the results of preoperative cytologic examination were compared with postoperative histopathologic findings , showing a tendency toward underestimation of both the extent and degree of differentiation of the carcinomas during cytologic examination . in no case were these parameters overestimated during cytologic examination . the gleason score correlated well with the presence of capsular and seminal vesicle invasion . 
immunocytochemical profile of benign and carcinomatous effusions . a practical approach to difficult diagnosis . one of the great challenges in the cytodiagnosis of effusions is the distinction between reactive mesothelium/histiocytes and cancer cells . this is notably true in patients having undergone radiation and/or chemotherapy . to establish whether monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) could be used as reliable diagnostic adjuvants , the authors retrospectively and blindly studied 60 cases diagnosed by standard cytologic criteria ( malignant , benign , and equivocal ) , with a panel of seven readily available moabs ( cytokeratins , vimentin , ema , b72 .3 , alpha-cea , hmfg-2 , and leu-m1 ) and the lectin ulex europaeus i. all 18 ( 100 % ) malignant cases showed reactivity with ema and hmfg , whereas 17 ( 95 % ) and 11 ( 61 % ) reacted with b72 .3 and alpha-cea , respectively . combinations of ( 1 ) ema + b72 .3 , ( 2 ) ema + alpha-cea , and ( 3 ) ema + alpha-cea + b72 .3 displayed positivity in 17 ( 95 % ) , 11 ( 61 % ) , and 10 ( 56 % ) malignant cases , respectively . of the 18 benign cases , 7 reacted with hmfg and 2 each with ema and b72 .3 . only one case ( 5.5 % ) reacted with both ema and b72 .3 . based on these results , the 24 equivocal cases were regrouped into 14 malignant and 10 benign cases . follow-up effusions obtained within the ensuing three months in all these patients allowed the authors to unequivocally confirm the diagnosis in all but five . the combination of ema and b72 .3 moabs detected malignant cells in 95 % of the cases , with a 3.5 % incidence of false positive cases in this study . a panel of ema , b72 .3 , and alpha-cea moabs should prove the most useful and simple approach to the correct diagnosis in most questionable effusions . some of the potential pitfalls are discussed . 
unusual variants of adrenal pseudocysts with intracystic fat , myelolipomatous metaplasia , and metastatic carcinoma . five previously unreported cases of adrenal pseudocysts are described that demonstrate a wider range of histologic appearances than has been previously recognized in these lesions . one pseudocyst removed from an asymptomatic 59-year-old female contained intracystic nests of cytologically malignant cells of unknown origin . workup revealed a left breast mass , which on biopsy showed an infiltrating ductal carcinoma with neoplastic cells that were cytologically similar to those found within the cyst contents . four other pseudocysts are described with variable numbers of intracystic vascular structures and benign adrenal cortical cells . in addition , intracystic mature adipose tissue was observed in all four cases , with myelolipomatous metaplasia found in one . awareness of the wide histologic variability of these lesions should improve diagnostic accuracy and allow distinction from adrenocortical neoplasia and myelolipoma . 
secondary t-cell lymphoproliferation after marrow transplantation . secondary lymphoproliferative syndromes in immunosuppressed patients have been characterized as polyclonal or monoclonal b-lineage disorders nearly always associated with epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) infection . the authors now report three patients with a distinctly different lymphoproliferative syndrome . two patients with common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen ( calla ) ( cd10 ) - positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia and one patient with acute myelogenous leukemia , respectively , received high-dose chemoradiotherapy followed by marrow transplantation from either an hla-identical sibling or hla-mismatched parent . all three patients developed severe graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) , requiring immunosuppressive treatment with corticosteroids . a secondary malignant t-cell lymphoproliferation occurred 2 , 21 , and 43 months , respectively , after marrow transplantation . in all three cases the lymphoid cells expressed t-cell surface antigens and were morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct from the malignant cells present before transplantation . one tumor was of host cell origin , one was probably of donor origin , and the tumor origin in the third case could not be determined . the authors were unable to find any evidence for ebv , human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i or ii , human immunodeficiency virus , or human herpesvirus 6 . 
primary lymphoma of the central nervous system in two children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . postmortem examination disclosed central nervous system non-hodgkin 's lymphoma in two children who died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) at 6 and 14 months of age , respectively . systemic signs of lymphoma were not present . the b-cell origin and clonality of the neoplastic cells were established by immunohistochemistry in one case and by molecular analysis of immunoglobulin gene rearrangement in the other . moreover , in the latter case the neoplastic cells were characterized by the presence of a single episomal ebv genome . according to these data , the monoclonal b-cell proliferation occurred after ebv infection , thus suggesting a possible pathogenetic role of ebv in the early stages of lymphomagenesis . 
strategy for breakpoint cluster region analysis in chronic myelocytic leukemia in a routine clinical laboratory . despite the increasing reliance on breakpoint cluster region ( bcr ) determinations in diagnosis of chronic myelocytic leukemia ( cml ) , few reports have dealt with the practical aspects of specimen analysis . in the setting of a routine molecular diagnostics laboratory , samples from 68 patients with active cml were evaluated for bcr rearrangements , with the use of a variety of enzymes and two probes . the data have been used to develop an efficient strategy for bcr screening and breakpoint determination . screening with the universal bcr ( ubcr ) probe on xba i and bgi ii digests yielded bcr rearrangements in 100 % of the ph1-positive patients and three of the seven ph1-negative patients , giving bcr analysis a sensitivity of 100 % . a single-enzyme screen using the ubcr probe would have resulted in a false negative rate of 10 % . the false negative rate was determined during the breakpoint site analysis from additional digests hybridized to both the 3 ' and ubcr probes . the false negative rate for the 3 ' probe was 26.5 % , because of deletions or 5 ' rearrangements . the method of breakpoint site determination was dependent on screening results . in 78 % of cases , one additional hybridization with two enzyme digests was required . during breakpoint site analysis , a rare false negative result was also demonstrated with bam hi and eco ri . this screening strategy has made bcr analysis competitive with cytogenetic analysis at the authors ' institution ; although turnaround time may be slightly longer , bcr analysis can yield information ( such as detecting bcr-positive/ph1-negative patients and determining breakpoint site ) that can not be obtained by cytogenetics . 
angiocentric lymphoma with histologic features of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with predominant respiratory and hematologic manifestations . report of a case and review of the literature neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis ( nae ) is a rare fatal disease characterized by widespread intravascular proliferations of neoplastic mononuclear cells . clinically , dermatologic and bizarre neurologic manifestations usually predominate . the origin of the neoplastic cells remains still undetermined . the authors report a patient with nae peculiar with respect to the following points : ( 1 ) the patient predominantly manifested respiratory symptoms and hematologic findings and lacked cutaneous or neurologic manifestations ; and ( 2 ) immunohistochemical and molecular genetic studies showed the b-cell nature of the neoplastic cells , although previous cases with predominant respiratory or hematologic manifestations were reported to be of endothelial origin . despite the rarity , this type of nae or angiocentric lymphoma should be recognized because it is easily confused with other disorders , particularly vasculitis or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . 
myofibroblastoma of the tongue . an immunohistochemical , ultrastructural , and flow cytometric study . a case of myofibroblastoma arising in the tongue of a 77-year-old man is described . the patient presented with a submucosal tongue mass without other associated symptoms . the tumor was 2 cm in diameter , well circumscribed , and composed of uniform spindle cells arranged in fascicles . electron microscopic examination and immunohistochemistry demonstrated a myofibroblastic origin for the tumor cells . dna flow cytometric analysis showed a diploid dna content of this tumor . to the authors ' knowledge , this is the first report of myofibroblastoma occurring in the tongue . 
multiple myeloma and acute megakaryoblast leukemia in spent phase polycythemia vera . the spontaneous and simultaneous occurrence of multiple myeloma and megakaryoblast leukemia with myelodysplastic features in a case of spent phase polycythemia vera is well documented . in support of the morphologic characteristics of the bone marrow , immunocytologic studies show proliferation of monoclonal plasma cells and megakaryoblasts . the cytogenetic findings of 20q - and unbalanced t ( 1 ; 7 ) are consistent with myelodysplastic and leukemic transformation of the bone marrow . these transformations expand observations on variable and spontaneous lineage commitments as the consequence of alterations of the hematopoietic stem cell clone . these data are in support of the changing insights in hematopoiesis as a process of ordered commitment of the stem cell with sequential lineage potentials . 
patency rate of implantable devices during long-term intraarterial chemotherapy . intraarterial implantable drug delivery systems have been considered as an alternative method for treating patients with unresectable liver malignancies . however , catheter problems with external implanted devices have resulted in limited application of chemotherapy . the introduction of subcutaneous devices offers an opportunity for long-term locoregional chemotherapy . twelve external intraarterial catheters were implanted into 12 patients and 52 subcutaneously placed devices into 51 patients , all with various hepatic malignancies . retrospective analyses comparing those two intraarterial systems were conducted taking into account the function and complication rate ( hepatic artery thrombosis , infection , leaking , hemorrhage , and dislocation ) . the follow-up time for the external system was two to eight months ( median five weeks ) , the thrombosis rate 33.3 % , and the infection rate 25 % . one instance of severe bleeding from the hepatic artery occurred during chemotherapy . one catheter dislocated . for the subcutaneously implanted intraarterial devices the follow-up time was five to forty-one months ( median sixteen months ) , the thrombotic complication rate 17.3 % , and the infection rate 7.6 % ( all patients with simultaneous bowel surgery ) . catheter dislocation one year later required reimplantation ; in 1 patient therapy had to be discontinued because of a catheter leak . the overall function rate was 71.3 % with a median follow-up time of eight months . anticoagulation therapy for subcutaneously implanted devices starting from the beginning of intraarterial chemotherapy is recommended to achieve long-term patency . no implantation should be preformed simultaneously with bowel surgery . the subcutaneously placed intraarterial devices had a higher function rate and were available for a longer period as compared with external implanted catheters . 
intraocular lens complications . the authors implanted intraocular lenses ( iol ) in 780 eyes and considered complications of this surgery , dividing the complications into intraoperative and postoperative , the latter early and late . the most frequent intraoperative complications were : hyphema , vitreous injury , pupil deformation with an iol in the anterior chamber ( ac ) , and hyphema and corneal lesions with an iol in the posterior chamber ( pc ) . among the early postoperative complications of an iol in the ac the authors noticed striate keratopathy and uveal flare and postoperative transitory ocular hypertension and striate keratitis with an iol in the pc . moreover , in late postoperative complications in ac implantation they observed : cystoid macular edema , bullous keratitis , retinal detachment , late uveitis , opacification of posterior capsule , eccentric displacement of the iol , and less frequently , cystoid macular edema in pc implantations . the authors prefer iol implantation in the pc after extracapsular cataract extraction , since this surgery causes less problems in the cornea , vitreous , and retina . 
effect of bleomycin on hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy of solid tumors . hematoporphyrin derivative phototherapy ( hpd-pt ) has been successfully used to localize and treat superficial squamous cell cancers . bleomycin sulfate is a glycopeptide antibiotic that has antineoplastic properties against squamous cell cancers . because both hpd-pt and bleomycin chemotherapy are accepted forms of treatment for squamous cell cancer and their cytotoxicity is mediated by singlet oxygen and oxygen radicals , we studied the possibility of enhancing the response of solid tumors to hpd-pt by combining this modality with systemic bleomycin chemotherapy in a murine tumor model . bleomycin did not enhance hpd-pt significantly . also , we are not confident that hpd-pt alone or in combination with other agents can eradicate solid tumors ; it certainly did not in this syngeneic murine tumor model . 
endoscopic management of early supraglottic cancer . an initial endoscopic surgical approach to early supraglottic cancer provides the surgeon with the ability to accurately stage these lesions , avoiding possible undertreatment while allowing for a valuable treatment option for those supraglottic cancers with histologically incontrovertibly superficial disease . early invasion of the preepiglottic and paraglottic spaces can be determined accurately without altering or delaying any treatment option ( open surgical excision , radiotherapy , or chemotherapy ) . the tendency of supraglottic cancers to transgress the natural foramina of the epiglottis is well established , and the concern about this depth of invasion is reflected by the 1977 revised staging criteria , which required assessment of the preepiglottic space ( pes ) . along with the microscope and the carbon dioxide laser , the adjustable supraglottiscope facilitates the determination of pes invasion and facilitates en bloc excision of superficial supraglottic cancers . the resulting morbidity typically is no different from that with routine direct endoscopy and biopsy . 
the association of selected cancers with service in the us military in vietnam . ii . soft-tissue and other sarcomas . the selected cancers cooperative study group as part of a series of investigations into the health of vietnam veterans , we conducted a population-based , case-control study of soft-tissue and other sarcomas between 1984 and 1988 . all men born between 1929 and 1953 and diagnosed in an area covered by eight cancer registries were considered eligible . controls were selected by random-digit dialing . analyses of 342 men with pathologically confirmed sarcoma and 1776 controls showed that vietnam veterans had a relative risk of 1.0 for sarcoma in comparison with men who did not serve in vietnam ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.6 to 1.6 ) . restriction of the analysis to the 254 men with soft-tissue sarcoma yielded a relative risk of 0.9 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.5 to 1.6 ) . several attributes of military service in vietnam ( eg , branch , duration of service , military region , and other characteristics that may have been associated with the use of agent orange ) were examined , and none was associated with an increased risk for the development of sarcoma . furthermore , no morphologic type of sarcoma was overrepresented among vietnam veterans . results were unchanged if vietnam veterans were compared with ( 1 ) other veterans or ( 2 ) men who never served in the military . this study , which had 97 % power to detect a relative risk of 2.0 for all sarcomas , provides no evidence that the risk for the development of soft-tissue or other sarcomas is increased among veterans 15 to 25 years following service in vietnam . 
the association of selected cancers with service in the us military in vietnam . iii . hodgkin 's disease , nasal cancer , nasopharyngeal cancer , and primary liver cancer . the selected cancers cooperative study group as part of a series of investigations into the health of vietnam veterans , we conducted case-control studies involving 310 men with hodgkin 's disease , 48 with nasal carcinoma , 80 with nasopharyngeal carcinoma , 130 with primary liver cancer , and 1776 controls between 1984 and 1988 . all men born between 1929 and 1953 and diagnosed in an area covered by eight cancer registries were considered eligible as cases ; controls were recruited by random-digit dialing . whereas the study had excellent power ( 96 % ) to detect a twofold increase in risk for hodgkin 's disease among vietnam veterans , its ability to detect a similarly elevated risk in the other cancers was limited , ranging from 38 % ( nasal carcinoma ) to 75 % ( primary liver cancer ) . analyses showed that risks among vietnam veterans relative to other men were 1.1 ( hodgkin 's disease ) , 0.7 ( nasal carcinoma ) , 0.5 ( nasopharyngeal carcinoma ) , and 1.2 ( primary liver cancer ) . none of these relative risks was significantly different from 1.0 . similar results were obtained if vietnam veterans were compared with ( 1 ) other veterans or ( 2 ) men who never served in the military . an examination of several attributes of military service in vietnam ( eg , branch , duration of service , and other characteristics that may have been associated with the use of agent orange ) failed to identify any groups of veterans who were at increased risk for hodgkin 's disease . small numbers limited further analyses of nasal , nasopharyngeal , and liver cancer . these results provide no evidence that , 15 to 25 years following service in vietnam , the risk of these malignant neoplasms is higher among veterans . 
lymphomatoid granulomatosis presenting as ulcerodestructive gastrointestinal tract lesions in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection . a new association . we describe cases of severe odynophagia , extensive oral ulcerations , and bowel perforation in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection that were caused by lymphomatoid granulomatosis . such presentations in human immunodeficiency virus-infected individuals are usually ascribed to other causes and may be incorrectly treated on an empiric basis . in addition , deep tissue specimens obtained at the margin of ulcerative lesions are often necessary for definitive diagnosis . we review our limited treatment experience with zidovudine , interferon alfa , and h2 blockers in our patients . based on the markedly increased frequency in which lymphomatoid granulomatosis is being diagnosed at our institution in the post-human immunodeficiency virus era , we postulated an association between these two entities . 
the dichotomous distribution of gastrinomas . our experience with 47 sporadic gastrinomas suggests that no less than 85 % of these tumors are located to the right of the superior mesenteric artery . this finding is unexpected because approximately 75 % of insulinomas and glucagonomas are located to the left of the superior mesenteric artery . all of our extrapancreatic gastrinomas have been located to the right . these observations prompted us to determine if other extrapancreatic gastrinomas were also predominantly located to the right side . we searched the world 's literature and found 10 cases of ovarian gastrinomas and one case of a renal gastrinoma . nine of these remote extrapancreatic gastrinomas were located on the right side . this distribution of remote extrapancreatic gastrinomas is similar to our experience with peripancreatic gastrinomas . this unexpected right-sided preponderance of both remote and peripancreatic gastrinomas suggests a common origin for both . 
generation of human monoclonal antibodies against colon cancer . lymphocytes from regional lymph nodes of patients with colon cancer were fused with a human lymphoblastoid cell line with or without in vitro immunization . the efficacy of these two protocols for the generation of human monoclonal antibodies against colon cancer was investigated . the hyperplastic lymph nodes adjacent to the tumor were the best source of b lymphocytes . fusion frequency and the number of tumor-reactive clones were markedly increased when the in vitro immunization protocol was applied prior to fusion . as a stimulant in in vitro immunization , the supernatant of pokeweed mitogen-stimulated t lymphocytes was superior to the supernatant of mixed lymphocytes culture . carcinoembryonic antigen at 20 micrograms/l seemed to be the optimal dose for in vitro immunization . the reactivities of human monoclonal antibodies thus generated were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and confirmed by immunoperoxidase staining . combining in vitro immunization with lymphocytes of cancer patients may lead to the successful production of clinically useful human monoclonal antibodies . 
detection of primary colorectal cancer with indium 111 monoclonal antibody b72 .3 . b72 .3 is a murine monoclonal antibody of the immunoglobulin subclass igg1 directed against tag-72 , a cell surface antigen present on colorectal carcinoma cells . we investigated the utility of scanning with indium 111-labeled b72 .3 in 16 patients with a high clinical suspicion of or biopsy-proven primary colorectal cancer . each patient received 1 or 2 mg of b72 .3 monoclonal antibody labeled with 152 mbq of indium 111 . patients underwent scanning 2 to 3 days and 7 days after infusion by planar and emission computed tomography . nineteen lesions were confirmed in 12 patients . three patients with benign polyps had true-negative monoclonal antibody scans . indium 111-labeled imaging of b72 .3 detected nine of 19 lesions . unsuspected tumor sites were identified by monoclonal antibody scan in three patients . by detection of additional abdominal disease and extra-abdominal spread , indium 111-labeled scanning of b72 .3 directly affected treatment in 18 % of patients . 
metastatic ciliary body carcinoid tumor . a 50-year-old man with a history of systemic carcinoid had decreased right eye vision and a darkly pigmented cilio-choroidal mass . results of ultrasonographic and fluorescein angiographic examinations were consistent with a malignant melanoma . fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the lesion identified it as a carcinoid metastasis . the patient refused both radiation and enucleation ; complete excision with a cyclochoroidectomy was performed . histopathologic examination showed a carcinoid neoplasm covered by marked hyperplasia of the retinal pigment epithelium that produced the pigmented appearance of the lesion . 
a study of immunoglobulin g in the cerebrospinal fluid of 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease using isoelectric focusing and the log igg-index . a comparison and diagnostic applications . cerebrospinal fluid and serum immunoglobulin g from 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease were analysed by 2 methods : isoelectric focusing for the detection of oligoclonal banding , and quantitative measurement of igg and albumin for the formulation of a log igg-index . a comparison of the 2 methods in the detection of local synthesis of igg showed that isoelectric focusing not only gave a much higher yield overall , with 282 patients showing local synthesis versus 225 for the log igg-index , but also a higher specificity , with a false positive rate of 0 % versus 3.5 % . in addition , of the 282 patients positive by isoelectric focusing only 163 ( 58 % ) were positive by the log igg-index . of the 1007 patients studied , 206 had multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , and isoelectric focusing showed local synthesis in 95 % of clinically definite cases , with a 90 % detection rate overall . the log igg-index was positive in only 67 % of clinically definite cases , with an overall 59 % detection rate . thus with the exceptions noted above , local synthesis of igg as defined by isoelectric focusing is confined to demyelinating , inflammatory , infectious and postinfectious disorders . our results compare very favourably with the published sensitivities of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of abnormalities in multiple sclerosis , and better than those for evoked potentials . where both these investigations are readily available isoelectric focusing provides a useful adjunct . for the majority of physicians and neurologists who do not have ready access to magnetic resonance imaging , isoelectric focusing is an excellent alternative . we would also recommend that it become the standard for the measurement of igg abnormalities in the cerebrospinal fluid and that the use of quantitative data be abandoned for routine purposes . 
oral contraceptives and breast cancer . review and meta-analysis . to evaluate the relation between use of oral contraceptives and the incidence of breast cancer , the authors reviewed the epidemiologic literature and used quantitative methods to summarize the data . study results for any use of oral contraceptives were pooled using a model that accounted for both interstudy and intrastudy variability . the authors also explored interstudy variability and modeled a duration-effect relation between oral contraceptive use and breast cancer . case-control and follow-up studies were considered separately . overall , the authors observed no increase in the risk of breast cancer for women who had ever used oral contraceptives , even after a long duration of use . these results were consistent across study design . however , data combined from case-control studies revealed a statistically significant positive trend ( p = 0.001 ) in the risk of premenopausal breast cancer for women exposed to oral contraceptives for longer duration . this risk was predominant among women who used oral contraceptives for at least 4 years before their first term pregnancy ( relative risk = 1.72 ; 95 % confidence interval = 1.36 to 2.19 ) . additional study is required to determine whether this finding in a subgroup of exposed women is confirmed and whether the risk remains increased with advancing age . 
predictive value of tumor estrogen and progesterone receptor levels in postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer treated with toremifene . the predictive value of estrogen receptor ( er ) concentrations was evaluated in a group of 113 postmenopausal patients with estrogen-receptor-positive ( er greater than 7 fmol/mg protein ) advanced breast cancer . in 103 patients , tumors were also sampled for progesterone receptor ( pgr ) determination . all patients were treated with toremifene , a novel antiestrogen , 60 mg daily . the median er in 51 responders was 78 fmol/mg protein , and in 62 nonresponders , 51 fmol/mg protein ; the median pgr levels were 40 and 37 fmol/mg protein , respectively . the response rate in patients with er less than 50 fmol/mg protein was 38 % , and 51 % in the group with er greater than 50 fmol/mg protein ( not significant [ ns ] ) . the response rate in patients with pgr less than 10 fmol/mg protein was 42 % , and in patients with greater than 10 fmol/mg protein , 44 % . the duration of response in patients with er greater than 50 fmol/mg protein was significantly longer than with lower er levels ( p = 0.002 ) . pgr was not associated with the duration of response . in cox 's multiple regression analysis , er was an independent prognostic factor ( p = 0.005 ) for response duration . thus , the er concentration of tumor tissue predicts the duration of response but not the response rate to toremifene in patients with advanced breast cancer . the pgr status does not predict the response rate or the duration of response . 
combined modality therapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma . multi-modality treatment consisting of cisplatin , vp-16 , and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy given concomitantly with external beam radiation was used to treat 64 patients with locally advanced stage iii non-small cell lung carcinoma . this regimen was used in a preoperative fashion for four cycles in patients considered surgically resectable and with curative intent for six cycles in the remainder of patients . the clinical response rate for the entire group was 84 % and the overall local control rate was 74 % . the median survival was 13 months with a median follow-up for live patients of 19 months . the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates were 30 % and 23 % , respectively . histologic complete response was 39 % and appeared to predict for survival . the 3-year actuarial survival and disease-free survival rates for 23 resected patients were 69 % and 45 % , respectively , with the complete histologic responders having a disease-free survival of 78 % . the pattern of first recurrence did not appear to differ by histology or presence of lymph nodes in this subset of patients . the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates for inoperable patients receiving six cycles of treatment were 18 % and 23 % , respectively . the local control was 67 % with the majority of these patients having stage iiib disease . the mountain international staging system appeared to predict for operability , local recurrence , and survival . this concomitant treatment regimen is feasible , with the major toxicities being leukopenia , nausea , and vomiting . 
low-dose preoperative radiation postpones recurrences in operable rectal cancer . results of a randomized multicenter trial in western norway . a randomized , multicenter clinical trial was conducted in western norway to study the effectiveness of preoperative radiation therapy in operable rectal cancer , given at a dosage of 3150 cgy in 18 fractions , 2 to 3 weeks before radical surgery . three hundred nine patients were entered into the trial between may 1976 and december 1985 . after radiation no tumor was seen in 4.5 % of the patients . there was no increased morbidity or mortality at surgery . the 5-year survival for evaluable patients was 57.5 % in the control group and 56.7 % in the radiotherapy group . for patients operated on for cure the 5-year survival was 60.9 % and 64.2 % in the control group and radiotherapy group , respectively . radiation significantly delayed both local and distant recurrences in patients in the radiation group who had curative resection from 13.3 months in controls to 27.1 months . the local recurrence rate in the corresponding groups was 21.1 % and 13.7 % , respectively . we conclude that higher preoperative radiation doses should be used in new trials as a higher dosage may transform the observed positive effects into a survival benefit . 
comparison of lymphangiography and computed tomography scanning in evaluating abdominal disease in stages iii and iv hodgkin 's disease . a southwest oncology group study . the authors reviewed the records of 139 patients who had laparotomy plus computed tomography ( ct ) and/or lymphangiograms ( lag ) as part of a their staging workup for hodgkin 's disease , in accordance with southwest oncology group ( swog ) protocol 7808 . they evaluated the relative ability of ct and lag to detect disease in the abdomen . two regions of the abdomen were designated , the upper and the lower , to further examine the capabilities of ct and lag in the lower abdomen and ct in the upper abdomen . a lag was more sensitive ( p less than 0.05 ) than ct in detecting positive lower abdominal nodes . in the upper abdomen , ct scan had low sensitivity for detecting positive nodes , liver , or spleen . this study suggests that lag of the lower abdomen provided more information than ct , and therefore should not be abandoned as a valid method for detecting nodal disease . 
piroxicam decreases postirradiation colonic neoplasia in the rat . this study evaluated the effects of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent piroxicam on chronic radiation proctitis in the rat . forty female wistar rats received a 2250-cgy dose of irradiation to the distal 2 cm of the colon . twenty received piroxicam 8.0 mg/kg orally 30 minutes before exposure and 24 hours after exposure ; 20 rats served as irradiated controls . all animals were evaluated by colonoscopy 1 and 3 weeks postexposure and every third week until death or killing at 1 year . at killing , colons were removed for light microscopic examination . one year postirradiation results showed no differences in mortality , vascular changes , acute inflammation , colitis cystica profunda , or rectal stricture between the control and piroxicam-treated groups . however , at 1 year postirradiation the control group demonstrated neoplasia in 15 of 19 animals compared with eight of 20 animals in the piroxicam-treated group . the first endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasm occurred at 15 weeks postirradiation in one control irradiated rat whereas the first evidence of endoscopic neoplasm in the piroxicam-treated group did not occur until 36 weeks postirradiation . histologic examination documented a tendency toward a greater presence of adenocarcinomas in the control group compared with the piroxicam-treated group . the authors conclude that piroxicam treatment significantly decreased the incidence of colonic neoplasia in general as well as delayed the endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasia in rats after pelvic irradiation . 
diffuse sclerosing variant of papillary carcinoma of the thyroid . clinical importance , surgical treatment , and follow-up study . a diffuse sclerosing variant is not very rare among papillary carcinomas of the thyroid when the patients are female and younger than 30 years of age . the variant is characterized by diffuse involvement of one or both thyroid lobes , with dense sclerosis , patchy lymphocytic infiltration , and abundant psammoma bodies . controversy still exists concerning its prognosis . we reviewed our experience with 14 patients treated between 1958 and 1988 . all patients were young females , their age being from 10 to 28 years with a mean of 19.6 . hashimoto 's thyroiditis had been suspected in nine patients before they came to our clinic . nowadays the diagnosis of this cancer is possible when we have this entity in mind and detect abundant psammoma bodies either by ultrasonography or by soft-tissue roentgenography of the neck . total thyroidectomy with modified neck dissection was carried out in eight patients , subtotal thyroidectomy with neck dissection in five , and lobectomy with neck dissection in one . all of them are alive and well without distant metastasis at a mean follow-up of 16 years . because most of the patients with this variant of papillary carcinoma are young women and the prognosis is favorable , a complete resection without causing later recurrence , but also cosmetic and complication-free surgery , should be considered . 
can internal mammary chain treatment decrease the risk of death for patients with medial breast cancers and positive axillary lymph nodes ? the effect of internal mammary chain treatment on each type of malignant death-related event was analyzed in 1195 patients with operable breast cancer and histologically involved axillary lymph nodes . a group of 135 patients who had no internal mammary chain treatment was compared with a control group of 1060 patients who were treated by surgery and/or postoperative radiation therapy . in a multivariate analysis taking into account age , clinical size of the tumor , histoprognostic grading , and the number of positive axillary lymph nodes , quantitative interaction tests were used to determine whether the effects of internal mammary chain treatment on each type of malignant event were significantly different for patients with a lateral tumor compared with those with a medial tumor . the authors found that the effects of this treatment on the risks of distant metastases and of secondary breast cancer were not the same for the patients with a medial tumor as for those with a lateral tumor . for the untreated patients with a medial tumor , the risks of distant metastases and second breast cancer were , respectively , 1.6 ( p = 0.02 ) and 2.9 ( p = 0.02 ) , compared with the treated patients . conversely , for women with lateral tumor , no difference between the two treatment groups was observed . thus , internal mammary chain treatment may improve long-term survival rate in patients with a medial tumor and positive axillary lymph nodes essentially by decreasing the risk of development of distant metastases ( mainly brain , distant lymph nodes , multiple simultaneous metastases ) and/or a secondary breast cancer . 
superficial esophageal carcinoma . surgical treatment and the results . we report 92 patients treated with esophagectomy for superficial esophageal carcinoma ( sec ; 9.1 % of all resected esophageal cancers at our institution ) . the operative mortality rate was 5.4 % . in 24 cases , cancer invasion was limited to the mucosa , and in 68 to the submucosa . twenty-three patients in the former group had no lymph node involvement , whereas 24 patients ( 35.3 % ) of the latter group had lymph node metastases . the 5-year survival rate after surgery for patients with sec limited to the mucosa was 83.5 % , which was significantly better than that for carcinoma invading the submucosa ( 54.9 % ) . no recurrent disease occurred in patients with lesions limited to the mucosa . in conclusion , an esophagectomy with wide lymphadenectomy is necessary to provide a better prognosis for sec invading the submucosa , whereas a less extensive treatment may be considered for sec limited to the mucosa . 
the concept of locally advanced gastric cancer . effect of treatment on outcome . the gastrointestinal tumor study group . in previous gastrointestinal tumor study group ( gitsg ) reports , gastric cancer patients with locally unresectable disease , treated with combined radiation and chemotherapy had a shorter median survival ( 40 weeks ) but more remained alive at 4 years ( 18 % ) when compared to those randomized to receive chemotherapy alone ( 76 weeks and 6 % , respectively ) . to further test the concept that combined modality therapy might increase the number of long-term survivors , a second protocol was designed , but with three major modifications . a course of chemotherapy would precede the 5-fluorouracil-potentiated radiation therapy . doxorubicin would be added to the 5-fluorouracil plus methyl-ccnu combination . radiation therapy would be given as a single course of 4320 cgy , with 5-fluorouracil given daily for 3 days at the beginning and end of the course . median survival of 46 patients treated with chemotherapy alone was 59 weeks , with 11 % alive after 3 years . following combined modality therapy , median survival was 62 weeks , but only 7 % lived 3 years . although the problem of early deaths in the combined modality group was resolved , long-term survival with combination therapy was not demonstrated in this study . 
lack of relationship between perioperative blood transfusion and survival time after curative resection for gastric cancer . to better comprehend the relationship between perioperative blood transfusion and survival time after curative gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer , the authors reviewed retrospectively data on 568 patients treated in their clinics from 1965 to 1983 . of these 568 , 195 ( 34.3 % ) required no blood transfusion and 373 ( 65.7 % ) required transfusions within the perioperative period . univariate analysis indicated that the survival time of the transfusion recipients was significantly less than that of the patients who had no transfusions ( p less than 0.01 ) . in subgroups of the authors ' patients stratified to adjust for stage of disease , there was , however , no significant difference between the survival rates . subsequently , multivariate analysis , using the cox regression analysis , which adjusted for sex , age , and other covariates , indicated that perioperative blood transfusion was not a useful factor for predicting survival time . multivariate analysis suggested that tumor size ( p less than 0.01 ) , degree of invasion into the gastric wall ( p less than 0.01 ) and status of lymph node metastasis ( p less than 0.01 ) were the most important covariates after curative gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer . the authors ' findings revealed the lack of any relationship between perioperative blood transfusion and survival time of patients who underwent curative resection for advanced gastric cancer . 
transrectal ultrasonography of rectal carcinoma . preoperative transrectal ultrasonographic staging of 38 patients with known adenocarcinoma of the rectum was performed . six of these patients had preoperative radiation therapy . of the 32 without radiation therapy , transrectal ultrasonography ( trus ) correctly staged disease limited to the rectum in 90 % ( 18 of 20 ) and transmural extension in 50 % ( 6 of 12 ) , for a sensitivity for evaluating transmural extension of 50 % , specificity of 90 % , positive predictive value of 75 % , and a negative predictive value of 25 % . nineteen patients had positive nodes . the sensitivity and specificity of detecting nodal metastases by trus were 63 % and 85 % . the positive and negative predictive values were 86 % and 61 % , respectively . trus was slightly superior to digital rectal examination in staging patients because of its superior ability to detect adenopathy . adjacent organ involvement was correctly evaluated in five of six patients ; peritumoral fibrosis was misinterpreted as tumor extension into uterus and ovary in one woman . tumor shrinkage in all patients undergoing radiation therapy was identified , but fibrosis and edema made staging by trus unreliable in those patients . 
the effect of dietary omega-3 fatty acids ( fish oil ) on azoxymethanol-induced focal areas of dysplasia and colon tumor incidence . maxepa ( ma ) , a fish oil high in omega-3 fatty acids , was combined with various levels of corn oil ( co ) , rich in omega-6 fatty acids , and fed to female cf1 mice . the three fish oil blends with co and the two co levels of the diets studied were as follows : 16.0 % co + 4.4 % ma ( diet 1 ) ; 10.2 % co + 10.2 % ma ( diet 2 ) ; 4.4 % co + 16.0 % ma ( diet 3 ) ; 20.4 % co ( diet 4 ) ; and 4.4 % co ( diet 5 ) . the diets were provided 2 weeks before weekly subcutaneous injection of saline or azoxymethanol ( aom ) . studies of epithelial cell proliferation and the incidence of focal areas of dysplasia ( fad ) involved six weekly aom injections . one week after the last aom injection and 1 hour before killing , mice were injected with tritiated thymidine ( 3htdr ) . no differences in any proliferative parameters were found among the five groups of saline-treated mice . among the aom-treated animals , those fed diet 3 showed significantly fewer cells per crypt and significantly fewer labeled cells/gland than co diets 4 and 5 . additionally , the distribution of s-phase cells in crypts of aom-treated mice fed diet 3 most closely resembled that of the saline controls . the greatest alteration in the distribution of proliferative cells was observed in the high-co diet ( diet 4 ) and the lowest ma level ( diet 1 ) . mice fed diets 2 and 3 had significantly fewer fad/500 microns of distal colonic serial sections than those fed the high co diet ( diet 4 ) . mice involved in chronic tumor incidence studies received only three weekly injections of the same dose of aom . regardless of diet , approximately 88 % of all tumors arose in the distal colon . a significantly larger tumor-bearing population was observed in both the high-co diet 4 and the lowest maxepa ( ma ) diet ( diet 1 ) compared with the incidence in ma diets 2 and 3 and the low-co diet 5 . a diet with a ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acids of approximately 1.0 apparently prevented the development of an adenoma-type proliferative pattern thereby reducing fad numbers and subsequent tumor incidence . 
aneuploidy in pancreatic insulinomas does not predict malignancy . nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) ploidy studies with paraffin embedded archival material from 14 pancreatic insulinomas were performed by flow cytometry . clinical follow-up ( 2 to 17 years ; mean , 8 years ) was obtained for all patients . half of the tumors had a normal dna histogram and half exhibited an abnormal dna profile consistent with dna aneuploidy . six of the seven patients with aneuploid tumors are alive and disease free ( 2 to 5 years postresection ) , and one is alive with metastatic disease . of the seven patients with tumors showing normal dna profiles , five are alive and disease free , one is dead of disease , and one is alive with metastatic disease . these data suggest that dna ploidy analysis is unlikely to provide useful prognostic information for patients with insulinomas . 
comparative study of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma and adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma . clinical , histopathologic , and immunohistochemical analyses . an important disease entity distinct from cutaneous t-cell lymphoma ( ctcl ) in japan is adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( atl ) , which usually shows the same phenotype as ctcl , i.e. , a helper/inducer t-cell phenotype ( cd4 + cd8 - ) , and usually involves the skin . clinically , both ctcl and atl are heterogeneous in nature . in this study , we demonstrated differences between ctcl and atl in terms of clinical and immunopathologic cell surface features . in patients with atl , the predominant clinical findings were peripheral lymph node involvement , skin lesions , hepatosplenomegaly , leukemic manifestations , and an aggressive course . in patients with ctcl , by contrast , only skin lesions predominated at the onset of the disease and a relatively good prognosis was demonstrated . phenotypic heterogeneity of atl in the skin , i.e. , cd4-cd8 - , cd4 + cd8 - , and cd4-cd8 + , was demonstrated . expression of leu8 , cd7 ( leu9 ) , and cd45ra ( 2h4 ) was high in both the skin-infiltrating atl cells and peripheral blood and lymph node atl cells compared with that in the skin-infiltrating ctcl cells . expression of cd25 ( il-2r ) , cd71 ( okt9 ) , hla-dr , and hla-dq was higher in the skin-infiltrating atl cells than in ctcl cells . expression of cd29 ( 4b4 ) was high , and that of cd45ra ( 2h4 ) was low in both the skin-infiltrating atl and ctcl cells compared with the peripheral blood and lymph node atl cells . expression of cd45ro ( uchl-1 ) was not significantly high in the skin-infiltrating ctcl cells compared with that in atl cells . the most significant phenotypic difference between atl cells and ctcl cells was the expression of leu8 ( lymph node homing receptor ) , cd7 and cd25 antigens on the cell surface , and the main phenotypic difference between skin-infiltrating atl and ctcl cells and peripheral blood and lymph node atl cells was the expression of cd29 and cd45ra . these findings confirm that the difference in antigen expression on the cell surface might reflect the clinical features of atl and ctcl , and suggest that the predominant phenotype of peripheral blood and lymph node atl cells is that of naive , relatively immature or activated t-cells , and that ctcl cells are previously activated ( memory ) t-cells . in other words , ctcl cells do not share the same origin as atl cells . these observations support the concept that atl is a disease distinct from ctcl . 
von willebrand factor in head and neck cancer . laboratory abnormalities in blood coagulation factors are common in patients with cancer but the significance is unknown . twenty-eight patients with head and neck cancer were studied at the time of diagnosis . twenty-five were advanced-stage ( iii or iv ) patients . levels of clotting factors , antithrombin iii , and plasminogen were normal . levels of von willebrand factor ( vwf ) , both antigenic and functional ( ristocetin cofactor ) , were elevated . this group of patients were followed for a minimum of 41 months ( median , 48 months ) . fifteen patients died within the follow-up period . von willebrand factor levels were significantly higher in these 15 than the 13 survivors . extreme elevation of ristocetin cofactor ( greater than 300 u/dl ) was seen in six of the 15 patients who died and in none of the survivors . plasma vwf is elevated in head and neck cancer and the level measured at the time of diagnosis may have prognostic and potentially therapeutic implications . 
tumor factors predicting for prognosis in metastatic breast cancer . the presence of p24 predicts for response to treatment and duration of survival . fifty-one patients with metastatic breast cancer were investigated to determine tumor parameters with prognostic significance . investigations included determinations of p24 content by immunocytochemical means using a monoclonal antibody to p24 protein ; immunocytochemical analysis of estrogen and progesterone receptors ; ploidy analysis by flow cytometry , and histologic grading . there were significant correlations between the presence of p24 and estrogen receptor , between histologic grade and p24 expression , and between estrogen and progesterone receptors . of the tumor factors investigated only p24 protein was , however , of prognostic significance . patients with p24-positive tumors had a significantly higher rate of response to treatment as well as more prolonged duration of response and duration of survival from diagnosis of metastatic disease . none of the other variables investigated were significantly predictive of outcome . p24 protein may be a useful predictor of prognosis in metastatic breast cancer . 
clinicopathologic features of hepatocellular carcinoma in young patients . to investigate clinicopathologic characteristics of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) in young adults , excised tumors from 21 patients younger than 45 years ( young group ) were compared with findings in tumors from 204 patients older than 45 ( old group ) . in the young group hcc showed ( 1 ) a high incidence of positive hepatitis b virus surface antigen ( hbsag ) ( young 71.4 % versus old 20.1 % ) ; ( 2 ) relatively well-preserved hepatocellular function ( indocyanine green test ; young 10.7 + / - 8.8 % versus old 20.6 + / - 10.8 % ) ; ( 3 ) low incidence of histologically verified concomitant cirrhosis ( young 52.4 % versus old 78.4 % ) ; and ( 4 ) a more advanced stage of the disease in tnm classification ( stage iii ; young 52.4 % versus old 18.1 % ) . with respect to survival rates achieved by surgery , there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups . thus , hepatitis b virus may relate to the occurrence of hcc in the young patients . despite the advanced stage in the young group , survival rate after surgery was comparable with that achieved in the old group . these observations mean that a close periodic surveillance of young adults with a positive hbsag is required to detect hcc at an early stage . treatment of patients with hbsag using interferon or vidarabine and hepatitis b vaccine should be made to convert hbsag to negative in these individuals . 
angiocentric immunoproliferative lesion/t-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome : a case report and review of the literature . the lesions known as lymphocytic vasculitis , polymorphic reticulosis ( midline malignant reticulosis , lethal midline granuloma ) , lymphomatoid granulomatosis , and angiocentric lymphoma form what have been collectively termed the angiocentric immunoproliferative lesions ( ail ) . because of recent reports demonstrating clonal rearrangements of the t-cell receptor in these lesions , the ail are now thought to represent a continuous spectrum of post-thymic t-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) . nhl associated with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) represents intermediate or high-grade b-cell malignancies in hiv-infected patients that may be etiologically related to the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) . there have been reports of ebv-associated t-cell nhl , ail , and large granular lymphocyte ( lgl ) proliferations , as well as hiv-associated t-cell neoplasia , lgl/t-cell proliferations , and ail . we describe a case of polymorphic reticulosis ( lethal midline granuloma ) arising in an hiv-infected individual , who later progressed to aids , and review the literature on hiv-associated and ebv-associated t-cell neoplasia , lgl/t-cell proliferations , and ail . the etiology of this ail/t-cell nhl , especially in relation to ebv and hiv , is discussed . 
disseminated strongyloidiasis with central nervous system involvement diagnosed antemortem in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and burkitts lymphoma . a 45-year-old man presented with central nervous system involvement as the initial manifestation of disseminated infection with strongyloides stercoralis . several concurrent clinical factors contributed to this event , all related to the patient 's immunosuppression , including high-grade lymphoma , corticosteroid therapy , and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . this is only the third case of cns involvement in disseminated strongyloidiasis diagnosed antemortem . 
abnormal vitamin b6 status in childhood leukemia . vitamin b6 is involved in many biological processes of potential relevance to carcinogenesis and tumor growth , including dna synthesis and maintenance of immunocompetence , yet very little information exists on b6 nutritional status in childhood leukemia . using a radioenzymatic assay , the authors measured plasma pyridoxal 5 ' - phosphate ( plp ) , the biologically active form of b6 , in 11 newly diagnosed untreated children with leukemia and 11 age-matched controls . the children with leukemia had significantly lower plp levels than the controls . in 26 additional leukemia patients and 26 additional controls , a high-performance liquid chromatography assay also demonstrated lower plasma plp levels in childhood leukemia compared with controls . these differences were significant for both acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) and for acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia ( anll ) . the plp values did not correlate with indices of leukemia cell burden , but did correlate with reported b6 intake , suggesting that illness-related diet changes are at least partially responsible for the low plp levels . before any chemotherapy , overall nutritional status was suboptimal in 53 % of all cases and 57 % of anll cases . newly diagnosed children with leukemia have suboptimal overall nutrition as well as suboptimal vitamin b6 status . 
simultaneous hepatoblastoma in identical male twins . identical male twin infants who in 1987 presented with hepatoblastoma at the age of 7 months are reported . twin b was admitted for investigation due to enlarged liver and spleen . he was found to have an inoperable hepatoblastoma of fetal type and was treated with chemotherapy and local irradiation . however , 7 months after the chemotherapy the tumor recurred . the asymptomatic twin a was examined because of the known familial cases , and he proved to have an identical tumor . he was successfully radically operated on and 2 years after the chemotherapy is still doing well with no evidence of tumor . as the mother and the maternal grandmother had polyps in the colon , quite probably the hepatoblastomas of the twins were associated with familial adenomatous polyposis . 
melanoma and soft tissue sarcoma in seven patients . seven patients with both melanoma and sarcoma were seen at the dana farber cancer institute ( boston , ma ) over a 4-year period . three had additional malignant neoplasms ; one of these patients also had the hereditary cutaneous malignant melanoma , dysplastic nevus syndrome . these observations suggest the possibility of a biologic relationship between melanoma and sarcoma , the nature of which remains unknown . 
the epidemiology of cancer among hispanic women . the experience in florida . to explore cancer incidence among hispanic women living in dade county , florida , data were analyzed from the statewide cancer registry . for all but three sites , hispanics had lower rates of the 15 most prevalent cancers than non-hispanics . however , higher rates of cancer among hispanics were noted for cancers of the gallbladder , liver , and heart and soft tissue . subgroups of women had significantly higher rates of cervical cancer and thyroid cancer . lower rates among hispanics were observed for cancers of the esophagus , vagina , breast , colon , buccal cavity and pharynx , and malignant melanoma . these data suggest that most cancer sites traditionally higher among us latino women were not higher among dade hispanics , and that sites more common among non-hispanics have not yet shown an increased incidence among hispanic women in dade county . 
increasing incidence of cecal and sigmoid carcinoma . data from the connecticut tumor registry . we have studied both the distribution and incidence of colorectal cancer using the connecticut tumor registry , the oldest tumor registry in the united states . during the time period 1973 to 1985 , left-sided colon cancers accounted for 63 % of the cancers , right-sided cancers 33 % , and cancers with unspecified sites 4 % . indeed , this pattern of distribution has remained constant for 25 years . for the period 1935 to 1985 , we calculated the sex-specific , age-adjusted ( normalized to the 1970 u.s. census ) incidence . age-adjusted incidence of rectal cancer has remained stable for 50 years : for men , 22.8 cases/100 ,000 / year , and for women , 13.9 cases/100 ,000 / year . during these 50 years , the age-adjusted incidence of cecal carcinoma for men has increased from 3.6 to 16.7 cases/100 ,000 / year , while for women , it has increased from 4.9 to 14.2 cases/100 ,000 / year . sigmoid carcinoma for men has increased from 8.8 to 18.7 cases/100 ,000 / year , and for women , it has increased from 7.7 to 12.8 cases/100 ,000 / year . the incidence of colon cancer at each site has been and continues to be increasing at a constant rate . age-adjusted incidence for all colorectal cancers has increased from 35.2 to 70.2 cases/100 ,000 / year for men and from 32.1 to 49.2 cases/100 ,000 / year for women . thus , distribution of colorectal cancers by site in connecticut has remained stable for 25 years . more importantly , however , the age-adjusted incidence of colon cancer has continued to increase for 50 years , whereas that of rectal cancer has remained relatively stable . 
rapid diagnosis of lung cancer from palpable metastases by needle thrust . this study encourages the use of percutaneous fnb to diagnose and stage advanced lung cancer in patients with palpable metastases in supraclavicular lymph nodes or soft tissues . percutaneous fnb of metastases is much easier to learn than transthoracic needle aspiration : the superficial target is anchored and sampled with multiple passes using a short needle grasped directly in the fingers . it is fast , accurate , economical and nearly free of risk and pain . the technique saves time and money because it is the only procedure needed by many patients with palpable disease in stage iiib and iv . bronchoscopy , transthoracic needle aspiration and open surgical biopsy thus can be avoided in most patients with palpable metastases . prompt diagnosis by fnb of metastases speeds palliation for patients with urgent need . tumor cell type from fnb correlated with cytologic findings from sputum samples , bronchoscopy specimens and autopsy results . 
elevated prostaglandin e2 levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . understanding local pulmonary immunoregulatory mechanism ( s ) in patients with carcinoma of the lung is an important step towards the development of innovative methods of treatment . prostaglandin e2 plays an integral role in immunoregulation . therefore , we evaluated pge2 concentrations in balf from 18 patients with bronchogenic carcinoma , compared to that from six patients with pulmonary diseases other than carcinoma and ten normal smokers of similar age . the level of pge2 in patients with lung carcinoma ( 158.1 + / - 88.7 pg/ml ) was significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) higher than the other two groups ( 16.2 + / - 6.9 and 4.4 + / - 3.4 pg/ml ) . levels of pge2 also varied among patients with carcinoma of different cell types . patients with sqca had significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) higher levels of pge2 ( 242.7 + / - 29.4 pg/ml ) than patients with adca or scca ( 82.3 + / - 27.9 and 66.3 + / - 15.2 pg/ml , respectively ) . furthermore , there was a marked difference in pge2 concentration between carcinomatous lung and clinically noninvolved lung in patients with sqca and adca . further study is warranted to determine the interactions between pge2 and other cytokines ( interleukin-1 , il-2 , and tumor necrosis factor ) , as well as the activity of cytolytic lymphocytes ( lak cells ) in the lungs of patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . 
bronchogenic carcinoma in situ on the carina eradicated by endobronchial biopsy . squamous cell carcinoma in situ of the bronchus is a rare disorder in an isolated clinical setting . we present a case of carcinoma in situ located on the carina with excisional biopsy via a fiberoptic bronchoscope and no recurrence after five years . to our knowledge , this represents the only case of carcinoma in situ treated solely with excisional biopsy . this case further emphasizes the importance of securing biopsy specimens for all mucosal abnormalities and raises the possibility of limited excision as sole therapy for carcinoma in situ . 
11 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione : a marker of adrenal function in hirsutism . to assess the role of the adrenal glands in the development of hirsutism , levels of 11 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione ( 11 beta-oha ) , 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone ( 17-ohp ) , dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate ( dheas ) , androstenedione ( delta 4a ) , and free and total testosterone ( t ) were measured in 63 hirsute females and 30 control patients . six of the hirsute patients had basal levels of 11 beta-oha and 17-ohp and responses to adrenocorticotropic hormone that were significantly greater than these values in controls and the other hirsute women . these women were designated as having an adrenal source for their hirsutism . women with polycystic ovarian syndrome and idiopathic hirsutism had normal values of 11 beta-oha and 17-ohp . levels of total and free t , dheas and delta 4a were significantly higher than control values in all of the hirsute women . this study demonstrates that 11 beta-oha can be used as a marker to assess the adrenal contribution to hirsutism . 
neodymium : yag laser hysteroscopy in large submucous fibroids . the preoperative use of a potent , subcutaneously injected gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist ( gnrh-a ) was evaluated in a series of 60 women with large submucosal fibroids . myomectomy by hysteroscopy and nd : yag laser was easily performed . in 12 cases , the largest portion of the myoma was not inside the uterine cavity and myomectomy was carried by a two-step hysteroscopy . in women who wished to become pregnant , a pregnancy rate of 66 % was achieved . advantages of preoperative use of a gnrh-a are ( 1 ) the significant decrease of the fibroid size , ( 2 ) a lower fluid absorption , and ( 3 ) the restoration of a normal hemoglobin concentration . 
enteric neuronal autoantibodies in pseudoobstruction with small-cell lung carcinoma . severe gastrointestinal dysmotility is a newly recognized paraneoplastic syndrome that occurs with small-cell lung carcinoma . thirty-four patients with small-cell carcinoma , of whom 5 had chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction and 29 had no digestive symptoms , were studied serologically . four of the 5 patients with gut dysmotility had immunoglobulin g antibodies reactive with neurons of the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of jejunum and stomach in an indirect immunofluorescence assay . antibodies of this type were not found in any of the 29 patients who had no gut dysmotility , nor were they found in patients with chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction ( n = 8 ) , ovarian cancer ( n = 20 ) , or epilepsy ( n = 4 ) or in normal subjects ( n = 9 ) . in 4 of the patients with paraneoplastic pseudoobstruction , antibodies in highly diluted serum ( 1:4000 -1:8000 ) bound selectively to nuclei and cytoplasm of neuronal elements in the gut . this novel autoantibody activity suggests that intestinal pseudoobstruction occurring in patients with small-cell carcinoma may have an autoimmune basis . from a clinical standpoint , serological testing offers a simple means for determining which patients with gut dysmotility syndromes may have associated small-cell carcinoma , thereby enabling earlier diagnosis and treatment of the tumor . 
clinical application of ras gene mutation for diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma . most pancreatic adenocarcinomas are known to have ras gene ( oncogene ) mutations . the site of the mutations is localized in codon 12 of k-ras gene . such high incidence and localization of the ras gene mutations have not been observed in any other human malignancies . polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing method enabled us to analyze dna sequence around codon 12 of k-ras gene in small quantities of specimens obtained from needle biopsies and aspirate samples for pathological diagnosis . all the materials obtained from 12 patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma showed the mutations , whereas those obtained from 6 patients with chronic pancreatitis showed no mutations . in several cases using the mutations of k-ras gene as a marker , this analysis supplemented conventional pathology and cytology in making the diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma . the analysis of ras-gene mutations was useful for the clinical diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma . 
expression of class ii molecules on intestinal epithelial cells in humans . differences between normal and inflammatory bowel disease . expression of class ii antigens on human intestinal epithelial cells was assessed using a sensitive avidinbiotin-peroxidase technique . hla-dr was present predominantly in the normal small bowel with diminished but evident expression in the colon . hla-dp staining was less prominent , and hla-dq was absent . in inflammatory bowel disease the expression of both hla-dr and hla-dp was increased , but that for hla-dq remained absent , suggesting an inherent defect in the ability of intestinal epithelial cells to express hla-dq . in related experiments , an interferon gamma-treated malignant epithelial cell line t84 also failed to stain for hla-dq and hla-dp despite the presence of hla-dr . isolated rnas for all three subclasses of hla-d were detectable by slot-blot analysis , suggesting that the lack of hla-dq expression relates to posttranscriptional defects in intestinal epithelium . these and other differences with conventional class ii antigen-positive accessory cells ( macrophages/b cells ) may help to explain the unique properties of intestinal epithelial cells as antigen-presenting cells . 
screening colonoscopy in asymptomatic average-risk persons with negative fecal occult blood tests . colonoscopy was performed on 210 asymptomatic average-risk persons , aged 50-75 years , who had negative fecal occult blood test results . colonoscopy was complete to the cecum in 209 subjects . fifty-three subjects ( 25 % ) had adenomas and two had cancer . all of the adenomas greater than or equal to 1 cm in size and both cancers occurred in subjects aged greater than or equal to 60 years . fifty-one percent of subjects with adenomas and one with cancer had no neoplasms distal to the sigmoid-descending colon junction . one subject had a major postpolypectomy hemorrhage that stopped spontaneously . screening colonoscopy , therefore , has a high yield for detection of neoplasms in asymptomatic average-risk persons aged greater than or equal to 60 years with negative fecal occult blood test results . the yield is low in persons aged 50-54 years and intermediate in persons aged 55-59 years . 
modified van nes rotationplasty for osteosarcoma of the proximal tibia in children above-knee amputation has been the traditional treatment for osteosarcoma of the proximal tibia . recent advances in chemotherapy have encouraged the development of limb-salvage techniques . van nes rotationplasty for malignant lesions of the distal femur has increased in popularity as a reconstructive technique , but no similar procedure has been described for lesions of the proximal tibia . we have developed a modified rotationplasty for this lesion and have performed it in four children . the surgical technique , postoperative management and results of the procedure are described . two patients had delayed wound healing . no other complications have developed and our patients were disease-free at follow-up , while the appearance of the leg was well accepted by the patients and their parents . this procedure is a useful addition to the armamentarium of the tumour surgeon for the treatment of malignant lesions of the proximal tibia . 
parosteal osteosarcoma . treatment by wide resection and prosthetic replacement . we have reviewed 20 cases of parosteal osteosarcoma treated by wide local resection and prosthetic replacement and followed up for six to 17 years . limb function was excellent in 85 % . one patient with grade iii histological disease developed pulmonary metastases . four patients had local recurrences , which were related to repeated preliminary biopsies , inappropriate siting of biopsy and vascular encroachment by the tumour . after this mode of treatment , the outcome was not related to medullary invasion by the tumour . 
marjolin 's ulcer : a review and reevaluation of a difficult problem . the formation of an epidermoid carcinoma in nonhealing scar tissue , a marjolin 's ulcer , is a well described neoplasm . these lesions are , however , frequently overlooked and often inadequately treated . this paper reviews six cases of scar-tissue carcinoma . all lesions were secondary to various kinds of burns . four of the marjolin 's ulcers were well-differentiated squamous cell carcinomas . one was a moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma , and one was a malignant melanoma . the average age at presentation was 59 years , and the mean interval from time of burn injury to appearance of neoplasm was 36.8 years . the lesions varied in anatomic location and involved the upper extremities , lower extremities , and scalp . in addition to the case studies , this paper reviews the literature and provides a logical treatment plan for a patient with a marjolin 's ulcer . because these lesions can be very aggressive , a well thought-out treatment plan is necessary to optimize care and assure patient survival . 
embryologic fusion planes and the spread of cutaneous carcinoma : a review and reassessment . it has long been held that embryologic fusion planes influence the spread of skin cancer . embryologic fusion planes have been implicated in the depth of invasion , horizontal spread , and recurrence of cutaneous carcinoma . however , these structures have never been studied in detail . a review of the surgical literature reveals considerable confusion regarding the exact nature , location , and tumor interactions of these fusion planes . we review the gross and microscopic development of sites of embryologic fusion . we examine histologic sections through fusion sites in normally developed adult and fetal fresh cadaver specimens . our studies , supported by our review of developmental anatomy , indicate that fusion planes do not persist as identifiable anatomic structures that would influence tumor spread . 
effect of the topical anesthetic emla on the efficacy of pulsed dye laser treatment of port-wine stains . emla cream ( eutectic mixture of local anesthetics ) is a new topical anesthetic composed of 25 mg lidocaine and 25 mg prilocaine in an oil-in-water emulsion cream . it has been found to be very effective for local anesthesia prior to venepuncture , minor surgical procedures , and pulsed dye laser ( pdl ) therapy for port-wine stains ( pws ) in children . however , since emla may cause vasoconstriction of cutaneous vessels , we tried to determine whether pretreatment with emla decreases the efficacy of subsequent pdl treatment . we report eight patients between the ages of 4 and 32 years with pws who received two test site treatments prior to pdl treatment . one site was pretreated with emla cream under occlusion for 60 minutes and then left unoccluded for 15 minutes prior to pdl test treatment . the other site , in the same area of the pws and patient 's body , was not pretreated with emla . the test sites were compared 6-8 weeks later to determine whether emla decreased the degree of lightening of the pws compared to the non-emla-treated site . we conclude that emla is an effective topical anesthetic for pdl treatment of pws and does not adversely affect the efficacy of the treatment . 
use of mohs micrographic surgery to establish quantitative proof of heightened tumor spread in basal cell carcinoma recurrent following radiotherapy . we compared 27 basal-cell carcinomas ( bccs ) recurrent following radiotherapy and subsequently excised by mohs micrographic surgery to a control group of bccs recurrent following other treatment modalities and similarly excised . mohs technique permitted precise , quantitative tumor assessment , obtained via a novel method utilizing three parameters : the number of surgical stages required for complete excision , the percentage increase between clinical preoperative tumor area and final postoperative defect area , and the presence of deep subcutaneous tissue invasion . figures for the postradiation group were larger in all three categories , with the latter two revealing statistically significant differences versus the nonradiation group . this study gives strong , direct quantitative support to the clinical impression that bcc recurrent following radiotherapy is a uniquely aggressive , invasive subset of recurrent bcc . 
congenital midline nasal masses : diagnosis and management . congenital midline nasal masses ( cmnms ) are rare lesions most commonly caused by dermoids , hemangiomas , nasal gliomas or encephaloceles . we report a case of nasal glioma and discuss the embryologic development , evaluation , and management of such cmnms . 
complete spontaneous regression of multiple basal cell carcinomas in the basal cell nevus syndrome : the possible role of transepithelial elimination . a 36-year-old latin american man with the basal cell nevus syndrome had multiple , soft , hairless , depressed scars of the face , scalp , neck , and back , ranging in size from 0.3 x 0.5 cm to 3.5 x 3.9 cm . these areas had never been treated and previously were sites of basal cell carcinomas that underwent complete spontaneous regression 4-5 years from the date of onset . pathology of these spontaneously regressed sites was consistent with the criteria established by curson and weedon ( 1979 ) . type iii transepithelial elimination was demonstrated for a basal cell carcinoma . type iii transepithelial elimination may play a role in the spontaneous regression of basal cell carcinomas . 
new primary basal cell carcinomas arising in skin flaps following mohs micrographic surgery for primary and recurrent basal cell carcinoma . two patients developed new primary basal cell carcinomas ( bccs ) in skin flaps used to reconstruct wounds that followed an earlier primary bcc and a recurrent bcc treated by mohs micrographic surgery . criteria for distinguishing a new primary bcc arising in a skin flap or full-thickness skin graft at a previous treatment site for bcc from a truly recurrent bcc are presented . the distinction between a new primary bcc and true tumor recurrence is important for accurate clinical assessment and may have a dramatic impact on the type of subsequent treatment . in addition , there may be less medicolegal liability in the case of a new primary bcc arising at the site of a previously treated bcc than for a bcc that is determined to be recurrent . 
oral diseases in older adults [ clinical conference ] in the case presented , a 65-year-old man with multiple dental , medical , and social problems benefited from interdisciplinary assessment and treatment . despite his poor oral-health status and oral-health behaviors upon admission , patient education and dental therapy resulted in improved daily oral hygiene , elimination of oral diseases , and improved oral function . the overall quality of life of any individual , particularly an older one , can be enhanced through oral-disease prevention , health promotion , and , when indicated , dental therapy . this patient was treated in a hospital environment with a well-established team approach to geriatric care . however , regardless of the care setting , the physician can play a key role in improving the oral health status and quality of life of older adults by including an oral screening examination as part of the periodic comprehensive geriatric assessment , recognizing oral pathology , requesting dental consultations and encouraging appropriate dental service utilization . 
the gastrin hypothesis . implications for antisecretory drug selection . newer potent and long-acting inhibitors of acid secretion , such as the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole , are becoming available for general use . these drugs promise to control acid-peptic disease effectively in patients who do not respond adequately to conventional short-acting h2-receptor antagonists . the safety of chronic administration of these drugs has come into question , however . lifelong profound inhibition of acid secretion in rats induced by superpotent inhibitors of acid secretion or subtotal fundectomy is associated with the development of carcinoid tumors of enterochromaffin-like ( ecl ) cells in the gastric corpus . available evidence supports a role of gastrin , which becomes chronically elevated in animals subjected to prolonged and profound hypochlorhydria . in humans , hypergastrinemic states such as zollinger-ellison syndrome and atrophic gastritis are associated with an increased risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors . such observations have raised concern that humans may also be susceptible to carcinoid tumor formation in response to potent inhibitors of acid secretion . to date , however , no cases of carcinoid tumor have been attributed to the use of omeprazole in humans . if achlorhydric doses are not used , significant hypergastrinemia can be avoided while effectiveness of treatment is maintained . such measures should minimize any risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors in humans taking potent long-term antisecretory drugs . 
epitope mapping of human thyroglobulin . heterogeneous recognition by thyroid pathologic sera . thyroglobulin is the major ag of the thyroid gland involved in autoimmune pathologies . epitope mapping was carried out with a rabbit polyclonal immune serum against fusion proteins expressed in prokaryotic cells . after screening of an initial human thyroglobulin cdna library and subcloning of immunoreactive clones , seven epitopes were characterized and localized on the human thyroglobulin monomeric molecule . one was close to each extremity of the molecule , and five others were concentrated in the middle , covering a sixth of this 2748-amino-acid chain . the immunoreactivities of 18 autoimmune sera from different thyroid pathologies were tested against the seven previously characterized epitopes . those from hashimoto 's thyroiditis were the most immunoreactive . immune responses were heterogeneous for sera from different pathologies as well as for those from the same pathology . the central epitopes and the near-c-terminal epitope , however , were the epitopes most often recognized by the immune sera . these findings show that some autoepitopes overlap accurately with some heteroepitopes characterized by a polyclonal immune serum directed against the mature protein . 
growth factor-dependent differentiation along the myeloid and lymphoid lineages in an immature acute t lymphocytic leukemia . bone marrow cells from a child with an immature ( cd2 + , cd5 + , cd7 + ) acute t lymphocytic leukemia ( t-all ) were cultured in the presence and absence of human ril-2 , il-3 , or granulocyte-macrophage ( gm ) - csf . cells cultured without growth factors failed to divide and those initiated in the presence of il-2 or gm-csf underwent maturation and terminal t lymphoid or myelomonocytic differentiation , respectively . in contrast , a permanent growth factor-dependent cell line , designated tall-103 / 3 , was established upon culture in il-3 . the tall-103 / 3 cells gradually lost the t cell-specific markers and acquired a myeloid phenotype ( cd15 + , cd33 + ) . switching of the il-3-dependent cells at an early passage to medium containing only human ril-2 resulted in the establishment of a subline , named tall-103 / 2 , with a t lymphoid phenotype ( cd3 + , cd8 + , tcr-gamma delta + , cd7 + ) . the tall-103 / 2 cells strictly require il-2 for growth , are irreversibly committed to the lymphoid lineage , and can not survive in the presence of any other hemopoietic growth factor tested so far . in contrast , the il-3-dependent tall-103 / 3 cells could be adapted to grow in synthetic ( serum-free ) medium also in the presence of either gm-csf or il-5 , in which they retain a myeloid phenotype . interestingly , after 18 mo in culture in il-3 , the tall-103 / 3 cells can still be phenotypically converted to the lymphoid lineage upon addition of il-2 , thus maintaining its bipotentiality . despite the marked phenotypic differences , the tall-103 / 2 and tall-103 / 3 cell lines show the same karyotypes with multiple abnormalities present in the primary malignant clone and have identical rearrangements of the tcr-gamma and - delta loci , thus confirming their derivation from a common precursor cell . together , these findings indicate that the phenotype of immature t-all cells can be drastically modified by the presence of specific hemopoietic growth factors in the environment , leading to either lymphoid or myeloid lineage commitment while leaving their karyotype and genotype intact . 
antigen-induced cross-linking of the ige receptor leads to an association with the detergent-insoluble membrane skeleton of rat basophilic leukemia ( rbl-2h3 ) cells . cross-linking of the ige receptor on the surface of rat basophilic leukemia cells by multivalent ag ( dnp-bsa ) causes a rapid conversion to a detergent-insoluble form . there is a concurrent increase in the amount of filamentous actin associated with the plasma membrane . both the degree of receptor detergent insolubility and the rise in f-actin content are rapid with a half-maximal response of less than 1 min and can be rapidly reversed by the addition of monovalent ag ( dnp-lysine ) . these two early steps in the triggering of rat basophilic leukemia cells can be dissociated from each other by pretreatment of the cells with either cytochalasin or sodium azide . these reagents block the increase in f-actin but have no effect on receptor detergent insolubility . this indicates that microfilaments are not responsible for detergent insolubility of the receptor and that it may be the membrane skeleton that is interacting with the complex . this was further confirmed by the finding that cross-linking of the ige receptors on the surface of purified plasma membranes also leads to detergent insolubility of the receptor . therefore , all of the components necessary for detergent insolubility of the receptor are present in the plasma membrane , and cytoplasmic components are not needed . these results suggest that detergent insolubility and immobility of the cross-linked receptors are caused by multivalent interaction with the membrane skeleton . actin filaments may then interact with these receptor-membrane skeletal complexes in order to produce large scale clustering and capping . the membrane skeleton may therefore be acting as an intermediate structure between the cell-surface receptors and microfilaments . 
mapping the site of interaction between murine ige and its high affinity receptor with chimeric ig . we have investigated the interaction of mouse ( m ) ige with its fc epsilon ri on rat basophilic leukemia cells using a set of chimeric ig that were constructed by exchanging homologous h chain c domains between human ( hu ) igg1 and mige . binding affinities were examined with equilibrium and kinetic measurements , and we found that epsilon/c gamma 3 ( mige with c epsilon 4 replaced by c gamma 3 ) was indistinguishable from mige . the huigg1 and the other chimeric ig , which did not contain both c epsilon 2 and c epsilon 3 , did not bind detectably to rat basophilic leukemia cells ( ka less than 10 ( 6 ) m-1 ) . the ability of these chimeric ig to stimulate a cellular response ( degranulation ) in the presence of multivalent ag was also tested . the epsilon/c gamma 3 was indistinguishable from mige in eliciting a high level of degranulation , whereas the other chimeric ig stimulated no response even when they were preaggregated to enhance their binding avidity . these results demonstrate that c epsilon 4 may be replaced by c gamma 3 without affecting the binding and cell activating properties of mige . the lack of binding by the other chimeric ig indicates that both c epsilon 2 and c epsilon 3 are necessary for the binding interaction . 
ige receptor-mediated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis and exocytosis from rat basophilic leukemia cells are independent of extracellular ca2 + in a hypotonic buffer containing a high concentration of k + . in isotonic buffer , ige receptor-mediated exocytosis from rat basophilic leukemia cells is dependent on extracellular ca2 + , with half-maximal degranulation requiring 0.4 mm ca2 + . no significant exocytosis occurs in the absence of extracellular ca2 + . this absolute requirement for ca2 + is eliminated by suspending the cells in a hypotonic buffer containing 60 to 80 mm k + ; na + can not substitute for k + . optimal ca2 ( + ) - independent exocytosis occurs in a buffer containing 20 mm dipotassium pipes , ph 7.1 , 40 mm kcl , 5 mm glucose , 7 mm mg acetate , 0.1 % bsa , and 1 mm egta . the cells maintain this ca2 ( + ) - independent exocytosis even if they are preincubated with 1 mm egta for 40 min at 37 degrees c before triggering . exocytosis is eliminated as isotonicity is approached by adding sucrose , nacl , kcl , or potassium glutamate to the buffer . quin 2 fluorescence measurements reveal only a very small rise in [ ca2 + ] i when the cells are triggered in hypotonic buffer in the absence of extracellular ca2 + and the presence of 1 mm egta . in isotonic buffer , degranulation does not occur under conditions that lead to such a small rise in [ ca2 + ] i. sustained ige receptor-mediated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis , which is also ca2 + dependent in isotonic buffer , becomes independent of ca2 + in the hypotonic buffer . in fact , the rate of phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis in hypotonic buffer in the absence of ca2 + ( and presence of 1 mm egta ) is twice that observed in isotonic buffer in the presence of 1 mm ca2 + . these data show that in hypotonic buffer , the requirement of ige receptor-mediated pi hydrolysis for extracellular ca2 + is eliminated , and degranulation proceeds with a [ ca2 + ] i of 0.1 microm , the baseline level of [ ca2 + ] i found in resting cells . these results are consistent with the hypothesis that , in isotonic buffer , the ca2 + requirement for mast cell degranulation is for the generation of second messengers via hydrolysis of membrane phosphatidylinositols . 
primary intratemporal tumours of the facial nerve : diagnosis and treatment . benign primary tumours of the facial nerve are uncommon . a slowly progressive facial palsy should be considered the result of a nerve tumour until proven otherwise . improvements in diagnostic imaging techniques of the temporal bone have increased the possibility of a correct pre-operative diagnosis but facial nerve tumours remain a frequently ignored or misdiagnosed entity as a consequence of their subtle and protean clinical manifestations . a series of 12 cases of primary facial nerve tumours is presented . the clinical features , diagnostic modalities and treatment are discussed in relation to a review of the literature . 
technetium-99m ( v ) dimercaptosuccinic acid planar scintigraphy in head and neck cancer : clinical , scintigraphic and radiological study . technetium-99m ( tc99m ) ( v ) dimercaptosuccinic acid ( dmsa ) is an imaging agent which has been proposed as a scintigraphic marker for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma . fifty-four patients were studied of whom 51 had a head and neck tumour . all patients were examined and then imaged using tc99m ( v ) dmsa scintigraphy and computerized tomography . scintigraphy was less sensitive than clinical examination in the detection of patients with cancer , patients with primary tumours and patients with metastatic neck disease . ct was as sensitive and as accurate as clinical examination but more sensitive than tc99m ( v ) dmsa in detecting patients with cancer and with primary tumours . ct was more sensitive and more accurate than both clinical examination and tc99m ( v ) dmsa scintigraphy in predicting which patients had metastatic neck disease . although tc99m ( v ) dmsa is accumulated by squamous cell carcinoma , its inability to detect low volume disease and apparent low specificity means it has no role to play in the management of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma . 
monomorphic adenomas of the major salivary glands : clinicopathological study of 44 cases . we report 44 cases of monomorphic adenoma ( ma ) of the major salivary glands observed during the years 1979-1989 . all of these tumours were reviewed and classified on the basis of the world health organisation ( who ) criteria . histological type , site , sex and age were considered . 34 cases of adenolymphoma were observed , all of them located in the parotid glands ; 10 ma without lymphoid stroma were located in both parotid and submandibular glands . distinctive histological and clinico-pathological features of the latter group of tumours are discussed , as well as the diagnostic criteria in distinguishing these tumours from pleomorphic adenoma and adenoid-cystic carcinoma . 
tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesions of the head and neck . the term ' tumefactive fibroinflammatory lesion ' has been used to describe a fibrosclerosing disorder which has a locally destructive nature but is characterized by a benign histological appearance . we report five patients , over a five year period , with such a lesion . the clinical behaviour and surgical findings suggest the lesion to be an invasive malignancy . however , the histological appearance of an admixture of chronic inflammatory cells and fibrosis is consistent with a benign condition . we recommend surgical excision of the lesion as the mainstay of treatment ; other studies report the use of steroids and radiotherapy . 
osteoma of the middle ear . osteomas involving the middle ear and causing a functional disturbance are rare . we report a case of a patient with an osteoma arising from the lateral semicircular canal . the main symptom was vertigo and to halt this the defect of the canal was obliterated with a bone chip and fibrin glue after removal of the tumour . 
auro-nasopharyngeal polyp and cholesteatoma . we report the association of an auronasopharyngeal polyp arising in a congenitally abnormal middle ear and eustachian tube . subsequently , ten years after removal of the polyp and insertion of a ventilation tube , there was recurrence of the polyp in association with cholesteatoma of the middle ear . 
giant enterocystoma within an infant 's tongue . a rare developmental cyst within the tongue and submandibular triangle of a male infant containing heterotopic gastric and intestinal epithelium ( enterocystoma ) is described and its derivation discussed . this cyst was of such a size as to cause feeding difficulties and partial airway obstruction during sleep . following c.t. scanning , total obstruction necessitated an emergency tracheostomy . successful enucleation via a median labiomandibulotomy was performed without further complication and two years later there is no sign of recurrence . 
direct extension of laryngeal carcinoma to the skin of the neck . invasion of the skin of the neck by laryngeal carcinoma is relatively uncommon . twelve cases of cancer of the larynx fungating through the cervical skin are presented . they mostly followed initial treatment by deep x-ray therapy or partial laryngectomy . a high tracheostomy was also considered to be a contributing cause for the occurrence of such a mishap . the management and follow-up of these patients is described . 
late development of a squamous carcinoma in a reconstructed pharynx . we report a case in which a squamous cell carcinoma was found to have arisen from a delto-pectoral skin flap used in pharyngeal reconstruction . the flap had been forming a neo-pharynx for 24 years . no other signs of recurrent disease had developed in this period . this raises the possibility of tumour induction in heterotopic skin used for oropharyngeal reconstruction . 
haemangiosarcoma of the maxillary antrum . angiosarcomas are extremely rare in the head and neck and the histological diagnosis is often difficult . we present a case of a haemangiosarcoma of the maxillary antrum in a 33 year old male . the histological diagnosis and subsequent management are discussed . 
enhanced hepatic drug clearance in patients with cystic fibrosis . to examine whether hepatic drug metabolism is altered in patients with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) , we evaluated the pharmacokinetics of three model pharmacologic substrates ( antipyrine , a marker of hepatic oxidative metabolism ; lorazepam , a marker of hepatic glucuronosyltransferase activity ; and indocyanine green ( icg ) , a marker of hepatic blood flow and biliary secretion ) in 14 patients with cf ( 14.6 to 29.2 years of age ) and in 12 children and adolescents with cancer ( 7.2 to 19.4 years of age ) , which was treated with only surgery and radiation . each study subject received a single intravenous dose of the combined model substrates ( 0.03 mg/kg lorazepam , 10 mg/kg antipyrine , and 0.5 mg/kg icg ) for 5 minutes , followed by repeated blood sampling ( n = 10 ) during a 24-hour postinfusion period . patients with cf had a significantly greater plasma clearance of lorazepam ( 56.5 + / - 5.2 vs 25.9 + / - 1.9 ml/min/m2 ) and icg ( 892.5 + / - 176.4 vs 256.5 + / - 41.7 ml/min/m2 ) but not of antipyrine ( 27.2 + / - 3.8 vs 20.7 + / - 2.0 ml/min/m2 ) in comparison with control subjects . the apparent steady-state volume of distribution for lorazepam , icg , and antipyrine was significantly higher in the patients with cf ( 2.0 - , 3.1 - , and 1.4-fold , respectively ) than in control subjects . clearance of the model substrates did not correlate with standard biochemical markers of hepatic function . similarly , no significant relationships were observed between the clearance or steady-state volume of distribution of the compounds and the national institutes of health prognostic scores for the patients with cf. these data demonstrate that the plasma clearance of lorazepam and icg is increased in patients with cf and suggest that hepatic glucuronosyltransferase activity and biliary secretory capacity are enhanced in this disease . 
vaginal removal of the pedunculated submucous myoma . historical observations and development of a new procedure . a new method of vaginal removal of submucous fibroids was attempted on 151 patients . the procedure involves dilation of the cervix with laminaria tents and removal of the submucous fibroid by grasping with appropriate instruments . myomas were removed successfully in 92 % of the patients ; hysterectomy and abdominal myomectomy were avoided in all but four of them . perforation occurred in two patients . morbidity was minimal . the four patients who desired pregnancy conceived . 
laser therapy for vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia after hysterectomy . in recent years there has been a marked increase in the number of reported cases of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia ( vain ) after hysterectomy . until about 10 years ago radiation or surgery had been the therapeutic modality mostly used for this disease . more recently , topical drugs , such as bleomycin and 5-fluorouracil cream , have been used , but they are often ineffective and poorly tolerated . for the last 14 years we have used the co2 laser for the treatment of vain and have treated a total of 143 patients . our use of a combination of wire sutures through the vaginal mucosa and the introduction of fluids into the underlying submucosal areas allows retraction and ballooning of the recesses and scars and permits us to place the vaginal mucosa at right angles to the laser beam to allow complete treatment . 
the cytobrush for evaluating routine cervicovaginal-endocervical smears . while the conventional wooden spatula/cotton-tipped applicator has remained the method of obtaining papanicolaou smears for most clinicians at the university of california at los angeles , the student health service ( shs ) adopted the zelsmyr cytobrush as its sole method of obtaining cervical samples in late 1986 . a study was done to define changes in both the adequacy of sampling and the detection rate for both squamous and glandular epithelial abnormalities with the cytobrush . to accomplish this goal , 1,000 cytobrush and 244 conventionally obtained smears were analyzed prospectively , and 3,864 shs samples obtained in 1986 prior to the change in method were reviewed retrospectively . as compared to cervical samples obtained by conventional methods , the cytobrush smears contained significantly more endocervical cells and had fewer drying artifacts . both methods obtained equivalent squamous samples and had similar final class distributions . no case of endocervical adenocarcinoma carcinoma in situ or invasive adenocarcinoma was detected . shs patients who had initial " no endocervical cells " samples but whose repeat sample did contain endocervical cells retained the same class in more than 75 % of cases . this study confirmed that the cytobrush technique produces papanicolaou smears with improved sampling of the squamocolumnar junction but questioned whether that results in an increased detection rate for cervical pathology . 
carcinosarcoma and spindle cell carcinoma of the lung . clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical studies . we examined pulmonary carcinomas with prominent sarcoma-like lesions both clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically . grossly , two tumors had predominantly endobronchial growths , four bulky parenchymal growths , and two endobronchial , parenchymally mixed growths . in these eight patients , six tumors were completely resected , one patient was given irradiation only , and one patient died in the early postoperative period . on the basis of specific differentiation of the sarcoma-like lesions , the tumors were separated into three groups : two with " true " sarcoma differentiated into soft tissues such as striated muscle or osteoid tissue ; three with a fibromatous sarcoma resembling atypical pseudosarcomatous stroma ; and three with spindle cell carcinoma with evidence of epithelial differentiation . the prognosis was poor , and tumors with specific differentiation into rhabdomyosarcoma , chondrosarcoma , or spindle cell carcinoma progressed more rapidly than did those with a fibromatous sarcoma . because the fibromatous sarcoma-like lesions were found to relate to a longer survival time for the patients , we wish to emphasize that a distinction of sarcomatous components should be made with regard to assessing the prognosis of pulmonary carcinoma with sarcoma-like lesions . 
utility of frozen-section evaluation of lymph nodes in the staging of bronchogenic carcinoma at mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy . we conducted a retrospective analysis of the utility of frozen-section diagnoses in determining lymph node status at mediastinoscopy in 122 consecutive patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . thirty-five of 122 patients had one or more lymph nodes with frozen-section evaluation positive for metastatic carcinoma . subsequent nodal sections not in the original frozen-section study revealed metastatic carcinoma in two additional patients . the false-negative rate was 1.6 % . sensitivity was 94.6 % . predictive value of negative frozen-section evaluation results was 97.7 % . because there were no false-positive frozen-section results , specificity and predictive value for positive results of frozen-section evaluation were 100 % . the statuses of individual lymph nodes from these 122 patients were also evaluated . six hundred twenty lymph nodes were sampled from the mediastinum at mediastinoscopy . frozen-sections in 47 lymph nodes were positive . subsequent nodal sections not in the original frozen-sections examination revealed metastatic carcinoma in four additional lymph nodes . the false-negative rate was 0.6 % . sensitivity was 92.2 % . predictive value of negative results from frozen-section evaluation was 99.3 % . because there were no false-positive frozen-section results , specificity and predictive value for positive results of frozen-section examination were 100 % . we conclude that frozen-section evaluation of lymph nodes at mediastinoscopy reliably indicates lymph node status , thus enabling the physician to decide whether to proceed to thoracotomy . thus staging of the carcinoma and definitive surgery can be accomplished during a single anesthetic procedure . combining mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy with frozen-section diagnostic control also reduces both the length and cost of hospitalization . 
diagnostic significance of carcinoembryonic antigen in the differential diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma . the histologic and cytologic distinction of malignant mesothelioma from carcinomas metastatic to the pleura or peritoneum is often problematic . for this reason immunologic methods are being increasingly used as diagnostic adjuncts . this review summarizes 40 studies on the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen in mesotheliomas and in lung and other carcinomas involving the pleura or peritoneum . carcinoembryonic antigen was identified immunohistochemically in 11 % of mesotheliomas and in 84 % of carcinomas examined and immunocytochemically ( in serous effusions ) in 4 % and 58 % , respectively . in serum and in pleural or ascitic fluid , significantly elevated levels of carcinoembryonic antigen are commonly associated with ( lung ) carcinomas but rarely with mesotheliomas . thus , together with identification of the antigen in serum , pleural fluid , or ascitic fluid , immunohistochemical and immunocytochemical techniques for detecting carcinoembryonic antigen provide a valuable aid for distinguishing malignant mesothelioma from metastatic carcinomas . 
primary osteosarcoma of the lung . report of two cases and review of the literature . two cases of primary osteosarcoma of the lung are presented . in one case , the radiologic , clinical , and cytologic findings led to a preoperative diagnosis of undifferentiated carcinoma of the lung . in the second case , a lung nodule was discovered during postchemotherapy follow-up in a patient with lymphoma . fine needle aspiration in the second case showed lymphoma , and further chemotherapy was instituted ; however , persistent growth of the nodule prompted a resection . microscopic examination of the resected tumors in both cases revealed histologic features of high-grade osteosarcoma . flow cytometric analyses of the primary tumors showed abnormal hyperdiploid deoxyribonucleic acid populations in accordance with those seen in high-grade malignant neoplasms . immunohistochemical studies supported a mesenchymal origin for these tumors . these tumors shared clinical features with other reported cases of primary osteosarcoma of the lung such as large size at diagnosis , occurrence in older individuals , and aggressive behavior . 
common nonvenereal genital lesions . there are a wide variety of local and systemic skin diseases that produce lesions in the genitoanal region . these lesions may resemble those produced by sexually transmitted microorganisms . the purpose of this article is to make physicians aware of the common skin diseases that produce lesions on the genitalia to avoid the inappropriate diagnosis of a sexually transmitted disease . 
human recombinant gm-csf in allogeneic bone-marrow transplantation for leukaemia : double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . in a randomised , double-blind trial 20 patients with leukaemia received human recombinant granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) and 20 received placebo , for 14 days after allogeneic , matched sibling , bone-marrow transplantation . the neutrophil count recovered to 0.5 x 10 ( 9 ) / l 3 days earlier in the gm-csf group than in the placebo group ( not significant ) , and the median neutrophil count at 14 days was significantly higher in the gm-csf group ( 1.90 vs 0.46 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . the lymphocyte count was significantly higher in the gm-csf than in the placebo group between days 10 and 15 after transplantation , but this difference was not associated with a higher incidence of graft-versus-host disease . there was no evidence that gm-csf was associated with a greater incidence of leukaemic relapse . the gm-csf group had lower haemoglobin concentrations and platelet counts and higher plasma urea , creatinine , and bilirubin than the placebo group . the duration of hospital stay was the same for both patient groups . further studies are now indicated to assess the overall effect of gm-csf on outcome after allogeneic bone-marrow transplantation . 
paraneoplastic pemphigus . an autoimmune mucocutaneous disease associated with neoplasia . background and methods . we describe five patients with underlying neoplasms in whom painful mucosal ulcerations and polymorphous skin lesions developed , usually with progression to blistering eruptions on the trunk and extremities . histologic examination showed vacuolization of epidermal basal cells , keratinocyte necrosis , and acantholysis . immunofluorescence testing revealed atypical pemphigus-like autoantibodies in perilesional epithelium and serum from all five patients . we studied the antigenic specificities of the autoantibodies by indirect immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation , using extracts of 14c-labeled human keratinocytes . igg purified from the serum of one patient was passively transferred to four neonatal mice to test for pathogenicity . results . immunofluorescence testing showed that the autoantibodies bound to the surface of tissues containing desmosomes , including complex and simple epithelia , and myocardium . an identical and unique complex of four polypeptides with molecular weights of 250 , 230 , 210 , and 190 was immunoprecipitated by all serum samples . the 250-kd polypeptide comigrated with desmoplakin i ( a protein found in the desmosomes of all epithelia ) , and the 230-kd antigen comigrated with the antigen of bullous pemphigoid . cutaneous blisters , a positive nikolsky 's sign , and epidermal and esophageal acantholysis developed in all mice into which the autoantibody was injected . electron microscopy showed epidermal acantholysis similar to lesions of experimentally induced pemphigus vulgaris . conclusion . these five patients with cancer had a novel acantholytic mucocutaneous disease characterized by autoantibodies that were pathogenic after passive transfer . the autoantibodies from these patients reacted with an antigen complex composed of desmoplakin i and the 230-kd antigen of bullous pemphigoid and two as yet unidentified epithelial antigens . we suggest the term " paraneoplastic pemphigus " for this disease . 
synthetic analogues of fumagillin that inhibit angiogenesis and suppress tumour growth . neovascularization is critical for the growth of tumours and is a dominant feature in a variety of angiogenic diseases such as diabetic retinopathy , haemangiomas , arthritis and psoriasis . recognition of the potential therapeutic benefit of controlling unabated capillary growth has led to a search for safe and effective angiogenesis inhibitors . we report here the synthesis of a family of novel inhibitors that are analogues of fumagillin , a naturally secreted antibiotic of aspergillus fumigatus fresenius . we first isolated this fungus from a contaminated culture of capillary endothelial cells . purified fumagillin inhibited endothelial cell proliferation in vitro and tumour-induced angiogenesis in vivo ; it also inhibited tumour growth in mice , but prolonged administration was limited because it caused severe weight loss . synthesis of fumagillin analogues yielded potent angiogenesis inhibitors ( ' angioinhibins ' ) which suppress the growth of a wide variety of tumours with relatively few side-effects . 
hippocampal sclerosis can be reliably detected by magnetic resonance imaging . two independent blinded observers reported the preoperative mris in a series of 81 consecutive patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy who were undergoing temporal lobectomy . we then compared the nature and lateralization of the mri abnormalities with the pathologic diagnosis and the side of lobectomy . the mri criteria of hippocampal sclerosis were an increased t2-weighted signal and the signal 's confinement to a unilaterally small hippocampus . imaging was performed in coronal and axial planes , specially orientated along and perpendicular to the long axis of the hippocampal body . we found diagnostic mri abnormalities in 25 of the 27 cases with pathologically proven hippocampal sclerosis ( sensitivity 93 % , specificity 86 % ) . in addition , we detected all 13 foreign tissue lesions on mri . overall , we detected lateralized lesions on mri that correctly predicted the side of the epileptogenic temporal lobe in 72 cases ( 89 % ) , with 2 possible errors . a learning effect in appreciating the relatively subtle mri changes of hippocampal sclerosis was apparent in our later cases , as shown by an improved correlation between the 2 observers . this study demonstrates that hippocampal sclerosis can be identified on mri with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity . 
large cystic optic glioma . a 5 1/2 - year-old boy developed a huge cyst in his chiasmal glioma 4 years after radiation therapy . the cyst produced obtundation but was successfully treated . 
purification and characterization of an inhibitor ( soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor ) for tumor necrosis factor and lymphotoxin obtained from the serum ultrafiltrates of human cancer patients . serum ultrafiltrates ( suf ) from human patients with different types of cancer contain a blocking factor ( bf ) that inhibits the cytolytic activity of human tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) in vitro . bf is a protein with a molecular mass of 28 kda on reducing sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ( sds/page ) . the active material was purified to homogeneity by a combination of affinity chromatography , page , and high-pressure liquid chromatography . amino acid sequence analysis revealed that bf is derived from the membrane tnf receptor . purified bf blocks the lytic activity of recombinant human and mouse tnf-alpha and recombinant human lymphotoxin on murine l929 cells in vitro . however , bf inhibits the lytic activity of tnf-alpha more effectively than it does that of lymphotoxin . the bf also inhibits the necrotizing activity of recombinant human tnf-alpha when coinjected into established cutaneous meth a tumors in balb/c mice . the bf may have an important role in ( i ) the regulation and control of tnf-alpha and lymphotoxin activity in cancer patients , ( ii ) interaction between the tumor and the host antitumor mechanisms , and ( iii ) use of systemically administered tnf-alpha in clinical trials with human cancer patients . 
epstein-barr virus small nuclear rnas are not expressed in permissively infected cells in aids-associated leukoplakia . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) dna structure and gene expression were analyzed in tissue specimens from oral hairy leukoplakia ( hlp ) , a mucocutaneous lesion that develops in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . the structure of the terminal restriction enzyme fragments of ebv revealed that hlp is a permissive infection without a predominant , detectable population of ebv episomal dna . in rna preparations from this uniquely permissive infection , ebv replicative mrnas could be identified by northern analysis ; however , the virally encoded small nuclear rnas , the ebers , were not detected in most hlp rna preparations . in situ hybridization detected eber expression in very rare cells . these data indicate that unlike other viral small nuclear rnas , the ebers are not expressed during viral replication and must participate in the complex maintenance of latent ebv infection . 
overexpression of normal and mutated forms of hras induces orthotopic bladder invasion in a human transitional cell carcinoma . recent studies have shown that orthotopic ( transurethral ) transplantation of human bladder cancer cell lines into nude mice permits tumor growth that accurately reflects their clinical malignant status in the original host . thus , such a system allows a unique opportunity to analyze the genetic events involved in the conversion of low-grade bladder cancer , the vast majority of which are curable , to the high-grade life-threatening form of the disease . since 5-10 % of transitional cell carcinomas ( tccs ) have been shown to contain a mutated hras gene , and protein expression levels of all forms of hras have been correlated with tcc progression , we chose to study the contribution of the hras oncogene in bladder tumor progression . we evaluated the effects of transfection of normal or mutated hras genes into a human tcc , called rt-4 , that behaves as a superficial noninvasive papillary tumor after transurethral orthotopic inoculation into athymic nude mice . we found that overexpression of either transfected normal or mutated hras genes converted rt-4 cells to express an invasive phenotype remarkably similar in nature to the clinical behavior of high-grade bladder carcinomas . these results suggest a role for overexpressed normal or mutated ras genes in human bladder carcinoma progression , and highlight the importance of using orthotopic inoculation systems for evaluation of the contribution of oncogenes to malignant tumor progression . 
congenital biliary tract disease . jaundice in the pediatric patient requires prompt and directed evaluation . this dictum is highlighted in infants with biliary atresia , in whom the progressive sclerosing process results in complete obliteration of patent but microscopic hilar biliary structures by 4 months of age . kasai 's operation , if done before that time , will re-establish bile drainage in 90 % of infants . one fourth to one third of patients achieve long-term jaundice-free survival . complications of cholangitis , portal hypertension , and fat malabsorption are experienced by many patients . in children with early or late operative failure , liver replacement now offers legitimate hope for extended survival . choledochal cyst is a conglomerate of pancreaticobiliary anomalies consisting of a choledochal cyst , a common-channel-type pancreaticobiliary junction , intrahepatic cystic disease , and partial obstruction of the distal common bile duct . many patients have one or more of these malformations . it is now widely accepted that the preferred treatment of choledochal cyst is total excision of the diseased biliary duct with reconstruction by roux-en-y choledochojejunostomy . " internal " excision avoids injury to other structures in the hepatoduodenal ligament , particularly if pericystic inflammation is present . congenital perforation of the common bile duct responds in most cases to simple peritoneal drainage of the perforation . retention of the tube cholecystostomy is useful for subsequent cholangiographic follow-up . tube cholecystostomy may also be useful for irrigation of the biliary tract in infants with inspissated bile syndrome . 
cholangiocarcinoma . the diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma can now be made with greater rapidity and accuracy . in the clinical setting of obstructive jaundice , a ct scan or sonogram may suggest cholangiocarcinoma if dilated intrahepatic ducts are seen with a nondilated extrahepatic biliary tree . the diagnosis is confirmed by cholangiography , and the tumor is staged by the combination of cholangiography and angiography . if the tumor extensively involves both lobes of the liver or involves the main portal vein or hepatic artery , the lesion is considered unresectable . these patients are best palliated nonoperatively , but they should still have an attempt at a tissue diagnosis , as various other lesions can masquerade as cholangiocarcinoma . in comparison , if the tumor is confined to or is distal to the hepatic duct bifurcation , extends into only one lobe of the liver , or involves only the right or the left portal vein or hepatic artery , the lesion may be resectable , and exploration is indicated . as many as half of all patients explored with curative intent will have a successful resection . various surgical options are appropriate for patients undergoing tumor resection , depending on the site and extent of the lesion . similarly , several surgical options are possible for palliation in patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma . the role of radiotherapy in the management of cholangiocarcinoma is uncertain . our results , like those of many other retrospective analyses , suggest that radiotherapy prolongs survival after curative resection as well as after palliative stenting . however , further data from randomized studies are necessary to support or refute this impression . further studies of adjuvant chemotherapy or hormonal therapy will also be necessary to improve patient survival . 
lithiumogenic disorders of the thyroid and parathyroid glands as surgical disease . little notice has been paid in the surgical literature to problems with psychoeffective lithium , which by interfering with adenylate cyclase affects thyroid and parathyroid function , causing hypercalcemia , hyperparathyroidism , and hypothyroidism . seven patients with lithiumogenic hyperparathyroidism occurring after years of lithium therapy underwent treatment and manifested osteoporosis ( n = 2 ) , hypertension ( n = 2 ) , nephrolithiasis ( n = 1 ) , coma ( n = 1 ) , rising hypercalcemia ( n = 1 ) , goitrous myxedema ( n = 4 ) , nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ( n = 2 ) , renal failure ( n = 2 ) , and hyperlipidemia ( n = 1 ) . disease-directed parathyroidectomy ( without morbidity ) was curative . unique laboratory findings included normal serum phosphorus and reduced urinary calcium and cyclic adenosine monophosphate values . three separate cases of thyroid carcinoma after long-term lithium therapy were also treated , being preceded by myxedema ( n = 2 ) and concurrent with hyperparathyroidism ( n = 1 ) . there has been only one previous report of lithium-associated thyroid carcinoma . all patients taking lithium should undergo surveillance for thyroid and parathyroid dysfunction and neoplasia , and appropriate surgical and medical treatment should be considered in each situation . although hyperparathyroidism may be reversible with lithium discontinuance , such therapy may be obligatory for patient well-being , thus dictating parathyroidectomy . 
multiple parathyroid adenomas : report of thirty-three cases . an increasing number of patients with primary hyperparathyroidism are found to have two or three enlarged parathyroid glands . of 865 patients successfully operated on by one surgeon ( j.n.a. ) , multiple enlarged parathyroid glands ( adenomas ) were found and resected in 33 cases ( 3.8 % ) , with resulting normocalcemia lasting from 1 to 22 years ( mean 5.8 ) . twenty-nine patients had two adenomas and four had three adenomas . in 28 patients the multiple adenomas were synchronous . twenty-five patients underwent removal of all of the enlarged parathyroid glands in one operation ; in three patients one adenoma was removed , reoperation for persistent hypercalcemia was performed , and a second adenoma was resected with cure . in five patients one adenoma was removed , normocalcemia ensued for 3 to 18 years , and a second ( metachronous ) adenoma occurred and was resected successfully . although 10 of 70 enlarged parathyroid glands removed were labeled hyperplasia , cure in all but one of our patients by selective resection of only enlarged parathyroid glands emphasizes the unreliability of histologic criteria in differentiating between parathyroid adenoma and hyperplasia . based on this study , we support the existence of multiple adenomas and advocate removal of only macroscopically enlarged parathyroid glands in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . 
endosonography in the localization of parathyroid tumors : a preliminary study . a preoperative transesophageal exploration of the parathyroids by endosonography was performed on 23 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . the system used was a 7.5 mhz transducer mounted on the tip of an endoscope with an external diameter of 13 mm . the field of visualization was 360 degrees . a retrograde exploration was done moving up from the aortic arch to the upper esophageal sphincter . all patients underwent surgery afterward , and adenomas were found . in 12 cases the adenoma was visualized . all 12 adenomas were posteriorly located on the right side ( four cases ) and left side ( eight cases ) of the esophagus . nine of these 12 tumors were on the posterior face of the thyroid lobes , with six tumors in the middle one third of the thyroid lobe and three in the lower one third of the thyroid lobe . the other three tumors were located below the lower pole of the thyroid lobes in the upper posterior mediastinum . mean tumor weight was 1165 mg . of the 11 tumors that could not be visualized , eight tumors were anteriorly located ; three of these tumors were on the anterior and lateral surface of the lower pole of the thyroid , and five were in the thyrothymic tracts . the remaining three tumors were located on the back of the thyroid lobes ; two of these tumors were at the upper esophageal sphincter , and one was on the side of the pharynx . mean tumor size was 1334 mg . localization of parathyroid tumors by endosonography appears possible but only if lesions are located posteriorly , close to the esophagus . endosonography is not indicated before routine cervical exploration for primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism . as in other such studies , endosonography could be useful in cases of persistent or recurrent hyperparathyroidism . 
function in athymic nude mice of parathyroid heterografts from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism and secondary hyperparathyroidism . heterotransplantation of adenomatous parathyroid glandular tissue from humans with primary hyperparathyroidism into athymic nude mice creates a unique animal model of this disease . the mice manifest high concentrations of both midregion/c-terminal human parathyroid hormone and biologically active intact human parathyroid hormone relative to either mice with no implants or mice that received normal human parathyroid tissue . secretion of these substances is maintained in most mice for at least 9 to 13 months after implantation . in addition , animals that have experienced implantation exhibit other characteristics associated with human primary hyperparathyroidism including relative hypercalcemia and increased renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d-1 alpha-hydroxylase activity . we also measured these parameters in a group of nude mice that received transplantation of a similar mass of hyperplastic parathyroid tissue that was obtained from patients with uremic secondary hyperparathyroidism . although we hypothesized that the level of human parathyroid hormone secretion from these implants would fall over time in response to the normal host environment , hormone levels remained as high as those in recipients of adenomatous heterografts , even after 9 to 13 months . moreover , similar biologic effect of the excess parathyroid hormone ( i.e. , relative hypercalcemia , hyperphosphatasemia , and increased 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d biosynthesis ) were detected . these animal models should prove extremely useful in supplementing our understanding of hyperparathyroid disorder in man . 
effects of tamoxifen and somatostatin analogue on growth of human medullary , follicular , and papillary thyroid carcinoma cell lines : tissue culture and nude mouse xenograft studies . the knowledge that ( 1 ) the normal thyroid contains somatostatin , ( 2 ) polypeptide growth factors influence thyroid cell function , and ( 3 ) thyroid cells contain steroid hormone receptors prompted us to add somatostatin analogue no . 201-995 ( sms ) ( 5 ng/ml ) and/or tamoxifen citrate ( tam ) ( 5 mumol/l ) to 7-day monolayer cultures ( 50,000 cells/well ) of three separate human thyroid carcinoma cell lines : dr081 ( medullary ) , wr082 ( follicular ) , and npa '87 ( papillary ) . results , tabulated as cell numbers/well ( x10 ( 5 ) on day 7 , revealed that tam inhibited growth of medullary and follicular cells and that tam plus sms inhibited growth of papillary cells . in vivo studies of subcutaneous tumor cell xenografts in nude mice have documented that tam ( 5 mg subcutaneous pellet ) significantly inhibits the growth of medullary implants . flow cytometric dna studies of medullary cell cultures demonstrated a reduced g2 + m phase with tam treatment . for papillary cell implants , tam plus sms ( 5 micrograms subcutaneously , twice daily ) did not suppress tumor growth . all three cell lines were negative for estrogen receptor ; addition of estradiol ( 5 ng/ml ) to medullary cell cultures neither stimulated replication nor reversed the inhibitory effects of tam in vitro . we conclude that ( 1 ) tam slowed the growth of a cell line of human medullary carcinoma , both in vitro and in vivo ; ( 2 ) this effect was not reversed by estradiol ; ( 3 ) tam plus sms inhibited replication of a papillary carcinoma cell line in vitro , but not in vivo ; and ( 4 ) tam alone and tam plus sms inhibited replication of cultures of a human follicular thyroid carcinoma cell line . tam and sms may be useful in treatment of some human thyroid carcinomas . 
management of cushing 's syndrome secondary to adrenal adenoma during pregnancy . this report discusses our experience with two patients who had unilateral adrenalectomy during pregnancy as treatment for cushing 's syndrome secondary to an adrenal adenoma . previously only five patients with this clinical problem who underwent unilateral adrenalectomy during pregnancy had been reported . we have reviewed the world literature on cushing 's syndrome in pregnancy secondary to an adrenal adenoma . a total of 19 patients who had unilateral adrenalectomy for this problem after the completion of pregnancy were identified . the review of world literature and the two patients who are the subject of this report were the basis of our analysis of fetal death , neonatal complications , and maternal complications in seven pregnancies during which unilateral adrenalectomy was performed ( group 1 ) compared to the 19 pregnancies that were associated with unilateral adrenalectomy at the completion of pregnancy ( group 2 ) . of the seven pregnancies in group 1 , one fetal death and no neonatal complications occurred , but fetal death and neonatal complications occurred in 12 of the 19 pregnancies in group 2 . four of the seven mothers in group 1 had complications ; 16 of the 19 mothers in group 2 had complications . this study suggests that adrenalectomy during pregnancy should be considered as a therapeutic option in the management of cushing 's syndrome secondary to an adrenal cortical adenoma . 
the role of adrenalectomy in cushing 's syndrome . forty-four patients with cushing 's syndrome were treated by adrenalectomy between 1975 and 1989 . twenty patients had adrenal adenomas : 13 with obvious cushing 's syndrome and 7 whose disease was subclinical , detected after evaluation of an incidentally discovered adrenal mass ( es ) . twelve patients underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for cushing 's disease after failed transsphenoidal explorations and pituitary irradiation . six patients had primary adrenal hyperplasia , five as manifestations of carney 's complex . two others underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone from carcinoid tumors . four patients had adrenocortical carcinoma treated with transabdominal adrenalectomy . three are alive from 8 years to 5 months . there was one postoperative death ( 2.3 % ) caused by coagulopathy and multiple organ failure and three ( 7 % ) minor postoperative complications . follow-up showed good to excellent results in 95 % of patients . it is concluded that adrenalectomy provides prompt relief from the severe morbidity of cushing 's syndrome regardless of the cause . it is the treatment of choice for adrenal adenomas , carcinomas , primary hyperplasia , and selected patients with cushing 's disease . 
time to recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis after curative resection of adrenal tumors in patients with cushing 's syndrome . the recovery time of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis after curative resection of adrenal tumors in patients with cushing 's syndrome is poorly documented . eight consecutive patients were treated with a standardized hydrocortisone replacement strategy after curative resection of a cortisol-secreting tumor and the time to recovery of the hpa axis was determined . hypercortisolism was documented by elevated 24-hour urinary free cortisol levels . cure was documented by undetectable postoperative morning serum cortisol levels . each patient received replacement hydrocortisone after surgery and was reevaluated every 3 to 6 months with an adrenocorticotrophic hormone ( acth ) stimulation test . each patient was also monitored carefully for symptoms and signs of adrenal insufficiency , which was defined as symptoms consistent with this diagnosis that responded to increases in hydrocortisone levels . after surgical resection , each patient was cured of hypercortisolism . subsequently , despite replacement hydrocortisone , each patient had symptoms of hypocortisolism , and in four of eight patients the dose of hydrocortisone was increased to relieve the symptoms . patients required a median time of 15 months ( range , 9 to 22 months ) to recover a normal acth stimulation test and 19 months ( range , 12 to 24 months ) to allow discontinuation of replacement doses of hydrocortisone . the results suggest that surgical resection of a cortisol-secreting adrenal tumor will result in rapid cure of hypercortisolism , but complete recovery of the hpa axis and discontinuation of replacement steroids will require between 1 and 2 years . normal adrenal function , as assessed by the cortisol response to acth , returns despite replacement doses of hydrocortisone , and replacement doses of hydrocortisone can be tapered rapidly or discontinued after a normal acth stimulation test . 
posttranslational gastrin processing depends on tumor morphology . extracellular matrices have recently been demonstrated to alter cell morphology in culture . altered cell morphology has been associated with changes in gene transcription and translation , but it is not known whether it also affects posttranslational processing . using tyrosine-o-sulfation as a marker of processing , we studied the effects of various substrates on biologically active gastrin ( irg ) production and sulfation in gastrin-containing tumor cells ( gt cells ) . dispersed gt cells were plated onto different substrates and then incubated . culture media from days 4 , 7 , and 28 were assayed with specific antibodies that recognize total irg and nonsulfated irg . cells cultured on plastic and dried films of laminin , collagen , and matrigel ( collaborative research inc. , lexington , mass. ) flattened and formed monolayers of gt cells . cells cultured on a porous membrane and hydrated gels of collagen and matrigel did not flatten but formed spheroids of gt cells . the monolayer cultures showed an increase in sulfation with time but a decrease in irg production . the spheroid cultures maintained a constant level of sulfation over time and , with the exception of matrigel ( gel ) , also showed a decrease in irg production . these results indicate that the level of sulfation was unchanged from that of the original tumor when cells were grown in spheroids but increased when cultured as monolayers . it appears that alteration of the cellular milieu alters colony morphology , which in turn alters gastrin processing . 
the utility of circulating levels of human pancreatic polypeptide as a marker for islet cell tumors . the measurement of plasma levels of human pancreatic polypeptide ( hpp ) has been reported to be clinically useful in predicting the existence of pancreatic islet cell neoplasms in patients with familial multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 ( fmen-i ) and the possible presence of metastatic disease in patients with islet cell tumors . however , these studies have not been prospective and involve small numbers of patients . in this study , fasting plasma samples from 36 patients with biopsy-proved islet cell tumors were analyzed for hpp by radioimmunoassay and compared with age-matched control subjects . of 13 patients with fmen-i who had islet cell tumors , 7 ( 54 % ) had elevated plasma hpp levels before surgery . after resection of all islet cell tumors , 4 of 12 patients evaluated after surgery still had elevated levels . fifteen patients had islet cell tumors that were localized ( seven insulinomas and eight gastrinomas ) , but none of these patients had elevated hpp levels , either before or after surgery . nine patients , including one with fmen-i , with metastatic islet cell tumors to the liver were studied ; three with more advanced disease had elevated hpp levels before surgery . each of the nine patients underwent resection of all gross disease and the three patients with elevated preoperative levels had normal postoperative hpp levels . our results indicate that basal plasma levels of hpp were not clinically useful . the hpp levels did not reliably predict the presence of islet cell tumors in patients with fmen-i , because 46 % of patients with tumors did not have elevated plasma levels , and in those with elevated values hpp levels did not reliably predict the resection of all tumor . plasma levels of hpp have no utility in patients with localized sporadically occurring islet cell tumors and limited utility ( 33 % ) in predicting the presence of metastatic islet cell tumors to the liver . 
extraadrenal retroperitoneal paragangliomas : natural history and response to treatment . extraadrenal retroperitoneal paragangliomas ( rp ) are uncommon tumors . because of their rarity , little is known of their natural history or response to treatment . we reviewed 22 patients with rp who were seen at our center between 1949 and 1990 . the distribution of male and female patients was nearly equal , and the mean age was 42 . most patients were admitted with pain or a mass , and eight of 22 tumors were functional . no significant difference was noted in duration of symptoms , size of the tumor , or survival between functional and nonfunctional tumors . eleven of 22 ( 50 % ) rp metastasized and were therefore classified as malignant . five-year and 10-year disease free survival rates were 19 % and 19 % for tumors not resected and 75 % and 45 % for those completely resected . once metastases occurred , the 5-year survival rate was 36 % , but no patient survived beyond 76 months . predictors of survival included complete resection of the tumor but not size or functional status . although some patients who received chemotherapy or radiotherapy had clinical responses , a survival benefit could not be shown . rp have a high rate of malignant behavior and should be treated aggressively with operation . late metastases are not uncommon , and prolonged follow-up is necessary . once metastases have occurred , some patients may have prolonged survival . 
the effect of somatostatin on 5-hydroxytryptamine release from a carcinoid tumor . one of the major manifestations of the carcinoid syndrome is secretory diarrhea thought to be due to overproduction of 5-hydroxytryptamine ( 5-ht ) . synthetic somatostatin analogues have proved to be clinically effective in controlling this diarrhea . we have established a continuous cell line from a human pancreatic carcinoid tumor that secretes 5-ht . we examined the ability of the somatostatin analogue , sms 201-995 , to inhibit 5-ht release in vitro . tumor cells were exposed to sms 201-995 ( 10 ( -6 ) mol/l ) , pentagastrin ( 10 ( -9 ) mol/l ) , acetylcholine ( 10 ( -5 ) mol/l ) , and isoproterenol ( 10 ( -5 ) mol/l ) alone and in combination ; 5-ht release was assayed with high pressure liquid chromatography . we found that pentagastrin ( 6.43 + / - 0.64 ng/ml ) , isoproterenol ( 20.24 + / - 2.17 ng/ml ) , and acetylcholine ( 12.39 + / - 1.10 ng/ml ) each stimulated release of 5-ht compared to control values ( 4.38 + / - 0.42 ng/ml ) . sms 201-995 significantly reduced release of 5-ht in response to isoproterenol and acetylcholine but did not inhibit the effect of pentagastin . these data suggest that different agents do not act through the same pathway to stimulate 5-ht release from human pancreatic carcinoid cells . 
intraatrial extension of thyroid cancer : technique and results of a radical surgical approach . an occlusion of the superior vena cava by a tumor thrombus extending into the right atrium was diagnosed in three patients with a follicular thyroid cancer . all patients showed the typical clinical picture of the superior vena cava syndrome . a right parasternal thoracotomy was performed for preparation of the major vessels . the superior vena cava was opened and the entire intravascular tumor thrombus was removed . the cavotomy was closed directly in two patients . in the third patient the left brachiocephalic trunk was resected and reconstructed with a vascular ( polytetrafluoroethylene ) graft . this patient had bone and brain metastases and an occlusion of the graft 3 months after surgery after anticoagulation was stopped . the other two patients were clinically symptom free without local recurrence 13 and 50 months after surgery . an aggressive surgical approach is justified in grossly invasive thyroid cancer to decrease local recurrence and death rates , to correct the disturbing clinical symptoms of superior vena caval occlusion , and to prevent tumor embolism and the development of distant metastases . by reducing tumor mass , an even better basis for radioiodine treatment can be prepared . 
the intraoperative incidence of detectable bilateral and multicentric disease in papillary cancer of the thyroid . this is a prospective study to determine the incidence of grossly detectable multicentric and bilateral cancer at operation in patients who , before surgery , were believed to have a unilateral lesion . the opposite lobe was inspected at the time of operation and the surgeon made a determination as to whether there was bilateral and/or multicentric disease present . a total thyroidectomy was then carried out and the accuracy of the surgeon 's judgment was established by permanent-section pathologic examination . fifteen of the 44 patients were assessed to have gross bilateral disease . thirteen of these were confirmed by pathologic examination . one case of microscopic bilateral disease was not recognized by the surgeon . seventeen patients were thought to have unilateral multicentric disease . fifteen of these cases were confirmed by microscopy and an additional seven cases were documented to have secondary foci . it is obvious from this study that most disease that is called microscopic disease is actually palpable . a review of the literature confirms this . it was very unlikely for a patient who did not have unilateral multicentric disease to have a contralateral focus of carcinoma . the incidence of bilateral disease was 32 % , and the incidence of multicentric disease was 50 % ; the surgeon was very accurate in assessing this . we believe that surgeons who advocate lobectomy as the primary treatment for thyroid cancer are recognizing grossly detectable disease in a significant number of patients and thus are doing total thyroidectomies in most patients with bilateral disease . 
intraoperative decision making during thyroid surgery based on the results of preoperative needle biopsy and frozen section . prognostic factors in well-differentiated thyroid cancer are age of the patient and grade , size , distant metastasis , and extracapsular spread of the disease . however , the surgeon is often not sure about the pathologic diagnosis of thyroid nodules . the accuracy of preoperative studies , such as ultrasonography and thyroid scanning , is limited . the most cost-effective test is fine-needle aspiration , the accuracy of which exceeds 80 % in most series . however , a large group of nodules exist for which aspiration cytologic studies are considered to be either suspicious or indeterminate . the decision about the extent of thyroidectomy may be difficult in these patients . intraoperative frozen section may help the surgeon to distinguish benign from malignant lesions , but as in fine-needle aspiration , the major problem is the distinction between follicular adenoma and follicular carcinoma . the frozen section diagnosis of follicular adenoma was changed to follicular carcinoma in one third of the cases ( 13 of 38 cases ) . the decision about the extent of thyroidectomy in patients with follicular adenomas was based on other prognostic factors , such as age and sex of the patient and the size of the nodule . the accuracy of frozen section diagnosis was 95 % . our experience suggests that decisions regarding the extent of thyroidectomy can best be made by preoperative fine-needle aspiration with confirmation by frozen section diagnosis in equivocal cases . 
prognostic significance of nondiploid dna determined by flow cytometry in sporadic and familial medullary thyroid carcinoma . to clarify the role of dna measurements in predicting outcome after surgical treatment of medullary thyroid carcinoma ( mtc ) , we performed flow cytometric analysis in nuclear suspensions of 119 mtc tumors . of the 119 patients , 63 ( 53 % ) patients had sporadic tumors and 56 ( 47 % ) patients had familial tumors ; survivors were followed for a mean of 13 years . dna content was normal in 92 ( 77 % ) patients and abnormal ( nondiploid ) in 27 ( 23 % ) patients . ten-year cause-specific mortality rates were 12 % , 42 % , and 49 % with diploid , tetraploid/polyploid , or aneuploid tumors ( p = 0.0009 ) and were greater with nondiploid tumors both in the sporadic ( p = 0.012 ) and multiple endocrine neoplasia ( familial ) cases ( p = 0.114 ) . none of 27 patients with tnm stage i disease died of mtc . in patients with tnm stages ii , iii , and iv disease , dna nondiploid tumors were associated with increased deaths from mtc . in a cox proportional hazards model involving all 119 patients and adjusted for disease stage and inheritance pattern , nondiploid dna was independently associated with increased deaths from mtc ( p = 0.008 ) . in an identical cox model restricted to the 92 dna diploid tumors , an s-phase fraction of 15.0 % or more remained a significant variable ( p = 0.034 ) after adjustment for stage and inheritance pattern . we therefore conclude that dna measurements do have a role to play in predicting outcome after surgical treatment of mtc . 
clinicopathologic and flow cytometric dna study of medullary thyroid carcinoma . sixty-one patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma were investigated to establish relationships between the neoplasm 's dna content , other clinicopathologic factors , and patient survival ( at least 5 years ' follow-up ) . there were 26 ( 42.6 % ) familial and 35 ( 57.4 % ) sporadic carcinomas . forty-two neoplasms ( 68.8 % ) were diploid and 19 ( 31.2 % ) were aneuploid by flow cytometric assessment . in univariate analysis , age , hereditary background , dna content , calcitonin immunoreactivity , and type of surgery were strong predictors of clinical outcomes . in multivariate regression analysis , none of these factors was an independent prognosticator . patients ' gender , clinical stage , histologic subtype , and amyloid content of the tumor did not influence survival . 
actin architecture of cultured human thyroid cancer cells : predictor of differentiation ? the actin cytoskeleton is important for cell structure and motility . a disordered actin architecture has been correlated with a high metastatic potential in melanoma , fibrosarcoma , and colon cancer models . thyrotropin is known to induce growth and differentiation in cultured thyroid cells , whereas the carcinogenic phorbol ester 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ( tpa ) causes dedifferentiation and malignant transformation in many cell lines . we therefore assessed the effect of thyrotropin and tpa on the actin architecture of ftc-133 human follicular thyroid cancer cells in continuous culture . staining of filamentous actin with rhodamine phalloidin showed that 1 mu/ml or 30 mu/ml thyrotropin-induced actin polymerization was detectable at 1 hour but more notable at 24 hours . similarly tpa ( 0.008 to 10 mumol/l ) caused rapid actin fiber disruption and redistribution to the cell periphery . secondary antibody staining for alpha-actinin , a protein that binds and crosslinks actin , was more prominent after treatment with thyrotropin but decreased after tpa . these findings indicate that the actin cytoskeleton has a dynamic response to trophic factors . thyrotropin promoted actin polymerization , but tpa caused depolymerization . these effects may correlate with cellular alpha-actinin levels . actin architecture may therefore reflect the state of differentiation of thyroid tumor cells . 
n-ras 61 oncogene mutations in hurthle cell tumors . mutations of ras oncogenes are believed to play an important role in the initiation or progression of human tumors . in thyroid tumors the incidence of ras activation by specific point mutations has been reported to range from 33 % in follicular adenomas up to 60 % in anaplastic carcinomas . because of our long-standing interest in hurthle cell tumors , we began a study of 70 such cases to determine the incidence of ras mutations and their clinical correlates . analysis of n-ras sequences at condon position 61 , with the polymerase chain reaction method and oligonucleotide probe hybridization , showed point mutations of the normal codon caa * in eight tumor samples . one was a mutation from caa to aaa , one from caa to cta , * and six from caa to cga . these mutations would result in amino acid substitutions of lysine , leucine , or arginine for the normal glutamine at position 61 in the n-ras protein . identical ras mutations in two tumors and some of their surrounding thyroid tissue may indicate that activating ras point mutations are an early event in carcinogenesis . the incidence of mutations was 1 of 24 ( 4 % ) of the histologically benign tumors , 5 of 34 ( 15 % ) of the intermediate tumors ( with vascular or capsular permeation ) , and 2 of 12 ( 17 % ) in the malignant group . four of these eight patients died of metastatic thyroid disease and four are alive without evidence of recurrence . 
posterior mediastinal teratoma with abdominal extension . posterior mediastinal benign teratomas are uncommon neoplasms in infancy ; nine cases have been reported so far . a one month old baby was found to have a benign posterior mediastinal teratoma infiltrating the lower oesophagus from the level of the carina through the oesophageal hiatus into the upper abdomen . partial oesophagectomy provided a successful outcome . 
are three substages of clinical b prostate carcinoma useful in predicting disease-free survival ? the b1 nodule , a 1.5 cm area of induration surrounded on at least two sides by prostatic tissue of normal consistency , was defined by jewett in 1968 as the stage of prostatic cancer best suited for treatment and cure by radical prostatectomy ( rp ) . the area of prostatic induration suitable for rp was subsequently extended to less than one lobe ( stage b1 ) ; this extension of induration was supported by the study of walsh and jewett in 1980 showing a 51 percent survival free-of-disease at fifteen-year follow-up . subsequently , clinical staging systems evolved which substaged clinical b into three categories of induration : b1n = less than 1.5 cm nodule , b1 = greater than 1.5 cm but less than one lobe , and b2 = one lobe or both lobes . to determine if digital assessment of these progressively greater degrees of induration would translate into different intervals to first progression , whether local or distant , we reviewed prostate diagrams and descriptions of all stage b patients treated by iodine-125 interstitial implant and external beam radiation therapy between 1974 and 1985 at our institution . forty-six patients had b1 nodules , 78 patients b1 ( less than one lobe ) , and 52 patients b2 ( one lobe or greater ) . mean follow-up was fifty-five months . we found b1n , which was also associated with well-differentiated grade and a normal acid phosphatase , to have the longest interval to progression . 
radical prostatectomy versus expectant primary treatment in stages i and ii prostatic cancer . a fifteen-year follow-up . a fifteen-year follow-up of a prospective , randomized study comparing placebo with radical prostatectomy as the primary treatment of early prostatic cancer is presented . a total of 111 patients with clinical stage i or ii prostatic cancer , normal acid phosphatase levels , and negative findings on skeletal x-ray film were evaluable . thirty stage i patients and 20 stage ii patients received placebo only ; 31 stage i and 30 stage ii patients underwent radical prostatectomy . the survival status for 95 patients ( 86 % ) was established at the fifteen-year follow-up . no significant differences in crude survival occurred in either stage or in both stages combined . moreover , the survival curves closely followed reference curves based on expected u.s. mortality for men of comparable ages and races . a statistically significant association between a high gleason histologic score and poor survival was established . in this study , initial treatment with radical prostatectomy did not yield longer survival than initial placebo treatment alone . however , the findings should be interpreted with caution , since sample size was small and staging procedure was simplified . 
epididymal metastasis from prostatic adenocarcinoma mimicking adenomatoid tumor . a case of epididymal metastasis from prostatic carcinoma is presented . the initial histologic findings were suggestive of adenomatoid tumor , but a diagnosis of metastatic adenocarcinoma of prostatic origin has been established by prostatic acid phosphatase and prostate-specific antigen immunoperoxidase staining . 
femoral mononeuropathy after radical prostatectomy . femoral mononeuropathy is a recognized complication following abdominal and vaginal hysterectomy . retractor injury and lithotomy position were postulated mechanisms . we report a femoral nerve lesion following a radical perineal prostatectomy . 
testicular calcifications and neoplasia in patient treated for subfertility . a subfertile male with a history of left cryptorchism underwent scrotal ultrasound that revealed stippled calcifications , without associated mass , in the right testicle . six months later , while on a regimen of clomiphene citrate , a testicular tumor became palpable . this was sonographically confirmed to be surrounding the calcifications . testicular calcifications are most commonly associated with benign conditions . we review the literature regarding their relationship to neoplasms and the significance of the ultrasonic findings . furthermore , this is the sixth reported case of testicular tumor developing during hormonal treatment for oligospermia . although these cases may be circumstantial , closer surveillance and screening ultrasound may be indicated for subfertile males taking clomiphene citrate . 
papanicolaou smear cell recovery techniques used by primary care physicians . nine hundred tennessee-based internists , family physicians , and obstetrician-gynecologists were randomly selected and surveyed to identify papanicolaou smear cell recovery methods used in their practices . this 16-item survey also requested typical laboratory reporting procedures on papanicolaous smears . the most frequently reported cell sampling technique was the combination cotton-tipped applicator and spatula , which was used by 47 percent of all physicians . use of the cervical cytobrush for papanicolaou smears , which has been shown to improve the detection of cervical dysplasia , was used alone or in combination by 19 percent of those surveyed , of whom 72 percent were gynecologists . cervical sampling should contain cells from the transformation zone as evidenced by an adequate number of endocervical cells on the smear . laboratories reporting the presence of endocervical cells were significantly different ( p less than 0.05 ) among the specialties , with 26 percent of the internists ' , 18 percent of the family physicians ' , and 15 percent of the obstetricians ' laboratories not providing this information in their reports . reporting inadequate smears is a necessary first step toward improved sampling technique . without this information , physicians risk missing pathology through reports of false-negative papanicolaou smears . 
malignant melanoma presenting as nasal obstruction . mucosal melanomas arising in the nasal cavity are rare tumors comprising less than 1 percent of all melanomas . often , the common clinical symptom is nasal obstruction . grossly , they may or may not be pigmented and frequently attain large sizes . histologic diagnosis of these tumors may be difficult , requiring immunohistochemical or electron microscopic confirmation . aggressive surgical management is the treatment of choice in clinical stage i disease . subsequent surveillance for recurrence is mandatory . markers such as 5-s-cysteinyldopa may prove useful in staging , prognosticating , and postoperative surveillance for early recurrence , but their exact role has yet to be delineated . ultimate prognosis is poor . 
parental age in sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma . of 104 children with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma born between 1945 and 1970 , we studied the age of their parents at the birth and compared this age with the mean age of parents at the birth of their children during the same period in the netherlands . the mean age of fathers at the birth of their children with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma ( 33.7 years ) was significantly higher than the mean age of fathers at the birth of their children in the general population ( 32.5 years ) ( p less than .05 , one sided ) . similarly , the mean age of mothers at the birth of their children with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma ( 31.2 years ) was significantly higher than the mean age of mothers at the birth of their children in the general population ( 29.5 years ) ( p less than .05 , one sided ) . we further analyzed this parental age factor by measuring the relative risk of age groups and comparing the incidence of sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma in the various parental age groups with the incidence of sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma in the total population . mothers 35 years of age or older had a relative risk of 1.7 to have a child with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma compared with mothers in the population in general ( p = .006 , one sided ) . similarly , fathers 50 years of age or older had a relative risk of 5.0 to have a child with sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma compared with fathers in the population in general ( p = .04 , one sided ) . no parental age effect was found in children with nonhereditary retinoblastoma . we conclude that a high paternal and a high maternal age are significant risk factors for sporadic hereditary retinoblastoma . 
capillary haemangioma presenting as a lung pseudocyst . a girl who developed a lung cyst at 24 hours of age during gentle ventilation for respiratory distress syndrome is reported . instead of resolving as expected of a pseudocyst it continued to expand . resection at 1 year of age showed a cyst entirely surrounded by capillary haemangioma . aspiration of this cyst would have been dangerous . 
indomethacin responsive hypercalcaemia associated with a renal sarcoma . an infant presented with a non-metastatic renal spindle cell sarcoma and hypercalcaemia , which resolved after treatment with indomethacin . there was in vivo and in vitro evidence that hypercalcaemia was mediated by circulatory prostaglandins . 
surgical strategy in thyroid disease . over the past 8 years , 311 patients have undergone surgical treatment by the senior authors for thyroid disease . over 80 % of the cases were performed by the head and neck surgical service at olive view county hospital , sylmar , calif , with the remainder performed at ucla-affiliated institutions . this service is an important source of thyroid surgical training for ucla head and neck residents who rotate through this major affiliate . the purpose of this communication is to review our experience with these cases ; to describe our overall surgical strategy ; and to detail the specifics of our surgical procedure , which we have developed to safely train residents in the treatment of these challenging cases . this article deals with the specific problems of preservation of the recurrent nerve , the parathyroid glands , and the techniques for reimplantation of injured parathyroid glands ; the management of larger , substernal thyroid glands ; and our techniques for partial thyroid surgery . in addition , the difficult decisions in the management of thyroid cancer , such as completion thyroidectomy ; the management of lymph node mestastases ; and how tracheal , esophageal , or laryngeal invasion should be managed are discussed . an initial section describing the general preoperative examination of these patients is also included , so that the proper surgical strategy can be developed prior to entering the operating room . 
carotid body tumors . the surgical management of carotid body tumors requires identification and preservation of neural and vascular structures without compromising resection of the neoplasm . fifteen patients were examined and treated for carotid body tumors at the cleveland ( ohio ) clinic foundation from 1979 through 1987 . the benchmark of diagnosis is bilateral carotid angiography . when neural structures are free of tumor , meticulous dissection facilitates their preservation . large tumor size increases risk for arterial resection necessitating reconstruction . the use of a vascular shunt minimizes the risk of cerebral ischemia . postoperative intravenous digital subtraction angiography allows for evaluation of arterial repair . a retrospective review of 15 carotid body tumor resections performed in 14 patients revealed no evidence of tumor recurrence , no mortality associated with surgical intervention , no postoperative cerebrovascular accident , and limited morbidity associated with unavoidable sacrifice of neural elements . 
unknown primary squamous cell carcinoma metastatic to the neck . we analyzed retrospectively 157 cases of metastatic neck squamous cell carcinoma from unknown primary sites , treated with surgery , radiotherapy , excisional biopsy , and combined modalities . median follow-up was 74 months , and overall actuarial survival was 55 % at 5 years . the surgery-treated group , despite a higher rate of manifesting primary tumors , had significantly better survival at 5 years compared with those receiving radiation therapy , of whom 23 % had residual disease after treatment . primary tumors were discovered during follow-up in 16 % overall . different treatments yielded comparable results in lower-staged neck disease ( nx , n1 , n2a ) , while surgery appeared more effective in controlling advanced disease ( n2b , n3a ) . factors that affected survival include neck stage , connective tissue invasion , and presence of recurrent or residual disease after treatment . 
oncogene amplification in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . cellular oncogenes appear to be involved in the control of normal cell growth and differentiation . the abnormal activation of these genes in naturally occurring and experimentally induced cancers may have an important role in the expression of the malignant phenotype in cancer cells . mechanisms for the activation of these genes include chromosomal translocation , point mutation , and dna amplification . the amplification of specific oncogenes correlates with clinical prognosis in several human malignancies , including breast cancer and neuroblastoma . we examined 21 fresh-frozen human squamous cell carcinomas of the aerodigestive tract for amplification of 10 known cellular oncogenes ( c-myc , n-myc , l-myc , n-ras , h-ras , k-ras , erb-b , erb-b2 , raf , and int-2 ) , using southern blotting techniques . eleven of 21 tumors demonstrated a two-fold to 11-fold amplification of the int-2 oncogene , one member of a family of genes related to basic fibroblast growth factor . amplification of c-myc , a gene that codes for a dna-binding protein involved in the regulation of cell growth , was seen in two tumors . none of the other eight genes studied were amplified in any of the tumor specimens . 
intraoperative radiation of canine carotid artery , internal jugular vein , and vagus nerve . therapeutic applications in the management of advanced head and neck cancers . as a step in the application of intraoperative radiotherapy ( iort ) for treating advanced head and neck cancers , preliminary information was obtained on the radiation tolerance of the canine common carotid artery , internal jugular vein , and vagus nerve to a single , high-dose electron beam . both sides of the neck of eight mongrel dogs were operated on to expose an 8-cm segment of common carotid artery , internal jugular vein , and vagus nerve . one side of the neck was irradiated , using escalating doses of 2500 , 3500 , 4500 , and 5500 cgy . the contralateral side of the neck served as the unirradiated control . at 3 and 6 months after iort , one dog at each dose level was killed . none of the dogs developed carotid bleeding at any time after iort . light microscopic investigations using hematoxylin-eosin staining on the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein showed no consistent changes that suggested radiation damage ; however , the masson trichrome stain and hydroxyproline concentration of irradiated common carotid artery indicated an increase in the collagen content of the tunica media . marked changes in the irradiated vagus nerve were seen , indicating severe demyelination and loss of nerve fibers , which appeared to be radiation-dose dependent . four patients with advanced recurrent head and neck cancer were treated with surgical resection and iort without any acute or subacute complications . the role of iort as a supplement to surgery , external beam irradiation , and chemotherapy in selected patients with advanced head and neck cancer needs further exploration . 
use of the levator scapulae muscle flap in head and neck reconstruction . there are numerous techniques available for reconstruction of defects following composite resection of oral cavity and oropharyngeal tumors . no single technique is applicable in all situations . the levator scapulae muscle flap is well known for its application in carotid protection . little attention is paid to its usefulness in other aspects of head and neck reconstruction . we have been using the levator scapulae muscle flap for a variety of reconstructive problems . the flap is useful for buttressing intraoral suture lines , closing intraoral defects , and providing soft tissue to fill in dead spaces and bulk out lateral and anterior oral defects . the levator flap was found to be easy to elevate , safe , and reliable with a minimum of wound complications . a review of 18 patients , representative case studies , and a discussion of surgical technique and relevant anatomy and blood supply is presented . 
parotid duct communicating with a labial pit and ectopic salivary cyst . labial pits are usually described as blind epidermal invaginations of lip mucosa with occasional drainage of minor salivary gland secretions . a case of an aberrant parotid duct in communication with both a unilateral , commissural labial pit and an interposed salivary cyst is presented . a 7-year-old boy who had experienced lifelong clear drainage from a congenital pit at his right oral commissure developed fever , pain , and a submucosal mass of the right cheek over a 6-week period . a preoperative sialogram through the pit demonstrated a communication between the oral commissure fistula , an intervening salivary cyst , and a proximal tract from the cyst to the parotid gland . an en bloc resection of the pit , fistula tract , and cyst was performed through a transoral approach . the dissection was medial to the buccinator muscle . there has been no recurrence of the cyst after 1 year follow-up . a description of labial pits and parotid duct anomalies is presented ; however , to our knowledge , this combination of anomalies has not been previously described . 
intraventricular diamorphine via an ommaya shunt for intractable cancer pain . we describe two patients in whom diamorphine was administered into the intraventricular space via an ommaya reservoir , producing excellent pain relief . the use of this technique for long term administration of analgesia is reviewed . 
radiobiological studies in the naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome . the naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is described in a 43-year-old male . the response of dividing fibroblasts from this patient to the lethal effects of ionizing radiation was indistinguishable from that of a normal control : mean inactivation dose ( d ) = 1.74 gy and 1.68 gy , respectively . however , these cells were defective in the repair of potentially lethal damage ( d = 2.36 gy and 3.26 gy , respectively ) . the response to radiation of go t lymphocytes derived from the patient was similar to that of the control . the frequency of mutant circulating t lymphocytes resistant to 6-thioguanine was 17 x 10 ( -6 ) which was elevated when compared with age-matched controls . these results suggest an abnormality in the response of the fibroblasts to ionizing radiation damage . 
the significance of leu 8 negative t cells in lymphoid skin infiltrates : malignant transformation , selective homing or t-cell activation ? the expression of leu 8 was studied on skin biopsies from a large group of patients with benign and malignant skin disorders and correlated with the expression of t-cell differentiation antigens and activation markers . the effect of in vitro stimulation of peripheral blood t cells and t-cell subsets on the expression of leu 8 antigen was also determined . in all the skin diseases studied an inverse relationship was found between the proportions of cells expressing leu 8 and hla-dr . a deficiency of leu 8 positive cells was not specific for mycosis fungoides , but was also found in several reactive dermatoses . stimulation of peripheral blood cells with phytohaemagglutinin ( pha ) , concanavalin a ( con a ) , and anti-cd3-pma resulted in a considerable decrease of leu 8 antigen expression on day 3 in both cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . these data suggest that the low proportion of leu 8 + t cells in mycosis fungoides and several reactive skin disorders is not related to malignant transformation or selective homing of leu 8 - t cells , but probably results from local t-cell activation . 
pachyonychia congenita complicated by hidradenitis suppurativa : a family study . a family is described in which five of the six members with the jackson-lawler type of pachyonychia congenita also had varying degrees of hidradenitis suppurativa . we suggest an association between this type of pachyonychia congenita and hidradenitis suppurativa . 
leukaemia complicating treatment for hodgkin 's disease : the experience of the british national lymphoma investigation . objective -- to determine the incidence of and risk factors for the development of secondary acute leukaemia and myelodysplasia in patients treated in british national lymphoma investigation 's studies of hodgkin 's disease since 1970 . patients -- 2676 patients entered into hodgkin 's disease studies between february 1970 and november 1986 . data accrued up to november 1988 were analysed , ensuring a minimum follow up period of two years . design -- retrospective analysis of multicentre trial data by case-control and life table methods . results -- 17 cases of secondary leukaemia were recorded in this group of 2676 patients , giving an overall risk at 15 years of 1.7 % . the risks of leukaemia after chemotherapy alone and chemotherapy with radiotherapy were not significantly different . the risk of leukaemia increased sharply with the amount of treatment given as measured by the number of attempts at treatment . the 15 year risks of leukaemia were 0.2 % , 2.3 % , and 8.1 % for patients receiving one , two , or three or more attempts at treatment . the highest risk , 22.8 % at 15 years , was observed in patients treated with lomustine ( ccnu ) , and a case-control study suggested that this was an independent risk factor . the risk of secondary leukaemia was largely related to the overall quantity of treatment , although exposure to lomustine seemed to be an important risk factor . treatment with both drugs and radiation was not more leukaemogenic than treatment with drugs alone . the greatest risk of secondary leukaemia was seen in multiply treated patients who were unlikely to be cured of hodgkin 's disease . conclusions -- avoidance of secondary leukaemia should be a minor factor in the choice of treatment for hodgkin 's disease . 
dilatation in the duplex kidney : 3 unusual cases . dilatation in the upper limb of a duplex ureter is usually secondary to obstruction and may be associated with a ureterocele . by contrast , vesicoureteric reflux is the usual cause of a dilated lower moiety ureter . we report 3 cases in which unusual or complex causes of dilatation of 1 limb of a duplex ureter were demonstrated . 
surgical approach to the retrocrural lymph nodes . removal of retrocrural lymph nodes requires an approach other than the infradiaphragmatic retroperitoneal access generally used in the surgical management of testicular tumours . the transperitoneal route given access , at best , to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery , but advanced testicular tumours occasionally require retrocrural node dissection . we describe a useful surgical approach to these nodes and the underlying anatomy . 
nonpigmented congenital iris stromal cyst . a nonpigmented iris stromal cyst was observed in the right eye of a 6-week-old girl . there was no past history of trauma or use of topical miotics , and the remainder of the ocular examination was normal . the pathophysiology and management of this rare developmental anomaly are controversial . 
the patterns of care outcome study for cancer of the uterine cervix . results of the second national practice survey . this report summarizes the outcome results of the patterns of care study ( pcs ) of cancer of the uterine cervix from 565 patients treated in 1978 . the 5-year survival with no evidence of disease was : stage i , 74 % ; stage ii , 56 % ; and stage iii , 33 % . the 5-year local in-field failure rate was : stage i , 12 % , stage ii , 27 % ; and stage iii , 51 % . extent of parametrial involvement , unilateral versus bilateral , may be important in determining survival and local failure . the four-year actuarial survival was 58 % for unilateral involvement versus 47 % for bilateral ( p = 0.06 ) , and the local failure rate was 32 % for unilateral versus 45 % for bilateral ( p less than 0.05 ) . when analyzed by stage , patients with stage iib disease with unilateral parametrial involvement showed a trend toward improved survival and decreased local failure compared with those with bilateral stage iib cancers ( p = 0.1 ) . the use of intracavitary irradiation significantly improved survival and reduced local failures . furthermore , the number of intracavitary applications was important . when two or more intracavitary applications were used compared with one application , local in-field failure was significantly reduced , 29 % versus 17 % at 4 years ( p less than 0.001 ) , and four-year survival was improved , 60 % versus 73 % ( p = 0.01 ) . the four-year actuarial rate of major complications depended on the stage : stage i , 8 % ; stage ii , 15 % ; and stage iii , 13 % . there was a statistically significant increase in major complications in patients undergoing laparotomy for staging versus no laparotomy 23 % versus 11 % at 4 years ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) and a trend toward increased major complications in patients who were thin or had prior abdominal surgery . this study confirmed the stage-dependent outcome of treatment of cancer of the uterine cervix with radiation and indicated that further division of stage iib to indicate prognostic significance of unilateral or bilateral parametrial involvement may be warranted . this study also confirmed the importance of intracavitary radiation in optimizing control established by the 1973 pcs . it further suggests that where possible , two intracavitary insertions may yield better results than one insertion . 
the influence of autologous lymphokine-activated killer cell infusions on the toxicity and antitumor effect of repetitive cycles of interleukin-2 . twenty patients with refractory malignancies were treated with a protocol evaluating the addition of ex vivo-activated autologous lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells to a clinically tolerable interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) regimen ( four weekly cycles of human recombinant il-2 at 3 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2/day by continuous infusion for 4 days/week ) . sixteen patients completed their induction month of therapy , two had a partial response , six had stable disease , and eight had progressive disease . four patients had clinical toxicity preventing completion of the induction month of therapy , and one of these patients died during therapy . significant clinical toxicities included decreased performance status , weight gain , catheter-related thromboses , infectious complications , fever , hypotension , and dyspnea or hypoxemia requiring oxygen . thus , the addition of lak cell infusions to this il-2 regimen did not cause a noticeable change in antitumor response rate but did not cause more severe toxicity . 
carboplatin in childhood brain tumors . a children 's cancer study group phase ii trial . between october 1985 and march 1988 , children 's cancer study group institutions entered 95 patients with recurrent brain tumors into a phase ii trial of carboplatin 560 mg/m2 every 4 weeks . complete or partial responses were observed for one of 19 evaluable children with brainstem glioma , two of 14 with ependymoma , six of 19 with medulloblastoma or central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumor ( pnet ) , and none of 15 with high-grade astrocytoma . of 33 children with medulloblastoma , ependymoma , or central nervous system pnet , five of 12 with no prior cisplatin exposure had responses , and two of 21 with prior cisplatin exposure had responses ( p = 0.03 ) . thirty-four percent of patients had absolute neutrophil count nadirs less than 500/microliters , and 37 % had platelet count nadirs less than 25,000 / microliters . sixteen percent had moderate to severe otoxicity , 10 % had nausea and vomiting , and none had nephrotoxicity . 
interferon alpha-2a and 5-fluorouracil for advanced colorectal carcinoma . assessment of activity and toxicity . preclinical data showed that the cytotoxic effects of 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) are augmented by interferon ( ifn ) . in a small study , 13 of 17 patients with advanced colorectal cancer responded to a regimen of 5-fu with ifn . using the same dose and schedule as in this pilot study , 38 previously untreated patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma were treated with continuous intravenous ( iv ) infusion of 5-fu 750 mg/m2 daily for 5 days , followed by weekly bolus 5-fu at 750 mg/m2 and subcutaneous ifn at 9 million units three times per week . of 35 evaluable patients , nine ( 26 % ) had a partial response ( 95 % confidence limit , 11 % to 41 % ) , with a median response duration of 7.5 months ( range , 4.4 to greater than 11.7 months ) . seven patients ( 20 % ) had a minor response , and ten ( 28 % ) had stable disease . the most common toxicities observed were stomatitis ( 52 % ) and diarrhea ( 43 % ) . neurotoxicity was seen in 34 % of patients and consisted of gait disturbance , dizziness , confusion , memory loss , and dementia . because of toxicity , 84 % of patients required a reduction of the ifn dose by at least 50 % , and 63 % required reduction of the 5-fu dose by at least 25 % . although the combination of 5-fu and ifn in patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma has some activity , the regimen was toxic , and the observed response rate ( 26 % ) was not substantially superior to alternative 5-fu programs . 
conservative surgery and radiation therapy for soft tissue sarcoma of the wrist , hand , ankle , and foot . seventy-eight patients with soft tissue sarcoma ( sts ) arising in the distal extremities -- wrist , hand , finger , ankle , foot , and toe -- who were treated with conservation surgery and radiation therapy were studied retrospectively with respect to survival , local recurrence , functional limb preservation , complications , and distant metastasis . after a median follow-up of 7.9 years , actuarial 5-year and 10-year survival rates were 80 % and 69 % , respectively , and disease-free rates were 61 % and 51 % at the same times . actuarial local control rates were 80 % and 74 % at 5 and 10 years , respectively . fifteen patients ( 19 % ) had local recurrence , but 12 of these were salvaged . ultimately , 53 patients ( 68 % ) retained a normal or fairly normal extremity , six ( 8 % ) needed amputation for complications , and 13 ( 17 % ) needed amputation to control recurrent disease . the functional outcome was significantly better for patients with upper extremity lesions than for those with lower extremity tumors ; even for the latter , this treatment strategy was preferable to amputation . the incidence of hematogenous metastases from distal extremity sarcomas depends on the size of the primary tumor . it was concluded that conservation surgery and radiation therapy ( xrt ) is an acceptable treatment strategy for sts arising in distal extremities ; it yielded a high rate of disease control and functional limb preservation . 
multiagent chemotherapy in relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children . twenty-seven evaluable children with early first bone marrow relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia were treated with an intensive induction/consolidation and ongoing maintenance therapy . induction therapy consisted of a 35-day course of daunomycin , vincristine , and prednisone , immediately followed by teniposide , cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) , and l-asparaginase . intrathecal methotrexate , hydrocortisone , and ara-c were given through the induction/consolidation phase . twenty-three of 27 patients achieved remission by the end of induction/consolidation . maintenance with the same drugs in a modified dosage schedule continued for approximately 2 years . a small subgroup of patients who were m3 at day 35 but m1 at day 56 ( end of induction/consolidation ) and had a cumulative event-free survival ( efs ) of only 0.40 at 6 months , all had relapsed by 15 months . however , the efs for m1 patients by day 35 and maintained on chemotherapy was 0.64 at 12 months and 0.32 at 30 , 36 , and 48 months , respectively . although good reinduction and remission duration rates at 12 to 24 months were achieved and an apparent plateau in survival occurs at 30 months , fall-off in survival would not be unexpected with probably less than 20 % alive after 5 years . 
a standard dose of radiation for " microscopic disease " is not appropriate . elective irradiation of sites of potential occult tumor spread is often part of a patient 's radiation therapy program . the required radiation dose ( d ) depends on the probability that occult disease exists ( p ( occ ) ) , the number of sites at risk ( a ) , the number of tumor clonogens present ( ni ) , their radiation sensitivity , and the desired control rate . an exponential model of cell survival is used to quantify the importance of these factors . control probability = [ 1 - pocc x ( 1 - e-ni x ( sf2 ) d/2 ) ] a ; sf2 = surviving fraction after 2 gy . implications for clinical radiation therapy include : 1 . since the number of clonogens in an occult site may vary from 10 degrees to 10 ( 8 ) , ni is the major determinant of the required dose . the intrinsic radiation sensitivity of the clonogens ( sf2 ) is also extremely important in determining the dose . other factors are less influential since they vary less . 2 . the variability of ni ( 8 logs ) is larger than the variation in cell number seen with gross disease ( 1 cm3 versus 1000 cm3 , 3 logs ) . when ni approximately 10 ( 8 ) , the required dose approaches that needed for small volume gross disease ( 10 ( 9 ) cells , 1 cm3 ) . 3 . the dose prescribed to elective sites should reflect the risk of occult disease based on the primary tumor site , stage , and grade . 4 . regions where clinicoradiologic evaluation is difficult ( e.g. , pelvis and obese neck ) require higher doses because macroscopic tumor deposits may exist . 5 . relatively low doses ( 10 to 30 gy ) are often thought to be inadequate for microscopic tumor . however , similar doses have been reported to sterilize microscopic tumor in ovarian , rectal , bladder , breast , and head and neck carcinomas . relatively low doses should not be discounted since they may be useful in select cases when normal tissue tolerances and/or previous irradiation treatment limit the radiation dose . 
primary central nervous system lymphoma in a pediatric patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . treatment with radiation therapy . primary central nervous system ( cns ) lymphoma , an otherwise rare pediatric tumor , has been reported with increasing frequency in children with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) . with current therapy , the outcome of this disease is invariably fatal . the authors present a case of primary cns lymphoma in a 3.5-year-old girl with aids who received treatment with total brain irradiation . after treatment , the patient 's mental status improved , the seizures resolved , and she had no further progression of her neurologic symptoms until she died of pneumonia 6 months later . the autopsy revealed a necrotic mass at the site of the original tumor . the brain stem and spinal cord , unirradiated , contained lymphomatous lesions . the patient had extensive fibrinoid necrosis and leukoencephalopathy that were consistent with radiation-induced cns damage . coexisting aids encephalopathy also contributed to the patient 's cns injury . effective palliation of cns lymphoma in children with aids may be obtained with cranial irradiation . pediatric aids patients may show more severe tissue effects from irradiation than unaffected children . 
131i treatment of thyroid papillary carcinoma in a patient with renal failure . procedures for 131i ablation in renal failure are not known . in one patient receiving dialysis , detailed dosimetry and health safety aspects were obtained . the results showed insignificant contamination of equipment , but a surprisingly significant reduction in biologic half-life of 131i due to efficient dialysis extraction . the data indicate that 131i ablation can be done safely and easily during dialysis but that much higher 131i doses must be used to achieve equivalent results to those obtained in patients with normal renal function . 
the interplay of local and distant control in the cure of cervical cancer . from 1978 to 1986 , 183 women with cervical cancer received definitive radiation therapy after extraperitoneal surgical staging . relapse-free rates were strong functions of pelvic lymph node metastases and cervical size . the recurrence distribution consisted of 4 % isolated local , 13 % isolated distant , and 17 % combined local and distant failures . with the assumption of independent local and distant failure probabilities , suit et al. 's method was extended to assess potential improvement in cure attainable with perfect local and distant control , yielding local ( lsa ) and distant ( dsa ) survival advantages of 17 % and 28 % . various subsets of clinical stage , cervical size , pelvic node metastases , periaortic metastases , and peritoneal metastases had lsa from 12 % to 27 % and dsa from 12 % to 71 % . for any prognostic group , lsa never exceeded dsa , showing that effective systemic therapy would have a greater impact on improving survival than would advances in local and regional tumor control . therapeutic implications and limitations of the extended lsa-dsa model are discussed . this form of analysis can be used to guide the intensity of local and distant treatment to maximize the cure of the patient with cancer . 
the role of elective lymph node dissection in the management of patients with thick cutaneous melanoma . a retrospective search of patients seen at the duke melanoma clinic from 1970 to 1986 identified 308 clinically stage i patients , with 4.0 to 10.0 mm cutaneous melanomas . five-year and ten-year survival was 56 % and 43 % , respectively . elective lymph node dissection ( elnd ) was done in 116 patients ( 37.7 % ) ; there was no difference in disease-free interval ( dfi ) or survival between these patients versus patients treated with wide excision only ( p = 0.9 ) . thirty-two patients ( 27.6 % ) had pathologically positive nodes on elnd . these patients had a shorter dfi ( p = 0.05 ) and survival ( p = 0.03 ) compared with patients with negative node dissections . when further divided by breslow 's thickness , this difference persisted in patients with 4.0 to 6.0 mm lesions ( p = 0.01 ) . however , for thicker lesions ( greater than 6.0 mm ) , there was no difference in survival between the node-negative and node-positive groups ( p = 0.9 ) . the mean follow-up was 7.1 years . elective lymph node dissection was not done in 192 patients ; 78 of these recurred first in the regional nodes . these 78 patients were compared with the 32 patients who had pathologically positive nodes by elnd to see if patient survival was improved by early removal of nodal disease . there was no difference in dfi ( p = 0.5 ) or survival ( p = 0.3 ) between these two groups . it is concluded that elnd may provide prognostic information for patients with thick cutaneous melanomas . however , there was no change in dfi or ultimate survival when patients were followed , and nodes removed when clinically positive . the authors do not recommend elnd for patients with thick melanomas because the risk of distant metastases outweighs any benefit of regional node dissection . 
endoscopic and radiographic evaluation of the murine colon . endoscopic and radiographic techniques have not been widely applicable in the evaluation of chemically induced murine colon cancer . the authors investigated methods of cleansing the rat colon and refined endoscopic and radiographic techniques . they compared total colonoscopy ( tc ) and air-contrast ( acbe ) and single-contrast barium enema ( scbe ) findings with those obtained at necropsy in rats with 1,2-dimethylhydrazine ( dmh ) - induced colon cancer . gastrograffin enemas with bisacodyl suppositiories showed complete evacuation of solid feces . sprague-dawley rats treated with dmh had their colons cleansed and then underwent tc ( 5.0-mm olympus bronchoscope ) and either scbe or acbe . colonoscopy and acbe were equally sensitive ( 81.5 % and 76.3 % , respectively ) , although scbe was significantly insensitive in identifying lesions ( p less than 0.001 ) . this study demonstrates that : ( 1 ) mechanical cleansing of the rat colon is feasible , ( 2 ) tc and barium radiology can be done routinely after mechanical cleansing , and ( 3 ) tc and double-contrast be are sensitive in identifying colon lesions . these techniques will provide a means for manipulation of murine tumors and in vivo surveillance . 
immunohistochemical differentiation of basal cell epithelioma from cutaneous appendages using monoclonal anti-glycoprotein antibody tnkh1 . its application in mohs ' micrographic surgery . tnkh1 , which was primarily developed to detect differentiated melanocytic tumor cells , was found to recognize basal keratinocytes of hair follicle and some basal keratinocytes of human epidermis . thus , tnkh1 decorated the basal cells of following structures : epidermis ( 39 of 54 , only part of each specimen [ opes ] ) , upper hair follicle ( one of 24 , opes ) , lower hair follicle ( 21 of 21 , very high rate of each specimen [ vhes ] ) , sebaceous duct ( 14 of 15 , vhes ) , sebaceous gland ( ten of 14 , germinative cells near duct ) , eccrine duct ( three of 19 , opes ) . epithelial tumors , considered to be derived from or differentiating toward hair follicle such as trichilemmoma ( one of one , vhes ) and basal cell epithelioma ( bce ) ( 32 of 32 , vhes ) were labeled not only in the peripheral cells but in their entirety . on the other hand , epidermal tumors , such as seborrheic keratosis ( ten of 11 , opes ) , actinic keratosis ( two of three , opes ) , and squamous cell carcinoma ( one of two , opes ) , showed an irregular peripheral basal cell staining as in normal epidermis . the apocrine sweat apparatus and eccrine secretory portion were negative . eccrine ductal tumors such as syringoma ( two tested ) , eccrine acrospiroma ( one ) , and eccrine carcinoma ( two ) were tnkh1 negative . taking advantage of this total labeling of bce versus peripheral labeling of the hair follicle , the authors could distinguish bce tissue from other structures clearly . among confusing structures the upper hair follicle and the eccrine duct were excluded easily because of their negative staining with tnkh1 . the lower hair follicle was tnkh1 positive but only in the outer basal layer , whereas the bce was tnkh1 positive in its entire basaloid cells . the result indicated that tnkh1 will be a useful antibody in mohs ' micrographic surgery . 
immunohistochemical demonstration of the placental form of glutathione s-transferase , a detoxifying enzyme in human gliomas . expression of the human placental form of glutathion s-transferase ( gst-pi ) in human gliomas was investigated by immunohistochemical methods , and the result was compared with that of normal human glial cells . the gliomas in this study were composed of five benign astrocytomas ( grade 2 ) , ten anaplastic astrocytomas ( grade 3 ) , and 16 glioblastomas ( grade 4 ) . normal human glial cells showed only a weak immunostaining response for gst-pi in the cytoplasm or some nuclear membranes . all of benign astrocytomas had diffusely weak gst-pi immunostaining , resembling that of normal glial cells . with increasing grade , gliomas showed a strongly positive reaction for gst-pi . the positive reactions were remarkable especially in the gemistocytes and giant cells in the high-grade gliomas . these results suggest that cells of gliomas have some detoxifying function and the expression of this detoxifying enzyme , gst-pi , is related to the degree of malignancy of the gliomas . 
helicobacter pylori and gastric carcinoma . serum antibody prevalence in populations with contrasting cancer risks . this investigation examined the correlation between helicobacter pylori ( hp ) infection , as reflected in immunoglobulin g serum antibodies , and the risk of gastric cancer . serum samples were obtained from populations with contrasting gastric cancer risks . the highest prevalence of hp infection , 93 % , was observed in the adult population at highest gastric cancer risk , the residents of pasto , colombia . in the lower risk colombian city of cali , a 63 % overall prevalence rate was found . both children and adults were sampled in new orleans , louisiana , where gastric cancer rates are high for blacks but not for whites . the prevalence of hp infection was significantly higher in black than in white adults , 70 % versus 43 % , p = 0.0001 . a higher prevalence was also detected in black compared with white children , 49 % versus 32 % , p = 0.01 ; however , an even greater disparity was noted when comparing children from two hospitals , regardless of race , which serve different socioeconomic groups . a prevalence rate of 54 % was found at charity hospital compared with 24 % ( p = 0.0001 ) at children 's hospital . our findings indicate that socioeconomic conditions , known to influence gastric cancer risk , are also important determinants of hp infection . 
expression of placental alkaline phosphatase in gastric and colorectal cancers . an immunohistochemical study using the prepared monoclonal antibody . the authors developed monoclonal antibodies ( moab ) against human placental alkaline phosphatase ( plap ) . four specific moab reacting only with plap and two nonspecific moab reacting equally with isozymes of alkaline phosphatase ( hepatic , intestinal , and placental ) were obtained . immunohistochemical staining with the specific moab showed that the cell membrane and cytoplasm of cancer cells were stained in gastric and colorectal carcinoma . the incidence of plap positivity was 23 % ( 25 of 107 ) of all gastric carcinomas . among gastric carcinomas , the 42 % ( 13 of 31 ) positivity of highly differentiated carcinoma ( papillary adenocarcinoma and well-differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma ) was a significantly higher rate than that found in poorly differentiated carcinoma ( poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma and signet-ring cell carcinoma , five of 41 , 12 % ) . the incidence of plap positivity was 11 % ( four of 35 ) in colorectal carcinoma . in contrast , gastric adenoma , intestinal metaplasia , and noncancerous tissue adjacent to cancer did not show staining . these results indicated that expression of plap was apt to occur in more highly differentiated gastric carcinoma and was highly specific for carcinoma in the gastrointestinal tract , although its incidence was not high . 
prognostic significance of type iv collagen and laminin immunoreactivity in urothelial carcinomas of the bladder . invasion of a carcinoma involves the degradation and penetration of the subepithelial basement membrane ( bm ) . this phenomenon might be used for histopathologic evaluation of neoplasms of the bladder . the authors studied the clinicopathologic data and tissue specimens of 125 cases of urothelial carcinomas collected prospectively . penetration of the bm was evaluated by immunohistochemical staining of the bm components laminin and type iv collagen . the use of this parameter as a prognostic indicator in bladder cancer was assessed . the 5-year survival rate of patients having tumors with an interrupted or absent bm was significantly lower than that of patients having tumors with an intact bm . the rate of progression was greater in tumors with an interrupted or absent bm than in tumors with an intact bm . no association was found between bm status and recurrence . however , a significant correlation between tumor stage and bm staining was found . a correlation was also found between ploidy and bm staining as well as between histologic grade and bm staining pattern . when evaluating histologic grade , stage , ploidy , age , and bm score as prognostic parameters , the stage of bladder carcinomas turned out to be the most important factor in predicting the survival rate and the progression-free survival . however , bm staining was found to be of value for early identification of microinvasion and is helpful for correct staging of urothelial carcinomas . 
primary breast lymphoma . an immunohistologic study of 20 new cases . primary malignant lymphomas of the breast ( pbl ) are uncommon . the authors report the clinical , histologic , and immunoperoxidase findings on 20 cases recorded at the alberta cancer registry over the last 23 years . these cases were then added to material on 257 cases abstracted from the literature and analyzed . it was found that there are two clinicopathologic types of pbl . the first affects pregnant or lactating women with bilateral , diffuse disease , is rapidly fatal , and corresponds histologically to a burkitt 's - type lymphoma . the second is unilateral at presentation and afflicts a broad age range , but primarily older women . this has a variable course only part of which is predicted by histologic grade and stage . tumor size , treatment , and side of presentation were not found to be significant prognostic factors . histologically , these tumors can be grouped into large cell b-cell lymphomas , monocytoid b-cell lymphomas ( mbcl ) , and undifferentiated , some of which may be t-cell . evidence suggesting that the mbcl of breast are the equivalent of the malignant lymphomas of the mucosa-associated lymphoid tissues ( malt ) is reviewed . the breast is a hormone-dependent member of the malt and therefore it is interesting that two of these tumors were strongly positive for estrogen receptors . 
estrogen receptor localization in normal and neoplastic epithelium of the uterine cervix . to investigate the estrogen receptor ( er ) status of cells during carcinogenesis of the uterine cervix , the immunohistochemical reactivity for a monoclonal anti-er antibody ( h 222 ) was studied in 26 normal cervical specimens , 21 cases of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) , and 21 cases of invasive cervical carcinoma . in addition , the presence of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) dna ( types 6/11 , 16/18 , or 31/33/35 ) was analyzed by in situ hybridization . in the normal cervix , basal cells of the squamous epithelium , metaplastic cells , and endocervical glandular cells were er positive . in contrast , neoplastic cells of cin ( 17 of 21 cases ) and invasive carcinoma ( 19 of 21 cases ) were er negative . the remaining four cases of cin and two cases of invasive carcinoma were focally er positive . the hpv dna analysis revealed that hpv dna in er-negative cases was either types 16/18 or undetectable , but all er-positive neoplasms contained hpv dna types 31/33/35 . these results suggest that most neoplastic cells in cin and invasive cervical carcinoma lose their er expression and that this may be related to the hpv dna types which they possess . 
cancer antigen 125 , carcinoembryonic antigen , and carbohydrate determinant 19-9 in ovarian tumors . the authors studied data of combination assays of tumor markers , because simultaneous elevation of different types of tumor markers in the serum was puzzling . they interpreted such phenomena regarding cancer antigen 125 , carcinoembryonic antigen , and carbohydrate determinant 19-9 in ovarian tumors . the tissue expression of the antigens was compared with preoperative serum levels . several different factors were found to cause the simultaneous elevation of two or three of these markers in the serum . furthermore , even when the levels of some of the tumor markers were raised in the serum , the ovarian tumor did not always produce the marker by itself . this study indicates that immunohistochemical identification of a marker in tumor tissue is prerequisite to the use of that marker in the serum to monitor disease status . 
chondrolipoangioma . a cartilage-containing benign mesenchymoma of soft tissue . the clinical and pathologic features of four cases of benign mesenchymoma in which mature cartilage represented the predominant component are reported . the distinctive histologic feature in all four cases was a lobular proliferation of cartilaginous tissue exhibiting a spectrum of hyaline cartilage , fibrocartilage , myxoid cartilage , and cartilage with ossification and even bone marrow formation , intimately associated with mature adipose tissue and vascular elements . the localization of these tumors was in the proximity of a bone , but not attached to the periosteum or in continuity with a joint . because these lesions may be mistaken for other cartilaginous neoplasms of soft tissue , recognition of this entity has potentially important diagnostic and therapeutic implications in that mutilating surgery may be avoided . 
dentofacial development in long-term survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia . a comparison of three treatment modalities . ninety-seven children who were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia before 10 years of age and treated with chemotherapy alone , chemotherapy plus 1800-cgy cranial irradiation ( rt ) , or chemotherapy plus 2400-cgy rt were evaluated for effects of therapy on dentofacial development . all patients were seen at least 5 years postdiagnosis . dental abnormalities were determined from panoramic radiographs , and craniofacial evaluations were made from lateral cephalometric radiographs . ninety-one ( 94 % ) of all patients and 41 ( 100 % ) of patients younger than 5 years of age at diagnosis had abnormal dental development . the severity of these abnormalities was greater in children who received treatment before 5 years of age and in those who received rt . observed dental abnormalities included tooth agenesis , arrested root development , microdontia , and enamel dysplasias . craniofacial abnormalities occurred in 18 of 20 ( 90 % ) of those patients who received chemotherapy plus 2400-cgy rt before 5 years of age . mean cephalometric values of this group showed significant deficient mandibular development . the results of this study suggest that the severity of dentofacial-developmental abnormalities secondary to antileukemia therapy are related to the age of the patient at the initiation of treatment and the use of cranial rt . 
clinical and prognostic assessment of patients with resected small peripheral lung cancer lesions . one hundred fifteen patients with small ( less than or equal to 2 cm in diameter ) peripheral lung cancer lesions underwent surgical treatment in the department of surgery , the research institute for chest diseases and cancer , tohoku university , miyagi prefecture , japan . the authors investigated several prognostic factors of these cases . the 5-year survival rate of these 115 patients was 70 % . various factors such as histologic type , nodal involvement , pleural involvement , pathologic stage , and curativity of the operation were revealed to affect survival significantly . in patients with and without nodal involvement , there was no significant difference between the survival rate of patients with lung cancer lesions smaller than 2 cm and those with lesions 2.1 to 3 cm . however , the rate of lymph node metastasis was significantly different in the group with lesions smaller than 2 cm compared with those with lesions 2.1 to 3 cm ( 21 % versus 43 % , respectively ) . 
choroid plexus tumors in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome . choroid plexus neoplasms are rare epithelial tumors of the central nervous system . a carcinoma of the choroid plexus occurred in a child from a family with the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome ( li-fraumeni or sbla syndrome ) , an inherited condition characterized by the development of diverse neoplasms ( sarcoma , breast cancer , brain tumors , leukemia , adrenal cortical carcinoma , and others ) . choroid plexus carcinomas were identified in two kindreds previously reported with the syndrome . the literature contains reports of choroid plexus neoplasms occurring in families and in individuals with multiple primary tumors . choroid plexus neoplasm may be a manifestation of the inherited proclivity to tumor development in the breast cancer-sarcoma syndrome . 
fallopian tube cancer . the roswell park experience . sixty-four patients with primary fallopian tube cancer treated at roswell park memorial institute from 1964 to 1987 underwent retrospective clinicopathologic review . in 40 patients fallopian tube cancer was the only primary , but in 24 patients primary fallopian tube cancer was part of a multifocal upper genital tract malignancy . of the 40 patients with unifocal fallopian disease , the median survival was 28 months . only 15 % of patients were alive and disease free with follow-up ranging from 22 to 141 months ( median , 90.5 months ) . survival was not associated with stage of disease , tumor histology , grade , or depth of invasion in this series . fourteen patients who received cisplatin-based chemotherapy were evaluable for response . three patients ( 21 % ) responded ; two complete and one partial . twelve patients without clinical evidence of disease underwent second-look procedures , ten laparotomy and two laparoscopy . four of ten second-look laparotomies were negative . secondary debulking was done in three of four patients with gross disease , one of which had a negative third-look laparotomy . negative laparotomy , second-look or third-look , was associated with improved survival ( p = 0.016 ) . one of the two laparoscopies was negative , but the patient recurred . in the remaining 24 patients cancer of the fallopian tube was part of a multifocal upper genital tract malignancy . in 12 patients tubal disease was invasive , and in 12 , it was in situ . separate primaries occurred in the ovaries ( n = 20 ) ; uterus ( n = 7 ) ; and cervix ( n = 2 ) . this represents 1.3 % of ovarian malignancies treated at roswell park memorial institute during the study period . fallopian tube cancer seems as virulent as ovarian cancer with few long-term survivors . it is frequently associated with other sites of upper genital tract malignancy . second-look laparotomy is an important predictor of survival . second-look laparoscopy may be useful if positive . 
true hermaphrodite with bilateral ovotestes , bilateral gonadoblastomas and dysgerminomas , 46 , xx/46 , xy karyotype , and a successful pregnancy . the first case ( to the authors ' knowledge ) is reported of a true hermaphrodite with bilateral ovotestes , bilateral gonadoblastomas and dysgerminomas , a 46 , xx/46 , xy karyotype , and a successful pregnancy . the true hermaphroditism was diagnosed during infancy . the patient was subsequently found to have a gonadoblastoma and a microscopic dysgerminoma in the gonad diagnosed as an ovotestis and excised during infancy . the successful pregnancy occurred when the patient was 29 years old . a year later a large gonadal tumor affecting the remaining gonad was excised . the gonad was found to be an ovotestis , and the tumor was a dysgerminoma arising from a gonadoblastoma . this case further emphasizes the malignant potential of the y chromosome in patients with abnormal gonads . 
extrahepatic metabolism of morphine occurs in humans . the pharmacokinetics of morphine was studied in six patients in whom a radiologic localization of an insulinoma was to be performed under general anesthesia . sampling was done in the peripheral artery , the mesenteric vein in five of the six patients , the hepatic vein , and the peripheral vein , as well as in urine . hepatic blood flow was estimated by an indocyanine green infusion technique at the end of the radiologic procedure . morphine terminal half-life was 92 + / - 9 minutes , total body clearance was 1260 ml.min-1 , and the hepatic extraction ratio was 0.65 + / - 0.11 . no concentration gradient was observed between the artery and the superior mesenteric vein , showing that no gut wall metabolism of morphine occurred . the total body clearance exceeded the hepatic clearance by 38 % . it was concluded that the extrahepatic extraintestinal clearance of morphine probably occurred through the kidney . 
insulin-like growth factor binding protein secretion by breast carcinoma cell lines : correlation with estrogen receptor status . breast tumor cell lines have been shown to secrete several distinct polypeptide growth factors , although conflicting results exist for the insulin-like growth factors ( igfs ) . in contrast a limited number of breast tumor cell lines have definitely been shown to secrete the high affinity igf binding proteins ( igfbps ) that modify igf actions . to characterize the types of igfbps that are secreted by breast tumor cell lines , conditioned medium was collected from seven separate tumor cell lines , three of which were estrogen receptor ( er ) negative , and four of which were er positive . all three of the er negative cell lines , mda-231 , mda-330 , and hs578t , secreted binding proteins of 49,000 and 43,000 mr ( igfbp-3 ) as well as 29,000 ( igfbp-1 ) and 24,000 mr. in contrast , all four er positive cell lines secreted 34,000 ( igfbp-2 ) or 24,000 mr forms , and none secreted the 49,000 and 43,000 or 29,000 mr forms . bt-20 , a cell line that is positive for er messenger rna ( mrna ) but negative for er protein , secreted predominantly a 34,000 mr protein . the amount of total igfbp activity released in 24 h ranged between 0.4 and 5.6 nm equivalents of igfbp-1 , and there was no significant difference between the er positive and negative cell lines . the mcf-7 cells that produced predominantly 34,000 and 24,000 mr forms showed a 1.8-fold increase in igfbp secretion after estrogen stimulation . immunoblotting and a specific ria for igfbp-1 showed that only the er negative lines mda-330 , mda-231 , and hs578t secreted this form . northern blotting analysis for the mrna encoding this protein showed that both mda-330 and mda-231 contained a single 1.6 kilobase mrna species that hybridized with an igfbp-1 complementary dna ( cdna ) probe . immunoblotting analysis of the other cell lines showed that only the 34,000 mr form secreted by the er positive cell lines reacted with igfbp-2 antisera . exposure of the conditioned media from the three er negative cell lines to n-glycanase revealed that the 49,000 and 43,000 mr forms of igfbp were glycosylated and therefore probably represent igfbp-3 . we conclude that er negative cell lines secrete three forms of igfbps , igfbp-1 , igfbp-3 , and a 24,000 mr form . in contrast , the er positive cell lines secrete predominantly igfbp-2 and the 24,000 mr form but do not secrete igfbp-3 or 1 . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
a simple and sensitive microtiter plate estrogen bioassay based on stimulation of alkaline phosphatase in ishikawa cells : estrogenic action of delta 5 adrenal steroids . we have developed an estrogen bioassay using the ishikawa human endometrial adenocarcinoma cell line growing in 96-well microtiter plates . alkaline phosphatase enzyme activity ( alkp ) in these cells is markedly stimulated by estrogens , and this enzyme can be easily quantified in situ using a chromogenic substrate . these cells are very sensitive to estrogens ; estradiol induces alkp at levels as low as 10 ( -12 ) m. antiestrogens completely block the action of estradiol . various estrogens stimulate alkp with potencies comparable to those achieved in vivo . the induction of alkp is specific for estrogens ; no other type of steroid , including androgens , progestins , mineralocorticoids , or glucocorticoids produce this effect . the stimulation of alkp in ishikawa cells is specific for estrogens , is highly reproducible and sensitive , and permits large numbers of samples to be assayed with ease . we have used this assay to investigate the estrogenic action of the adrenal delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroids . while pregnenolone is inactive , dehydroepiandrosterone and its sulfate ester induce alkp slightly . however , the c19 steroid , 5-androstene-3 beta , 17 beta-diol is considerably more estrogenic in this assay , although it stimulates ishikawa alkp with a potency of 1/30 ,000 that of estradiol . the stimulation by 5-androstene-3 beta ,17 beta-diol is inhibited by antiestrogens , but it is not blocked by the delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid isomerase/dehydrogenase inhibitor , cyanoketone , or by the aromatase inhibitor , 4-hydroxy-androstenedione . thus , neither conversion to a delta 4-3-ketone nor aromatization is required for the action of this unusual estrogen . 
alterations in opioid parameters in the hypothalamus of rats with estradiol-induced polycystic ovarian disease . the distribution and density of selectively labeled mu - , delta - , and kappa-opioid binding sites were examined by in vitro radioautography in the hypothalamus of normal , estradiol valerate ( ev ) - injected , and estradiol ( e2 ) - implanted female rats . hypothalamic beta-endorphin concentration was also examined by ria in these three groups of animals . quantitative analysis of film radioautographs demonstrated a selective increase in mu-opioid binding in the medial preoptic area of ev-treated , but not of e2-implanted rats . however , both these estrogenized groups exhibited a reduction in the density of delta-opioid binding in the suprachiasmatic nucleus . statistically significant changes between either estrogenized groups were not observed for kappa-opioid binding . results on the hypothalamic concentration of beta-endorphin indicated a marked reduction in ev-injected animals with respect to controls . in contrast , the e2-implanted animals exhibited beta-endorphin concentrations similar to controls . the present results confirm the increase in opioid receptor binding previously reported in the hypothalamus of ev-treated rats and further demonstrate that this increase is confined to the medial preoptic area and exclusively concerns mu-opioid receptors . the concomitant reduction in beta-endorphin levels observed in the same group of animals suggests that the observed increase in mu-opioid binding could reflect a chronic up-regulation of the receptor in response to compromised beta-endorphin input . given the restriction of this effect to the site of origin of lhrh neurons and the demonstrated inhibitory role of opioids on lhrh release , it is tempting to postulate that such up-regulation could lead to the suppression of the plasma lh pattern that characterizes polycystic ovarian disease in the ev-treated rat . 
rapid inactivation and phosphorylation of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii in y-79 human retinoblastoma cells after exposure to phorbol ester . pyroglutamyl peptidase ii ( ec 3.4.19 . - ) , a membrane-bound metalloproteinase , is a highly specific trh-degrading enzyme . exposure of y-79 human retinoblastoma cells to 12-0-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate ( tpa ) decreased the activity of this enzyme in a time - and concentration-dependent manner ( ic50 5 x 10 ( -9 ) m ) . after 15 min of tpa treatment , only 10 % of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii activity remained . tpa treatment did not affect the activity of the cytosolic enzyme pyroglutamyl peptidase i ( ec 3.4.19.3 ) or the membrane-bound enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase iv ( ec 3.4.19.3 ) . pretreatment of the cells with the protein kinase c inhibitors h-7 or sphingosine prevented the inactivation of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii by tpa . the time course of the tpa-mediated effect paralleled the time course of translocation and activation of protein kinase c in this cell line . immunoblot analysis demonstrated that inactivation of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii was not due to dissociation or internalization of this enzyme molecule . incubation of tpa-activated y-79 cell membranes with gamma - [ 32p ] - atp followed by immunoprecipitation revealed a time-dependent phosphorylation of a 48 kilodalton subunit of pyroglutamyl peptidase ii . these studies indicate that the phorbol ester effect is mediated by protein kinase c , and reveal a mechanism of potentiation of the action of trh at its target sites . 
squamous cell carcinomas often produce more than a single bone resorption-stimulating factor : role of interleukin-1 alpha * . several cultured human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines ( scc-4 , scc-12b2 , scc-12f2 , ec-gi-10 , and ben ) and one normal keratinocyte line ( epy-1 ) were investigated for the production of bone resorption-stimulating activity ( brsa ) . conditioned medium ( cm ) from each of the six cell lines stimulated bone resorption in neonatal mouse calvariae in culture . the brsa of scc-12f2 and ec-gi-10 was inhibited completely by antibody to interleukin-1 alpha ( il-1 alpha ) , whereas the brsa in cm from the ben , scc-4 , scc-12b2 , and epy-1 cell lines was only partially inhibited by anti-il-1 alpha . addition of indomethacin to the calvarial cultures also partially inhibited the brsa from ec-gi-10 , scc-4 , scc-12b2 , and epy-1 cells ; the brsa from ben and scc-12f2 cells was inhibited completely by indomethacin . camp production by calvariae was determined after a 60-min incubation with cm . cm from ec-gi-10 , ben , scc-4 , and epy-1 stimulated camp production by bone . preincubation of cm from ben , ec-gi-10 , scc-4 , and epy-1 cells with two antisera against pth-related protein [ pthrp ; one specific for two pthrp - ( 1-141 ) , the other recognizing both pthrp - ( 1-40 ) and pthrp - ( 1-141 ) ] completely inhibited the camp-stimulating activity . using specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for il-1 alpha and il-1 beta , il-1 alpha was measured in cm of the scc-4 , scc-12b2 , scc-12f2 , and epy-1 cell lines . il-1 beta was undetectable ( less than 0.1 ng/ml ) in cm from all cell lines . our findings indicate that the brsa secreted by scc-12f2 cells can be accounted for largely or entirely by il-1 alpha , while the activity produced by scc-12b2 includes il-1 alpha and another unknown factor ( s ) . the brsa produced by ec-gi-10 , ben , scc-4 , and epy-1 cells includes both il-1 alpha and pthrp . we conclude that il-1 alpha may be a more prevalent and biologically significant component of the brsa produced by sccs than previously recognized . 
autoradiographic evaluation of monoclonal antibodies ' access to melanoma-associated antigens in melanoma xenografts . autoradiography of nude mice bearing human malignant melanoma xenografts was performed to characterize the distribution pattern of radioiodinated anti-melanoma monoclonal antibodies ( moab ) and fragments in macroscopic tumor nodules . non-uniformity of radioactivity distribution was seen in all moab-xenograft combinations . the predominant patterns were marked deposition of radioactivity either in the periphery of nodules or in sharply delimited intra-tumoral foci . these patterns were generated by limitations in the accessibility of melanoma tissue rather than gross necrosis or heterogeneity of antigen expression . computer-aided densitometry of autoradiograms was used to elaborate the difference of accumulation in intra-tumoral hot spots versus cold areas . it was found that increasing uniformity was achieved by increasing the dose of moab ( i.e. , intact igg ) injected , whereas a reduction in the size of moab ( igg greater than f ( ab ' ) 2 greater than fab ) showed no such effect . 
ability of circular extrachromosomal dna molecules to carry amplified mycn proto-oncogenes in human neuroblastomas in vivo . amplification of the proto-oncogene mycn ( also known as n-myc ) in neuroblastomas has been shown to correlate with both disease stage and prognosis , yet little is known about the dna structures that carry amplified mycn genes in neuroblastomas in vivo . we have used dna irradiation and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis to analyze mycn amplification structures in eight neuroblastomas from separate patients ( four primary tumors and four metastatic lesions exhibiting mycn amplification ) . six of the eight neuroblastomas ( three primary tumors and three metastatic lesions ) exhibited mycn dna irradiation profiles consistent with the presence of circular extrachromosomal dna amplification structures . five neuroblastomas possessed amplification structures within the size range of double minute chromosomes , and one contained smaller dna circles . two neuroblastomas exhibited mycn dna irradiation patterns consistent with larger ( presumably chromosomal ) amplification structures . multiple sizes of dna circles were observed in the neuroblastomas of four different patients , implying in vivo multimerization of amplification structures . the presence of circular mycn amplification structures in six of eight neuroblastomas examined suggests that circular dna molecules are important structures in in vivo gene amplification . 
history of cigarette smoking and risk of leukemia and myeloma : results from the adventist health study . the risks of leukemia and myeloma associated with cigarette smoking were evaluated in a cohort study of 34,000 seventh-day adventists . although seventh-day adventists do not smoke by church proscription , many are adult converts who smoked cigarettes prior to their baptism into the church . in comparison with those who never smoked , ex-smokers experience a relative risk of 2.00 ( 95 % confidence interval = 1.01-3 .95 ) for leukemia and 3.01 ( 95 % confidence interval = 1.13-8 .05 ) for myeloma . risks increased in a dose-response fashion with increasing numbers of cigarettes smoked daily for both leukemia ( trend p = .009 ) and myeloma ( trend p = .005 ) . also , the risks of both leukemia and myeloma increased with the total duration of cigarette smoking . the cigarette smoking-leukemia relationship was strongest for myeloid leukemia , for which ex-smokers experienced a relative risk of 2.24 ( 95 % confidence interval = 0.91-5 .53 ) . these data lend support to the hypothesis that cigarette smoke may induce malignant degeneration in bone marrow and its products . 
glycolysis as primary energy source in tumor cell chemotaxis . the energy requirements via glycolytic pathways were directly measured in migrating tumor cells . motility in the metastatic human melanoma cell line a2058 , stimulated by insulinlike growth factor i ( igf-i ) , depends on glycolysis in the presence of glucose as its principal source of energy . motility in glucose-free medium was 75 % reduced and utilized mitochondrial respiration ( inhibited by oligomycin ) . with increasing ( physiologic ) glucose concentrations , there was a dramatic shift to anaerobic glycolysis as the energy source and 93 % elimination of the oligomycin inhibition of motility . oxamate , an inhibitor of glycolysis , inhibited motility at all glucose concentrations . co2 production from glycolysis and from the hexose monophosphate shunt was measured in migrating tumor cells . the time course and glucose-dose dependence of glycolytic co2 production correlated directly with motility . in contrast , mitochondrial co2 production was inversely related to glucose concentration . a monoclonal antibody for the igf-i receptor inhibited both motility and glycolytic co2 production , indicating that both processes are receptor mediated . 
influence of organ environment on extracellular matrix degradative activity and metastasis of human colon carcinoma cells orthotopic implantation of human colon carcinoma cells is useful for studying the behavior of metastatic subpopulations . we observed that the parental line and variants of human colon carcinoma km12 cells were all tumorigenic following implantation into the subcutis or cecal wall of balb/c nude mice . their ability to metastasize to distant organ sites varied , however , with the site of growth . subcutaneous ( sc ) tumors did not produce visceral metastases , whereas cecal tumors metastasized to the regional mesenteric lymph nodes and to the liver . to examine the influence of organ environment on the extracellular matrix-degrading activity of the tumors , we inoculated human colon carcinoma cells into the subcutis or cecal wall and after 7 weeks isolated and cultured the tumors in serum-free medium . the conditioned media of sc tumors contained very low levels of type iv collagenase ( gelatinase ) and heparanase ( heparan sulfate-specific endo-beta-d-glucuronidase ) , whereas the media of the cecal wall tumors contained high levels of both . zymograms of the media revealed that the intracecal human colon carcinomas secreted more than three times the amount of latent and active forms of 92-kd type iv collagenase than did the sc tumors . moreover , only the conditioned media of intracecal tumors contained latent and active forms of 64-kd type iv collagenase . histochemical analysis using rabbit antiserum raised against the synthetic peptides of 72-kd procollagenase type iv showed type iv collagenase in the intracecal tumors ; human colon carcinoma growing sc , however , were not stained significantly . these results suggest that factors in the organ environment may affect production and secretion of tumor extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes , and these factors may modify the metastatic behavior of human colon carcinoma cells in nude mice . 
bolus versus infusion regimens of etoposide and cisplatin in treatment of non-small cell lung cancer : a study of the north central cancer treatment group in an effort to test clinically the hypothesis that the duration of cellular exposure to etoposide ( vp-16 ) and cisplatin ( cddp ) is an important determinant of cytotoxicity , we performed a phase iii randomized trial comparing an outpatient bolus regimen of combined vp-16 and cddp with a sequential infusion over 72 hours of these same two drugs . all patients had stage iv non-small cell lung cancer , and survival was the primary end point . of 113 patients randomly allocated to the study , 108 were assessable for response , survival , and toxicity . a major response was observed in 20 ( 37 % ) of 54 patients on the bolus regimen and in 16 ( 30 % ) of 54 patients receiving infusion therapy . the median time to progression was 61 and 88 days for bolus and infusion therapy , respectively . the median survival time was 148 and 157 days , respectively ( p = .71 ) . study results were not consistent with the possibility that infusion therapy could be associated with a 50 % improvement in median survival , i.e. from 5 months to 7 1/2 months . toxicity was primarily myelosuppression and was significantly greater with the infusion regimen . we conclude that infusion therapy as tested in this protocol with vp-16 and cddp does not offer any advantage in response rate , time to disease progression , or survival as compared with bolus therapy . in addition , infusion therapy is associated with a greater degree of neutropenia and more treatment-related deaths . 
mechanism of antitumor activity of tumor necrosis factor alpha with hyperthermia in a tumor necrosis factor alpha-resistant tumor . cells from a radiation-induced fibrosarcoma ( rif-1 ) are exceedingly resistant to tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) in vitro . we tested whether the addition of mild hyperthermia ( 42.5 degrees c , 30 minutes ) could enhance tnf-alpha activity against rif-1 tumors growing in syngeneic hosts ( c3h mice ) . tnf-alpha was administered intratumorally . tumor cell killing essentially was not measurable following tnf-alpha , hyperthermia , or a combination of the two . single-modality treatments also had no effect on tumor growth delay or on the x-ray dose ( given 24 hours after the primary treatment ) required to sterilize 50 % of the tumors . the combination of tnf-alpha and hyperthermia , however , resulted in a marked increase in tumor doubling time and a highly significant reduction in the x-ray dose required to sterilize the tumors . syngeneic lymph nodal lymphocytes and blood leukocytes did not appear to mediate the action of tnf-alpha on rif-1 cells in vitro . necrosis and hemorrhage were the most prominent histopathological alterations in the treated tumors . electron microscopic studies 6 hours after therapy showed increased damage to capillary endothelial cells and accumulation of neutrophils in the capillaries of tumors treated with tnf-alpha with or without heat , suggesting that neutrophils may mediate the endothelial cell injury . these observations indicate a greater than additive tumoricidal effect of tnf-alpha with hyperthermia . furthermore , they support the concept that the interaction between the two agents damages the vasculature , compromising the microcirculation and ultimately causing ischemic tumor necrosis . 
segregation analysis of breast cancer from the cancer and steroid hormone study : histologic subtypes the segregation pattern of breast cancer in white families from the cancer and steroid hormone study was investigated . families were categorized into four groups based on the histologic type of breast cancer in the probands : ductal cancer , lobular cancer , adenocarcinoma , and medullary cancer . the ductal cancer sample was further split into a premenopausal-proband and a postmenopausal-proband subset . results for six complex segregation analyses are presented ; the findings suggest heterogeneity in the transmission of breast cancer . for all analyses , there was no evidence for a multifactorial component in the mixed model , ie , a major locus plus other transmission , genetic and/or cultural . interpretation of the medullary cancer , adenocarcinoma , and lobular cancer analyses does not permit discrimination among the major locus models . segregation of breast cancer in the entire ductal sample was consistent with autosomal recessive transmission . in the ductal subanalyses , a recessive gene was sufficient to explain the breast cancer distribution when the proband had postmenopausal breast cancer . in contrast , when the proband had premenopausal breast cancer , the transmission model was consistent with a dominant major gene , with sporadic cases of disease . 
results of stereotactic brachytherapy used in the initial management of patients with glioblastoma . recent studies have shown a survival benefit for patients with recurrent glioblastomas treated with stereotactic brachytherapy . on the basis of these encouraging results , we began a prospective study in 1987 to evaluate the use of brachytherapy in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma . patients were considered eligible for this study if they met the following criteria : karnofsky performance status 70 % or greater ; tumor size not greater than 5 cm in any dimension ; a radiographically well delineated , supratentorial lesion not involving the ependymal surfaces ; and pathologically confirmed glioblastoma . we treated 35 such patients between 1987 and 1990 with stereotactic brachytherapy as part of their initial therapy . the treatment protocol involved surgery , partial brain external-beam radiotherapy ( 59.4 gy in 33 fractions ) , and stereotactic brachytherapy with temporary high-activity iodine 125 sources giving an additional 50 gy to the tumor bed . chemotherapy was not used in the initial management of these 35 patients . to compare our results with those obtained in a matched control group , we identified 40 patients with glioblastoma treated with surgery and external radiotherapy , with or without chemotherapy , between 1977 and 1986 at our institution . these patients had clinical and radiographic characteristics that would have made them eligible for the brachytherapy protocol . survival rates at 1 and 2 years after diagnosis were 87 % and 57 % , respectively , for patients receiving brachytherapy versus 40 % and 12.5 % , respectively , for the controls ( p less than .001 ) . we conclude that stereotactic brachytherapy improves the survival of patients with glioblastoma when it can be incorporated into the initial treatment approach . unfortunately , only about one in four patients with glioblastoma are suitable candidates for brachytherapy at the time of initial presentation . 
lipolytic factors associated with murine and human cancer cachexia . we have identified a lipolytic factor in extracts of a cachexia-inducing murine carcinoma ( mac16 ) that shows characteristics of an acidic peptide and appears to be composed of three fractions of apparent molecular weights corresponding to 3 kd , 1.5 kd , and 0.7 kd , as determined by exclusion chromatography . material with identical chromatographic and molecular weight characteristics was also present in the serum of patients with clinical cancer cachexia but absent from normal serum , even under conditions of starvation . the mac16 lipid factor , when injected into animals bearing the non-cachexia-inducing tumor mac13 , was capable of inducing weight loss without a significant reduction in food intake . similar lipolytic material , although in lower concentration , was also found in the mac13 tumor extracts . these findings suggest that cachexia may arise from the enhanced expression of a lipolytic factor associated with tumor cells . 
effects of fudr on primary-cultured colon carcinomas metastatic to the liver . hepatic arterial infusion of fluorodeoxyuridine ( fudr ) has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of metastatic colorectal carcinoma of the liver . in this study , the direct cytotoxic effect of fudr was measured on ten metastatic and two primary-site colorectal carcinomas in a primary culture assay system . overall , clinically achievable concentrations of fudr ( 0.4 to 4 microm ) induced partial cell kill in 75 % of tumors , including a greater than 50 % reduction in viable tumor cell number in only two tumors and less than 50 % in the remaining seven . total cell kill was not observed in any tumor . three tumors were resistant to these fudr concentrations . tumor sensitivity correlated with the size of the tumor growth fraction . increasing the exposure time to fudr from 3 to 7 days approximately doubled the magnitude of the response . 5-flurouracil and cisplatin , at clinically achievable concentrations , were more toxic to metastatic tumor cells than fudr . because of the limited chemosensitivity of metastatic colorectal tumor cells to fudr in vitro , we postulate that other mechanisms besides direct cytotoxicity contribute to the clinical efficacy of fudr in vivo . 
recurrence of resected esophagogastric adenocarcinoma : results of re-resection . isolated local recurrence following potentially curative resection for carcinoma of the esophagus or esophagogastric junction does not necessarily imply pending systemic disease and early demise . while radiation alone or in combination with chemotherapy is standard treatment for such patients , resection is another available option . resection may also be a consideration should localized disease persist after non-operative therapy in the absence of metastases . a 5 year retrospective review was performed examining 204 resections performed prior to 1989 . only 5 patients underwent resection of locally recurrent esophagogastric ( eg ) adenocarcinoma during this period . no squamous carcinoma recurrences were resected . one patient is well 15 months later while another died at 18 months of other causes without recurrence . recurrence after re-resection occurred at 8 , 11 , and 24 months in the 3 other patients . although there were no postoperative deaths , major complications occurred in 4 patients . all 5 patients swallowed normally after operation . 
cryoprobe as a " handle " for resection of metastatic liver tumors . resection of metastatic liver tumors can be a difficult and risky procedure . using a cryoprobe as a " handle " can greatly facilitate resection by providing a taut surface for transection and improving visualization of ductal and vascular structures . in addition , this technique may decrease the risk of contaminating surrounding tissues with cancer cells , and may inhibit tumor recurrence within the margins of resection . 
extended neck dissection . from the time crile described radical neck dissection in 1906 , this surgical procedure became popular in the management of metastatic cancer in the neck . over the past two decades , the modified neck dissection has been effectively utilized for conservation of function and cosmesis while achieving the same oncologic goals . however , there are several instances where the above standard procedures are not adequate for resection of malignant tumors . although there is a definite trend toward conservation procedures , extended neck dissection is often necessary especially in patients with n2 and n3 disease . apart from the standard structures removed in radical neck dissection , the other structures removed in extended neck dissection include skin , the digastric muscle , hypoglossal nerve , vagus nerve , sympathetic chain , ramus mandibularis , carotid artery , tracheo-esophageal nodes , etc . over the past seven years , we have performed 40 extended neck dissections . all the patients had n2 or n3 disease in the neck . nine patients had unknown primaries . thirteen patients had their primary tumors in the oral cavity and 11 in the laryngopharynx . five patients had primary tumor in the salivary glands and two patients had metastatic melanoma . patients who underwent extensive skin excision had pectoralis myocutaneous flap reconstruction . all patients received postoperative radiation therapy . one patient died of cardiac problems 4 weeks after operation . local control was achieved in 70 % . the most difficult region for local control was the disease behind the mastoid process , and the most difficult problems were patients with involvement of the subdermal lymphatics . our data suggests that there are definite situations where extended neck dissection is indicated with satisfactory local control of the nodal disease . 
immune-competent cells of regional lymph nodes in colorectal cancer patients : ii . immunohistochemical analysis of leu-7 + cells . distribution of leu-7 + cells in cancer tissues and regional lymph nodes was immunohistochemically examined to estimate the role of nk cells in colorectal cancer patients . leu-7 + cells were rarely observed both in the primary and distant metastatic lesions , but the number of these cells was large in the germinal center of the lymph nodes . studies of leu-7 + cell population in the lymph node indicated that intermediate nodes in n0 and n1 groups showed significantly higher values than those in the control group . comparative study of the population in identical patients revealed a significantly higher rate in the intermediate nodes than in the paracolic nodes both in n0 and n1 groups . these data suggest that leu-7 + cells might be related to the defense mechanism of regional lymph nodes against tumor . 
gamma-detecting probe and autoradiographic studies of radiolabeled antibody b72 .3 in cx-1 colon xenografts . nude mice bearing cx-1 colon tumors were injected with 50 microci 125i-labeled monoclonal antibody ( mab ) b72 .3 . radioactivity in tumors was studied with the gamma detecting probe ( gdp ) on days 1 , 3 , 7 , and 10 after mab injection . on each day , two mice were sacrificed and sections were examined with autoradiography ( arg ) , immunoperoxidase methods ( imp ) , and routine stains . mean probe counts showed increasing tumor to background ratios and arg demonstrated a progressive increase in radionuclide in the tumors . the distribution of 125i was primarily around the vascular spaces on day 1 , but by day 3 and progressively it appeared in tumor gland lumina and necrotic areas . a regional correlation was shown between radionuclide in vascular spaces and its sequestration in tumor elements . 
surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly : a case control study . surgical wound infection occurs in fewer than 5 % of operations . nevertheless , it represents the second most common type of hospital-acquired infection and results in increased morbidity and mortality . as with all nosocomial infections , the rate of surgical wound infection increases with age . patients over 65 years of age run an approximately 15 % risk of surgical wound infection . two-thirds of patients with invasive cancer other than non-melanotic skin cancer are aged 65 years and over . over half of them are treated surgically for their cancer . cancer and other chronic diseases have been cited as possible causes of the increased risk of nosocomial infection among the elderly . using the foothills hospital wound study data base as the sampling frame , we conducted a case-control study of surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly . cancer was found not to be a risk factor for surgical wound infection . the results are discussed in relation to the role of immunity in both disorders . 
long survival and prognostic factors in hepatocellular carcinoma . we studied survival and prognostic factors in all cases of hepatocellular carcinoma seen at a midwestern teaching hospital from 1947 through 1986 . of the 70 cases , 56 were diagnosed during life and 14 at autopsy . there were 47 males and 23 females with age at diagnosis ranging from 14 to 88 . median survival for the 56 patients diagnosed during life was 106 days . only 11 patients lived longer than one year . two patients were long survivors and presumed cured , one living 27 years after diagnosis and surgical treatment and the other 19 years . cox regression model showed young age at diagnosis and low stage of disease at diagnosis to be significant predictors of long survival . white patients survived nearly twice as long as black patients but the difference was not significant . gender and year of diagnosis did not appear to be important determinants of survival . pathologic material was still available for one of the two long survivors and the histology was that of fibrolamellar carcinoma of young adults . 
carcinoid tumors . the authors carried out a retrospective study of 32 patients ( 23 m , 9 f ) with carcinoid tumors who were diagnosed and treated at harlem hospital center , new york , from 1967 to 1988 . all the patients were black and the commonest sites were the ileum ( 28.1 % ) , rectosigmoid and rectum ( 21.9 % ) , and the appendix and lung ( 15.6 % each ) . metastasis correlated with site , size , and depth of the primary tumor and occurred in 12 patients ( 38 % ) , most frequently to the regional lymph nodes and liver . carcinoid syndrome developed in 12.5 % ( 3 f , 1 m ) . surgical resection for cure or palliation was the mainstay of treatment . overall 5 year survival rate was 66 % , and for those with metastases was 0 % . the poorer survival rates are probably related to the socioeconomic status of our patient population . the only observed racial difference compared to other series is the preponderance of males , and the disproportionately higher ratio of females with the carcinoid syndrome . 
symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients : the role of fluid cytology . clinical and cytologic findings in 21 breast cancer patients with symptomatic pericardial effusion are presented . the etiology of the pericardial effusion was definitely malignant , by cytology/histology in 13 patients ( 62 % ) , and suspected malignant by cytology in 2 patients ( 9 % ) . one patient ( 5 % ) with definitely nonmalignant pericardial effusion by cytology was found to be histologically positive at autopsy . in 5 patients ( 24 % ) there was no histological/cytological evidence of malignancy ; radiation pericarditis could be the etiology in 4 of these 5 patients . the median time from the diagnosis of breast cancer to the development of symptomatic pericardial effusion was 60 months ( range : 1-219 months ) . ten patients developed cardiac tamponade ; they were treated by either pericardiocentesis or pericardiectomy . the mean survival of patients with negative cytology/histology was 12 months ; patients with suspicious cytology had a mean survival of 9 months ; patients with malignant effusion , treated by pericardiectomy , had a mean survival of 22.3 months , while patients with malignant pericardial effusion , who were not subjected to surgery , had a mean survival of 4.7 months , only . it is concluded that the etiology of symptomatic pericardial effusion in breast cancer patients is not always malignant , which emphasizes the role of fluid cytology in establishing definite diagnosis . the survival probability is a function of the extent of extracardiac disease ; among patients with malignant pericardial effusion those selected for pericardiectomy have a longer than average survival . 
hemicorporectomy : a collective review . hemicorporectomy or translumbar amputation has been described as the most revolutionary of all operative procedures . frederick e. kredel , who first voiced the concept of the operation in 1950 , referred to it as halfectomy . demonstration of his cadaver studies established the feasibility of the operation . amputation is effected through the lower lumbar area of the body . necessary life functions are preserved in the upper torso . kredel envisioned hemicorporectomy as a curative operation for locally advanced cancer , limited to the pelvis , not encompassable by standard operative intervention . additional indications are intractable decubitus ulcers with malignant change , particularly in paraplegics ; pelvic organs , and bone infection with nonhealing fistulae ; and crushing trauma to the pelvis . the first hemicorporectomy operation was reported in 1960 . thirty-four operations have been recorded in the world literature . two heretofore unreported cases are added , raising the total to 36 . review of these 36 cases confirms the conviction that hemicorporectomy is a humane and ethical alternative to the suffering encumbered by advancing , painful , malodorous malignant disease not treatable by conventional means . while cure rates are not substantial , the best results are reported in paraplegics with intractable decubitus ulcers with or without malignancy . rehabilitation is prolonged and costly . most survivors have been restored to preoperative occupations or other gainful employment . 
the use of interferon alpha-c in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma arising in a congenital solitary kidney . three cases of renal cell carcinoma in a congenital solitary kidney are presented . treatment with recombinant interferon alpha-c was administered in two cases . a subjective response occurred in one case . the literature is reviewed with respect to treatment options and prognostic factors . 
community lifestyle characteristics and risk of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in children . high rates of leukaemia in children and young people have been associated with features of community isolation and population growth . incidence data collected by two specialist registries were used to compare incidence rates at ward level with relevant ward characteristics derived from routine census and ordnance survey data for england and wales . an excess risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( all ) was found for wards which are farthest from large urban centres . the excess was greatest for wards of higher socioeconomic status and for children aged 1-7 years ( the childhood peak ) , for which a two-fold excess was seen . these findings in general support the hypothesis that childhood leukaemia has an infectious aetiology . 
matched group study of surgical resection versus cobalt-60 plaque radiotherapy for primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma . we report the results of a nonrandomized , matched-group , survival and visual preservation study of patients with a choroidal or ciliary body melanoma managed by microsurgical resection of the tumor versus cobalt-60 episcleral plaque radiotherapy . each treatment group consisted of 30 patients . all patients were matched on a case-by-case basis in terms of tumor size ( largest linear tumor dimension ) , location of the anterior tumor margin relative to the ora serrata , location of the posterior tumor margin relative to the equator , and age at the time of treatment . although the estimated actuarial 5-year survival probability was slightly greater in the resection group ( 85.2 % ) than in the cobalt plaque group ( 81.8 % ) , this difference was neither clinically impressive nor statistically significant . in contrast , there was a substantially higher rate of early posttreatment severe visual loss in the resection group ( p = .0008 , mantel-haenszel test ) . 
interleukin-2 immunotherapy in children . immunotherapy with interleukin ( il ) -2 possesses great potential in the treatment of immune-mediated diseases and cancers . however , only a few reports on a small number of children have appeared in the literature . from march 1988 to march 1989 , 11 children and adolescents were treated with il-2 . they included 1 patient with hepatocellular carcinoma , 1 with hepatoblastoma , 6 with childhood atopic dermatitis , and 3 with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . the dosages ranged from 10,000 to 50,000 u/kg every 8 hours by intravenous drip . the following side effects were observed : anorexia , fever , and chillness ( 100 % ) , general malaise ( 82 % ) , irritability ( 64 % ) , diarrhea ( 100 % ) , nausea and vomiting ( 73 % ) , weight gain ( 82 % ) , edema ( 82 % ) , abdominal distension ( 73 % ) , oliguria ( 82 % ) , cough ( 91 % ) , dyspnea ( 27 % ) , pleural effusion ( 40 % ) , hypotension ( 82 % ) , skin eruption ( 82 % ) , oral ulcer ( 18 % ) , enlarged liver ( 73 % ) liver function abnormalities ( 82 % ) , renal function impairment ( 36 % ) , electrolyte imbalance ( 73 % ) , anemia ( 91 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 54 % ) , leukopenia ( 18 % ) , and eosinophilia ( 73 % ) . immunologically , numbers of natural killer cells were increased and natural killer and lymphokine-activated killer cell activities were augmented after il-2 treatment . there was a tendency for serum levels of il-2 and receptor il-2 to decrease , especially in patients with atopic eczema . ten patients ( 91 % ) completed one course ( 9 to 12 days ) of therapy , and the remaining patient interrupted the treatment because of intolerable adverse effects . clinically , complete remission for 3 months was obtained in 1 juvenile rheumatoid arthritis patient , transient improvement ( 2 to 6 weeks ) in all atopic dermatitis patients , minor response in the hepatoblastoma patient , and no response in the patient with hepatocellular carcinoma . 
congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system : a new clinical classification . the numerous clinical presentations of congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system in children and the confusing terminology used to describe their pathologic diagnoses impede the physician 's understanding of the condition . the clinical classification based on the actual symptoms of the congenital problems we have presented here should help the physician identify the specific abnormality and a potential treatment . future research should concentrate on the specific causes and the treatment of these congenital abnormalities . 
tissue-specific transformation by epidermal growth factor receptor : a single point mutation within the atp-binding pocket of the erbb product increases its intrinsic kinase activity and activates its sarcomagenic potential . avian c-erbb is activated to a leukemia oncogene following truncation of its amino-terminal , ligand-binding domain by retroviral insertion . the insertionally activated transcripts encode protein products that have constitutive tyrosine kinase activity and that can induce erythro-leukemia but not sarcomas . we have found that a single point mutation within the atp-binding pocket of the tyrosine kinase domain in this truncated molecule can increase the ability of this oncogene to induce anchorage-independent growth of fibroblasts in vitro and fibrosarcoma formation in vivo . associated with this increased transforming potential is a corresponding increase in the kinase activity of the mutant erbb protein product . the mutation , which converts a valine to isoleucine at position 157 of the insertionally activated c-erbb product , is at a residue that is highly conserved within the protein kinase family . to our knowledge , this is the first demonstration of a point mutation in the atp-binding pocket that activates a tyrosine kinase . 
v-ha-ras transgene abrogates the initiation step in mouse skin tumorigenesis : effects of phorbol esters and retinoic acid . experimental carcinogenesis has led to a concept that defines two discrete stages in the development of skin tumors : ( i ) initiation , which is accomplished by using a mutagen that presumably activates a protooncogene , and ( ii ) promotion , which is a reversible process brought about most commonly by repeated application of phorbol esters . we have created a transgenic mouse strain that carries the activated v-ha-ras oncogene fused to the promoter of the mouse embryonic alpha-like , zeta-globin gene . unexpectedly , these animals developed papillomas at areas of epidermal abrasion and , because abrasion can also serve as a tumor-promoting event in mutagen-treated mouse skin , we tested these mice for their ability to respond to phorbol ester application . within 6 weeks virtually all treated carrier mice had developed multiple papillomas , some of which went on to develop squamous cell carcinomas and , more frequently , underlying sarcomas . we conclude that the oncogene " preinitiates " carrier mice , replacing the initiation/mutagenesis step and immediately sensitizing them to the action of tumor promoters . in addition , treatment of the mice with retinoic acid dramatically delays , reduces , and often completely inhibits the appearance of promoter-induced papillomas . this strain has use in screening tumor promoters and for assessing antitumor and antiproliferative agents . 
multisurface method of pattern separation for medical diagnosis applied to breast cytology . multisurface pattern separation is a mathematical method for distinguishing between elements of two pattern sets . each element of the pattern sets is comprised of various scalar observations . in this paper , we use the diagnosis of breast cytology to demonstrate the applicability of this method to medical diagnosis and decision making . each of 11 cytological characteristics of breast fine-needle aspirates reported to differ between benign and malignant samples was graded 1 to 10 at the time of sample collection . nine characteristics were found to differ significantly between benign and malignant samples . mathematically , these values for each sample were represented by a point in a nine-dimensional space of real variables . benign points were separated from malignant ones by planes determined by linear programming . correct separation was accomplished in 369 of 370 samples ( 201 benign and 169 malignant ) . in the one misclassified malignant case , the fine-needle aspirate cytology was so definitely benign and the cytology of the excised cancer so definitely malignant that we believe the tumor was missed on aspiration . our mathematical method is applicable to other medical diagnostic and decision-making problems . 
embryonic stem cell virus , a recombinant murine retrovirus with expression in embryonic stem cells . the expression of moloney murine leukemia virus and vectors derived from it is restricted in undifferentiated mouse embryonal carcinoma and embryonal stem ( es ) cells . we have developed a retroviral vector , the murine embryonic stem cell virus ( mesv ) , that is active in embryonal carcinoma and es cells . mesv was derived from a retroviral mutant [ pcc4-cell-passaged myeloproliferative sarcoma virus ( pcmv ) ] expressed in embryonal carcinoma cells but not in es cells . the enhancer region of pcmv was shown to be functional in both cell types , but sequences within the 5 ' untranslated region of pcmv were found to restrict viral expression in es cells . replacement of this region by related sequences obtained from the dl-587rev retrovirus results in mesv , a modified pcmv virus that confers g418 resistance to fibroblasts and es cells with similar efficiencies . expression of mesv in es cells is mediated by transcriptional regulatory elements within the 5 ' long terminal repeat of the viral genome . 
glucocorticoids locally disrupt an array of positioned nucleosomes on the rat tyrosine aminotransferase promoter in hepatoma cells . transcriptional activation by steroid hormones is often associated with the appearance of a dnase i hypersensitive site resulting from a local alteration of the nucleoprotein structure of the promoter . for the mouse mammary tumor virus long terminal repeat , a viral promoter under glucocorticoid control , a model has been proposed : the appearance of the hormonodependent dnase i hypersensitive site reflects the displacement of a single precisely positioned nucleosome associated with the glucocorticoid responsive elements . to determine if such a mechanism is of general relevance in transcriptional activation by steroid hormones , we have investigated the nucleosomal organization of the rat tyrosine aminotransferase promoter over a 1-kilobase region that contains the glucocorticoid regulatory target . this region displays a hormonodependent dnase i hypersensitive site . in the absence of hormone , micrococcal nuclease digestion of nuclei demonstrates the presence of positioned nucleosomes , with cutting sites centered around positions -3080 , -2900 , -2700 , -2800 , -2255 , and -2040 . treatment of the cells with dexamethasone induces a disruption of the chromatin structure over a relatively short stretch of dna ( approximately positions -2400 to -2650 ) that overlaps two nucleosomes . these observations suggest a strong similarity in the role of chromatin structure in glucocorticoid-dependent transcriptional activation of mouse mammary tumor virus and tyrosine aminotransferase promoters . 
mapping chromosome band 11q23 in human acute leukemia with biotinylated probes : identification of 11q23 translocation breakpoints with a yeast artificial chromosome . translocations involving chromosome 11 , band q23 , are frequent recurring abnormalities in human acute lymphoblastic and acute myeloid leukemia . we used 19 biotin-labeled probes derived from genes and anonymous cosmids for hybridization to metaphase chromosomes from leukemia cells that contained four translocations involving band 11q23 : t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) , t ( 6 ; 11 ) ( q27 ; q23 ) , t ( 9 ; 11 ) ( p22 ; q23 ) , and t ( 11 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) . the location of the cosmid probes relative to the breakpoint in 11q23 was the same in all translocations . of the cosmid clones containing known genes , cd3d was proximal and pbgd , thy1 , srpr , and ets1 were distal to the breakpoint on 11q23 . hybridization of genomic dna from a yeast clone containing yeast artificial chromosomes ( yacs ) , that carry 320 kilobases ( kb ) of human dna including cd3d and cd3g genes , showed that the yacs were split in all four translocations . these results indicate that the breakpoint at 11q23 in each of these translocations occurs within the 320 kb encompassed by these yacs ; whether the breakpoint within the yacs is precisely the same in the different translocations is presently unknown . 
vaccination against tumor cells expressing breast cancer epithelial tumor antigen . ninety-one percent of breast tumors aberrantly express an epithelial tumor antigen ( eta ) identified by monoclonal antibody h23 . vaccinia virus recombinants expressing tumor antigens have considerable promise in the active immunotherapy of cancer , and we have evaluated the potential of vaccinia recombinants expressing the secreted ( s ) and cell-associated ( transmembrane , t ) forms of h23 eta to elicit immunity to tumor cells expressing eta . tumorigenic ras-transformed fischer rat fibroblast lines fr-s and fr-t , expressing the s or t form of h23 eta , respectively , were constructed for use in challenge experiments . expression of h23 eta in these lines was confirmed by western blotting and immunofluorescence . when challenged by subcutaneous seeding of tumor cells , 97 % ( fr-s ) and 91 % ( fr-t ) of syngeneic fischer rats rapidly developed tumors that failed to regress . vaccination with recombinant vaccinia virus expressing eta-t prior to challenge prevented tumor development in 82 % of animals seeded with fr-t cells but in only 61 % of animals seeded with fr-s . the vaccinia recombinant expressing the s form was a less effective immunogen , and vaccination protected only 29-30 % of animals from developing tumors upon challenge with either fr-s or - t cells . the increased immunogenicity of the recombinant expressing eta-t was reflected in elevated levels of eta-reactive antibody in vaccinated animals , confirming that secreted antigens expressed from vaccinia virus are less effective immunogens than their membrane-associated counterparts . 
recognition by elam-1 of the sialyl-lex determinant on myeloid and tumor cells . endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 ( elam-1 ) is an endothelial cell adhesion molecule that allows myeloid cells to attach to the walls of blood vessels adjacent to sites of inflammation . elam-1 recognizes the sialyl-lewis x ( sialyl-lex ) determinant , neuac alpha 2-3gal beta 1-4 ( fuc alpha 1-3 ) glcnac - , a granulocyte carbohydrate also found on the surface of some tumor cell lines . binding of myeloid cells to soluble elam-1 is inhibited by a monoclonal antibody recognizing sialyl-lex or by proteins bearing sialyl-lex , some of which may participate in humoral regulation of myeloid cell adhesion . stimulated granulocytes also release an inhibitor of elam-1 binding that can be selectively adsorbed by monoclonal antibody to sialyl-lex . 
head and neck paragangliomas : a clinicopathologic study with dna flow cytometric analysis . a total of 11 head and neck paragangliomas were the subject of pathologic study , including histologic , immunohistochemical , and dna flow cytometric analyses . we can not absolutely predict aggressive clinical behavior using histologic parameters alone , but we can use such parameters to segregate patients into low-risk and high-risk groups . several trends were observed in the current study . tumors with higher s-phase fractions , g2/m fractions , or aneuploid cell populations tended to behave " aggressively . " the presence of sustentacular cells in the primary tumors can not be used as an absolute indicator of tumor metastatic potential , as two metastatic paragangliomas in this study contained sustentacular cells in both the primary and metastatic lesions . dna ploidy status can not be used as an absolute prognostic parameter as the two metastatic tumors were composed of diploid primary and metastatic lesions . the three tumors with aneuploid cell populations showed " aggressive " histologic and clinical features , but the length of the follow-up period for these cases is too limited to draw any conclusions . although no absolute criteria can be used at present to gauge aggressiveness , close follow-up of these patients is essential , especially if pathologic findings suggest an " aggressive " course ( ie , " malignant " histology , higher s-phase fractions , g2/m fractions , aneuploid cell populations , or decreased sustentacular cell density ) . 
breast cancer : the military 's experience at wilford hall usaf medical center . we reviewed the experience with breast cancer at wilford hall usaf medical center for the years 1978 through 1988 . a total of 868 cases were identified in the wilford hall tumor registry ; overall 5-year and 10-year survivals were 63 % and 39 % , respectively . infiltrating ductal carcinoma represented the principal histologic category . the other predominant variants included invasive lobular carcinoma , lobular carcinoma in situ , and ductal carcinoma in situ . until recently , most of these patients ( 90 % ) had modified radical mastectomy as their definitive surgical therapy , with chemotherapy reserved primarily for patients with advanced disease . 
pheochromocytoma and acute myocardial infarction . when a pheochromocytoma is manifested as an acute myocardial illness , diagnosis may be difficult to make . if the tumor is suspected early enough , a workup can be done while the complications of the myocardial illness are being controlled ( as in our case ) . the tumor can then be expeditiously removed before any further problems develop . the case presented here underscores the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for a pheochromocytoma in any patient who has an unexpected myocardial event . 
endometriosis of the abdominal wall . endometriosis of the abdominal wall typically occurs as a painful mass in a lower abdominal incision from previous cesarean section or hysterectomy . most patients are young and in their active reproductive years . the histologic diagnosis requires a combination of either endometrial-like glands , endometrial stroma , or hemosiderin pigment . the diagnosis must be considered in any woman with an abdominal wall mass and a history of transabdominal gynecologic surgery . wide excision offers the best chance to prevent recurrence . 
unilateral hydrocephalus in adults . the authors report 14 cases of unilateral hydrocephalus in adults . headache was the most common presenting symptom . unilateral hydrocephalus was documented in each patient with computed tomography scans ; magnetic resonance imaging was also used in seven patients in the latter part of the series . unilateral hydrocephalus was caused by tumor ( seven patients ) , venous angioma ( one patient ) , ependymal cyst ( one patient ) , postinflammatory gliosis ( one patient ) , and was idiopathic in four patients . the primary surgical treatment was craniotomy with fenestration of the septum pellucidum , which relieved symptoms in eight of nine patients for whom long-term follow-up data were available . 
pedunculated giant lipoma of the esophagus . a patient with a giant lipoma of the esophagus presented with progressive dysphagia and odynophagia , fever , and recurrent melena . two years previously , when the symptoms were less pronounced , it had been misdiagnosed as achalasia . after surgical removal of the lipoma , the patient became symptom free . 
peritoneal mesothelioma : an unusual cause of esophageal achalasia . secondary esophageal achalasia due to malignancy is a rare condition ; only 53 such cases have been reported to date . sixty-two percent of the cases were due to gastric adenocarcinoma . mesothelioma of the peritoneum is an uncommon neoplasm . the usual presenting symptoms are abdominal pain , abdominal mass , or abdominal distention . the patient we are reporting had peritoneal mesothelioma which presented with dysphagia and weight loss , in addition to the radiological and manometric picture of achalasia . secondary achalasia was suspected clinically , and was confirmed by computed tomography and laparotomy . the diagnosis of peritoneal mesothelioma was made only by histopathological examination . we are not aware of any other report documenting the association of peritoneal mesothelioma and achalasia . 
multifocal gastric carcinoma arising from hyperplastic and adenomatous polyps . this paper is a presentation of the unusual case of a 61-yr-old woman operated on for multiple gastric cancers . two of the cancers were found in the hyperplastic polyps and one in the adenoma . apart from cancers that arose from these polyps , there were four separate polypoid or flat gastric carcinomas and three other hyperplastic polyps with no signs of malignancy , in this case . the presentation is followed by a detailed discussion focusing on the possible development of carcinoma in gastric hyperplastic polyps in view of the data from the literature . 
synchronous diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma and gastric adenocarcinoma presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia . diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma ( d-wdll ) and chronic lymphocytic lymphoma ( cll ) represent closely related neoplasms which may have indolent courses . dating back more than one century , reports of associated second primary malignancies continue to intrigue clinicians . a case of synchronous d-wdll and gastric adenocarcinoma , presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia , is presented . the case and literature are reviewed . 
primary leiomyoma of the liver . a 30-yr-old woman with right upper quadrant abdominal pain was found to have a hepatic leiomyoma . this is the youngest patient in whom this rare tumor has been found . the diagnostic approach toward gastrointestinal leiomyomata is emphasized , including the role of immunohistochemistry . 
liver abscess complicating intratumoral ethanol injection therapy for hcc . we report a patient who developed multiple liver abscesses and sepsis caused by lactobacilli after the percutaneous intratumoral injection of ethanol for hepatocellular carcinoma . we diagnosed the liver abscess at an early stage because of a the finding of gas on ultrasound and computed tomography . blood cultures grew gram-positive rods , which were of the lactobacillus species . the patient responded to the administration of antibiotics , and his hepatic tumors have not recurred in the 7 months since treatment . this is the first report of liver abscess following percutaneous ethanol injection therapy . 
failure to limit quantities of benzodiazepine hypnotic drugs for outpatients : placing the elderly at risk . purpose : the long-term use of benzodiazepine hypnotics by the elderly is associated with serious side effects , and prescriptions of large quantities of these agents allow such use . therefore , we determined the quantities of these agents prescribed to outpatients in our veterans administration teaching hospital , and the relationship of patient age to total number of doses prescribed per prescription . patients and methods : pharmacy and patient records related to 655 consecutive prescriptions for triazolam ( halcion ) and flurazepam ( dalmane ) were reviewed . only 266 ( 41 % ) of the prescriptions were for 30 or fewer doses , while 178 ( 27 % ) were written for 180 or more doses . results : thirty-six percent of prescriptions for patients aged 65 years or older were for 180 or more doses , compared with 24 % for those aged 45 to 64 years old , and 16 % of the prescriptions for patients less than 45 years old ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in a multivariate analysis controlling for six other factors related to the total number of doses prescribed , patients aged 65 years or older were still more likely to receive a prescription for 180 or more doses ( relative risk 1.9 , 95 % confidence interval 1.3 , 2.8 ) . conclusion : we conclude that inappropriately large quantities of benzodiazepine hypnotics were commonly prescribed , and that patients aged 65 years or older were at greatest risk for receiving such prescriptions . 
lack of correlation of clinical breast examination with high-risk histopathology . purpose : routine breast examination frequently finds differences in palpable density and palpable nodularity , but it is not known if these differences correlate with the presence of high-risk histopathology . patients and methods : to test for a relationship between clinical breast examination and histopathology , we devised separate , 4-point scales of clinical density and nodularity and validated these scales by repeat examinations 4 or more months apart in 199 separate breasts ( the scale was the same or within 1 point on repeat examination 87 % of the time for density and 90 % for nodularity ) . we then used these two clinical scales to compare density and nodularity to histopathology of breast tissue at the margins of segmental resections in 60 women undergoing breast-conserving treatment of primary breast cancer . in cases such as these , a large sample of " normal " tissue is intentionally removed when the wide excision is done to obtain negative margins . histopathology at the margins was graded according to the consensus panel of the american college of pathology ; as might be expected in women with previous cancer , some higher-risk histopathology was found in 37 % of cases . a relationship was sought using spearman 's rank correlation coefficient . results : neither clinical breast density ( rho = 0.16 ) nor clinical breast nodularity ( rho = 0.01 ) related to the presence of high-risk histopathology in the underlying tissue . interestingly , breast nodularity increased with age ( rho = 0.28 ) , and clinical density and nodularity were inversely related ( rho = -0.28 ) . conclusion : we conclude that neither clinical breast density nor nodularity correlates with histopathology and that it is unlikely that a larger study would find a clinically useful correlation . therefore , a clinical examination should not be used to decide that high-risk histopathology is likely to be present in an individual woman 's breast . 
role of systemic therapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer . increasing evidence supports the investigation of chemotherapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) . randomized studies in patients with stage iv disease have shown increased survival in chemotherapy-treated patients compared to best supportive care and indicate the ability of chemotherapy to alter the natural history of this disease . randomized studies involving adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherapy have also shown encouraging results . these studies and results of recent pilot studies utilizing neoadjuvant chemotherapy and concomitant chemoradiotherapy indicate a potential benefit from the use of chemotherapy in patients with nsclc and call for its continued intensive investigation in clinical trials . 
the role of attitudes , beliefs , and personal characteristics of italian physicians in the surgical treatment of early breast cancer . the influence of italian physicians ' attitudes , beliefs , and personal characteristics on medical decision making is examined in the case of surgical treatment of early breast cancer . responses to a mail survey of 657 physicians from different specialties were analyzed comparing doctors recommending a radical procedure ( 9 % ) to those preferring a conservative procedure for younger patients only ( 25 % ) , and those considering conservative surgery the treatment of choice regardless of patients ' age ( 66 % ) . the findings suggest that the likelihood of physicians ' preferring a conservative procedure is influenced by their specialty and the extent to which they feel that a patient should have a role in the treatment decision more than by differences in the beliefs of treatment outcomes . only preferences of the small group indicating radical surgery as the sole admissible treatment can be accounted for by ignorance or distrust of results of recent trials . these findings suggest that other than scientific factors guide many doctors in their decision making ; they may help to explain why the diffusion of research results into clinical practice is often disappointingly slow . 
characteristics of duodenal wall gastrinomas . fifteen patients with duodenal wall gastrinomas ( dwgs ) and the zollinger-ellison syndrome have been treated since 1960 . in 6 of 11 patients , dwgs were recognized at operation and totally excised . in four patients , the tumor was subsequently found in the proximal duodenum of the surgical specimens . in 12 patients , dwgs were single and lymph node metastases were present in 8 . in three patients , dwgs were multiple and lymph node metastases were present in two . all dwgs were submucosal and all were located in the first or second portions of the duodenum except one found in the fourth portion . tumor size ranged from 1 to 15 mm , and nine were less than 5 mm . of 12 patients with single dwgs , 9 have remained eugastrinemic after resection ( mean follow-up : 5.5 years ) . none of the patients with multiple dwgs became eugastrinemic after surgery . dwgs are characteristically single , small or microscopic , submucosal , located in the proximal duodenum , rarely metastasize to the liver , and are usually curable by surgical resection . 
glucagonoma syndrome is an underdiagnosed clinical entity . glucagonomas , considered among the rarest of the islet cell neoplasms , produce a well-defined clinical syndrome characterized by necrolytic migratory erythema , diabetes mellitus , glossitis , anemia , and weight loss . this report describes seven patients with glucagonoma treated at our institution . all seven had the characteristic dermatologic manifestations , present from 1 to 6 years prior to diagnosis . five patients had extensive disease at the time of initial operation , three of whom underwent aggressive cytoreductive surgery , whereas the other two had biopsy only . the remaining two patients presented with a single nodule each , underwent distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy , and remain free of disease 2 and 6 years postoperatively . earlier recognition of the distinctive physical findings peculiar to this syndrome should increase survival . aggressive cytoreductive surgery results in prolonged remission . 
perioperative blood transfusion adversely affects prognosis of patients with stage i non-small-cell lung cancer . it has been speculated that blood transfusion might adversely affect prognosis in cancer patients by immunosuppression . to avoid the confounding affect of advanced disease , we tested this hypothesis in 117 patients with stage i non-small-cell lung cancer . mean and median follow-up were 49.7 months and 47 months , respectively . patients who died during the postoperative period were not included . perioperative transfusion was defined as administration of whole blood or packed cells within 30 days of operation . the overall cumulative 5-year disease-free survival rate was 67 % . in patients with transfusion , it was 53 % and in patients without transfusion it was 81 % ( p = 0.0055 ) . a multivariate analysis was performed that included patient age , race , sex , cell type , extent of operation ( pneumonectomy versus lobectomy/segmentectomy ) , operative blood loss , admission hematocrit , discharge hematocrit , and the presence or absence of perioperative transfusion . the only variable that significantly correlated with 5-year disease-free survival was the presence or absence of perioperative transfusion ( p = 0.0278 ) , and this effect was not related to the number of transfusions . retrospective analysis of long-term results of patients surviving curative operation for stage i lung cancer shows that any perioperative transfusion significantly worsens the patient 's prognosis and suggests very strongly that this association is due to an adverse effect of the transfusion rather than the transfusion serving as a marker for another risk factor . 
continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs for filling and lining the post-exenteration pelvis . pelvic exenteration has a high complication rate due , in large part , to the extensive raw surfaces and dead space it creates . numerous techniques have been used to control this space and line these surfaces , but none , to date , has proven to be a reliable solution . we investigated the use of continent ileocolonic urinary reservoirs as a new " flap " to fill and line the pelvis in 17 patients , and found that our historical complication rate of 44 % for pelvic exenteration was reduced to 18 % . these reservoirs appear to be an improved method of managing the post-exenteration pelvis . 
selective nonoperative management of patients referred with abnormal mammograms . screening mammography provides a means of detecting clinically occult breast carcinoma , but the question of whether all abnormal mammograms require biopsy remains unanswered . we retrospectively reviewed records of 214 women referred over an 8-year period for abnormal mammograms . they were selectively assigned to biopsy or mammographic follow-up based on specific mammographic criteria . of 114 women initially observed mammographically , 2 were later found by biopsy to have carcinoma . initial assignment to mammographic observation delayed the recommendation for biopsy 3 and 12 months , respectively , in these patients , but no effect on outcome was documented . because they have benign lesions by clinical and mammographic criteria , 102 women ( 53 % ) have been spared biopsy ; they continue to be monitored closely . we believe these data support the use of a selective approach to biopsy based on specific mammographic criteria . 
when is polypectomy sufficient treatment for colorectal cancer in a polyp ? eighty-seven patients with a carcinoma in a polyp were reviewed over a 12-year period . ten histologic criteria were analyzed for an association with the presence of residual carcinoma . four factors were identified as having prognostic value : size greater than 1.5 cm , sessility , cancer of at least 50 % of the adenoma volume , and invasive carcinoma . polypectomy alone is adequate treatment unless the carcinoma invades deeper to the muscularis mucosa and is associated with one or more of these characteristics . 
multimodal therapy in locally advanced breast carcinoma . among 879 patients treated for breast cancer between 1975 and 1984 , advanced disease was found in 125 ( 14 % ) . a subgroup of 34 ( 4 % ) presented with untreated locally advanced disease without demonstrable distant metastases at the time of diagnosis ( stage iiib = t4abed , nx-2 , mo ) . during the first 5 years ( 1975 through 1979 ) , 17 patients were treated primarily with sequential radiotherapy and chemotherapy ( group a ) . from 1980 to 1984 ( group b ) , the management consisted of four courses of induction multi-drug chemotherapy followed primarily by mastectomy and additional chemotherapy . the mean follow-up for the most recent group ( group b ) is 48 months . follow-up was complete . while the local disease control rate was the same for both groups ( 76 % ) , the survival was remarkably different . group a patients experienced a median survival of 15 months , and only one survived 5 years . in group b , the median survival was 56 months with nine patients ( 53 % ) alive between 40 and 76 months , seven ( 41 % ) of whom are 5-year survivors . while the overall mortality of patients with inflammatory breast cancer was greater in both groups when compared with the group with noninflammatory disease , the survival of patients in group b was better than in group a for both inflammatory and noninflammatory cancers ( p less than 0.01 ) . estrogen receptor , nodal , and menopausal status did not influence survival . these data suggest that neoadjuvant chemotherapy improves survival for patients with stage iiib breast carcinoma and delays the establishment or progression of distant metastases . mastectomy is an important component in the treatment of this disease . 
outpatient percutaneous central venous access in cancer patients . a 1-year experience of percutaneous subclavian catheterization in outpatients with cancer was reviewed to document reliability , safety , and cost . there were 763 catheter insertions attempted with prospective documentation of complications in 664 consecutive patients . catheter insertion was successful in 722 attempts ( 95 % ) . there were only 13 pneumothoraces ( 2 % ) . thirty catheters required repositioning ( 4 % ) . the average catheter duration was 191 days ( range : 0 to 892 days ) . fifty-six catheters ( 8 % ) were removed because of suspected infection . documented catheter sepsis occurred in 21 patients ( 3 % ) ; catheter site infection occurred in 8 patients ( 1 % ) . thus , only 0.22 infections per catheter year occurred during this 382 catheter-year experience . the estimated cost of catheter insertion was $ 562 , which is one-third the estimated cost for tunneled catheters ( $ 1,403 ) and for reservoir devices ( $ 1,738 ) . in our experience , percutaneous subclavian catheterization is a reliable , cost-effective method compared with tunneled or reservoir devices , with an equivalent incidence of catheter-related infections . the cornerstone of our success with this program is a staff dedicated to catheter care and intensive patient education . in centers where a large number of patients require central venous access , percutaneous catheterization should be the technique of choice . 
kaposi 's sarcoma of the rectum in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we retrospectively reviewed eight patients with biopsy-proven anorectal kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) treated between 1984 and 1989 at san francisco general hospital . all patients were homosexual men with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . the average age was 34 years . three patients had primary rectal ks without metastases . five patients had disseminated ks with lesions throughout the alimentary tract , viscera , skin , or local lymph nodes . three patients were treated with radiation or chemotherapy . five patients had disseminated ks with lesions throughout the alimentary tract , viscera , skin , or local lymph nodes . three patients were treated with radiation or chemotherapy . five patients with advanced aids received no specific treatment for anorectal ks . follow-up ranged from 1 month to 5 years . three of the untreated patients and the three patients treated with chemotherapy or radiotherapy were alive 1 month to 5 years after diagnosis . aggressive surgical treatment of anorectal ks is not indicated . 
caesarean section in a patient with haemoglobin sc disease and a phaeochromocytoma . the anaesthetic management of a patient with haemoglobin sc disease for lower segment caesarean section and excision of a phaeochromocytoma is described . the patient was given a general anaesthetic for the surgical procedure after exchange transfusion had achieved an haemoglobin a concentration of greater than 50 % . a live infant was delivered and a suprarenal phaeochromocytoma was excised during a 6.5 hour procedure . the patient 's postoperative recovery was uneventful . 
tyrosine kinase and control of cell proliferation . the usefulness of phosphotyrosine antibodies for the detection of physiologically regulated or deregulated tyrosine kinases is discussed in this report . this rather rare enzymatic activity is shared by receptors for some polypeptide growth factors and by the products of class 1 oncogenes . the antibodies are able to detect proteins phosphorylated on tyrosine in fibroblasts stimulated with growth factors such as egf and pdgf . the major phosphorylated protein species are the receptors themselves , which undergo phosphorylation only after the addition of the exogenous factor and only transiently . phosphotyrosine antibodies were able to detect the products of the retroviral class 1 oncogenes , which are endowed with deregulated tyrosine kinase activity . in fact , in these cases a constitutive phosphorylation of the relevant proteins was observed , which occurred continuously and independently of the presence or lack of exogenous ligands . a tyrosine kinase constitutively activated in human gastric carcinoma cells was detected by p-tyr antibodies . this molecule has been characterized at the molecular level , and the mechanisms responsible for its enzymatic activation have been investigated . the question of whether the tyrosine kinase identified is responsible for the induction and the maintenance of the transformed phenotype in gastric carcinomas remains to be answered . it is reasonable to suggest that this might be the case by analogy with other situations such as class 1 oncogenes activated by transduction by retroviruses , abnormal expression of egf receptors , or deregulated activity of c-abl-encoded proteins in chronic myelogenous leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia . thus , the search for deregulated kinases by means of phosphotyrosine antibodies seems to be useful for identifying new activated oncogenes in clinical oncology . 
gene amplification in human lung cancer . the myc family genes and other proto-oncogenes and growth factor genes . the development of human lung cancer may require multiple genetic deletions affecting a number of chromosomes , e.g. , 1 , 3 , 11 , 13 , and 17 . these genetic aberrations may induce the activation of proto-oncogenes ( c-jun , ras , c-raf1 ) and the loss of tumor suppressor genes ( p53 ) . some of the activated proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes are more selectively expressed or absent in small-cell lung cancer ( l-myc , c-myb , c-scr , rb gene ) or non-small-cell lung cancer ( c-erbb-2 , c-sis , c-fes ) . these genes may thus be of importance for selection of differentiation pathway . the c-myc oncogene is frequently amplified in small-cell lung cancer cell lines in a much higher frequency than in vivo . this indicates that c-myc seems to be related to tumor progression and a relatively late event in the lung cancer development . the uncontrolled production of multiple growth factors has been identified in human lung cancer cell lines . these factors can promote and inhibit the proliferation via paracrine and autocrine loops via specific receptors . the products from some of the activated proto-oncogenes ( c-sis , c-erbb-2 ) are sequences homologous to a certain growth factor ( pdgf ) and a receptor ( egf ) identified in lung cancer . the production and action of these growth factors may be of major importance for further activation of proto-oncogenes via intracellular signal transduction and specific oncogenic activation leading to further tumor progression . 
the ras oncogenes in human lung cancer . the three well-characterized genes of the ras gene family h-ras , k-ras , and n-ras , code for closely related 21-kd proteins that have a role in the transduction of growth signals . the ras proteins acquire transforming potential when a point mutation in the gene leads to replacement of an amino acid in one of the critical positions 12 , 13 , or 61 . overexpression of the normal protein , usually associated with gene amplification , can have similar effects . the detection of mutationally activated ras genes has been facilitated by the development of oligonucleotide hybridization assays that allow the identification of each possible mutation at the critical sites . employment of the polymerase chain reaction has greatly increased the sensitivity of these assays . studies of human lung cancer have shown that adenocarcinoma is the only subtype associated with ras mutations . these occur in about 30 % of primary tumors . in almost all cases , the mutation is present in codon 12 of the k-ras gene . no mutations have been observed to date in tumors of nonsmokers , suggesting that the mutation may result from exposure to carcinogenic ingredients of tobacco smoke . amplifications of ras genes were shown to be very uncommon in clinically early stages of lung cancer . analysis of the clinical data of patients who were operated on for adenocarcinoma of the lung shows that k-ras mutations are not associated with particular histologic characteristics of the tumors or with specific presenting features . patients with k-ras mutations , however , had significantly worse survival than did those without an activation . 
progression through the cell cycle : an overview . tissues in adults can be maintained at constant mass or they can increase or decrease in size because of imbalances of synthetic and degradative processes acting at the cellular and molecular levels . some size changes are caused by physiologic conditions to which the tissue must adjust . alternatively , the balance may be distorted in favor of net tissue increase in pathologic situations such as cancer . strict regulatory mechanisms are required to keep proliferation responsive to the organism 's needs ; these mechanisms may be defective in disease . net tissue proliferation requires repeated rounds of cell duplication in excess of that necessary to counterbalance cell death . duplication of a cell requires a net doubling of its every molecule and structure . the myriad of molecular events required for cell proliferation such as dna duplication and its partitioning at mitosis are tightly regulated in normal cells . one may conceive of two classes of molecules : those required for " housekeeping , " which constitute the cell 's structural and functional machinery , and those such as growth factors , their receptors , and second messengers involved in signal transduction responsible for regulating the activities of the housekeeping molecules . these molecular events and the cascade of processes that control them can be organized within the sequence of the cell cycle . in this brief overview , we illustrate these issues with a few examples taken from very recent discoveries of novel proteins that appear to have major regulatory roles . most of these results have been obtained with mammalian fibroblasts , but some have originated with discoveries made using two very different yeasts . 
the beta-type transforming growth factor . mediators of cell regulation in the lung . an increased interest in the role of growth factors in the regulation of processes concerning normal and pathologic lung physiology has spurred a flurry of research in this area . peptide growth factors are known to control not only cell proliferation but other events such as differentiation , chemotaxis , and matrix deposition as well . the transforming growth factor beta ( tgf beta ) family of regulatory peptides serves as a prime example to illustrate the multiplicity of effects elicited by peptide growth factors in various lung-derived cell types . at present , the tgf beta family consists of at least 17 proteins and , based on sequence analysis , they can be divided into two groups : a cluster that shows very high sequence similarity to tgf beta 1 , the closely related group , and a cluster that shows weaker sequence similarity to tgf beta 1 , the distantly related group . the purpose of this brief review is to summarize the salient features of tgf beta structure and regulatory abilities of the closely related group . in addition , we will outline the evidence suggesting a role for tgf beta in normal lung development and physiology . emphasis will be placed on studies with the closely related members tgf beta 1 and tgf beta 2 because , until recently , purified protein was available only for these two proteins . 
genetic strategies of tumor suppression . the evaluation of the cancer cell is a complex multigene process . tumor suppressor genes that are lost or inactivated , as well as genes that are overexpressed , play key roles in tumor progression . the identification of overexpressed genes has been expedited by the presence of transforming genes in some animal retroviruses . however , tumor suppressor genes have been difficult to identify and isolate because of their loss or inactivation during tumorigenesis . by a variety of methods , summarized in this review , a few tumor suppressors have been cloned and characterized , and many more have been recognized indirectly . the general finding at this time is that the same tumor suppressors ( and oncogenes ) are found associated with many different tumors , that several different altered genes are found typically in the same tumors , and that other oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes seem to be characteristically altered in particular tumor types as well . functions of tumor suppressor genes include the control of normal cell activities such as proliferation and differentiation as well as senescence , which is a special kind of differentiation in which cells lose their ability to divide . the genetic basis of senescence and identification of genes involved in overcoming senescence , leading to immortalization ( i.e. , indefinite growth potential ) , are important areas of current investigation . our laboratory is engaged in senescence/immortalization studies as a result of our discovery that normal human mammary epithelial cells can be immortalized by dna of the human papilloma virus . these new studies are summarized here . 
cell-to-cell communication and the control of growth . growth of transformed cells is inhibited by cell-to-cell communication with normal cells . this communication is regulated by certain oncogenes that alone or in cooperation can block the communication . 
src expression in small-cell lung carcinoma and other neuroendocrine malignancies . the proto-oncogene c-src codes for two tyrosine kinases , pp60c-src and pp60c-srcn . the latter protein appears to be exclusively expressed in neurons and neuronally differentiated tumors . in cell lines derived from neuroblastoma and small-cell lung carcinoma , src expression correlates positively with neuroendocrine differentiation . however , pp60c-srcn is expressed only in highly differentiated neuroblastomas . although c-src expression in neuroendocrine tumors probably reflects and is the result of the differentiation stage at which the tumors have been arrested , high c-src expression and kinase activities in non-neuroectodermal tumors , e.g. , colon carcinoma , breast carcinoma , might instead be a part of the malignant phenotype and contribute to the development of these tumors . 
internists ' practices in health promotion and disease prevention . a survey . objective : to estimate internists ' use of disease prevention and health promotion activities , and to explore demographic , professional , behavioral , psychological , cognitive , and organizational factors associated with the use of such practices . design : mail survey . setting and subjects : a sample of 2610 members and fellows of the american college of physicians ( acp ) participated in the study . they engaged in patient care activities more than 20 hours per week and were stratified by gender and region . they lived in four geographic areas of the united states ( northeast , southeast , central , and west ) , comprising 21 acp regions . measurements : a questionnaire requesting background information as well as information about personal health ; record keeping ; use of immunizations ( pneumococcal , influenza , tetanus , hepatitis b ) ; use of screening tests and procedures for detecting cancer ( breast examination , papanicolaou smear , stool occult blood test ) and other diseases ( electrocardiograms , cholesterol level tests , chest radiographs ) ; and behavioral counseling to promote health ( in the areas of smoking , exercise , and alcohol and seat belt use ) . main results : internists used effective preventive interventions less frequently and ineffective practices more frequently than experts recommend . internists ' use of health promotion and disease prevention activities is associated with habit , attitude , and a lack of adequate knowledge . younger physician age , general internal medicine practice , and personal health promotion and disease prevention practices were strongly associated with more appropriate use of recommended practices ( p less than 0.01 ) . conclusions : internists ' use of disease prevention and health promotion activities falls short of expert recommendations . programs to improve the delivery of preventive services might be aimed at improving physicians ' personal health practices , might be directed toward patients , and might include the development of effective systems to remind physicians . 
cerebrospinal fluid neopterin in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection . we evaluated cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) concentrations of neopterin , a putative marker of activated macrophages , in 97 subjects infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 who had a spectrum of neurological complications . the highest csf neopterin concentrations occurred in those with neurological opportunistic infections , primary central nervous systems lymphoma , and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) dementia complex . in general , the csf concentration of neopterin was independent of csf cell count and blood-brain barrier disruption to albumin . in the patients with aids dementia complex , csf neopterin concentrations correlated with severity of disease and decreased in conjunction with clinical improvement following treatment with zidovudine . these results suggest that csf neopterin , although not disease-specific , may be useful as a surrogate marker for the presence of aids dementia complex and its response to antiviral therapy . 
lymphoproliferative disorders associated with carbamazepine . carbamazepine-induced lymphoproliferative disorders are relatively rare . a 32-year-old woman developed cervical lymphadenopathy while taking carbamazepine . histologic evaluation of the lymph node biopsy specimen demonstrated near-total effacement of the nodal architecture by a population of pleomorphic immunoblasts . the predominant cell population expressed cd3 , cd2 , cd5 , and cd4 , while results of testing for cd8 were negative . on the basis of the morphologic and immunohistologic features , a diagnosis of high-grade , non-hodgkin 's lymphoma , t-cell immunoblastic type , was made . despite the fact that aggressive behavior is usually associated with immunoblastic lymphomas , the patient has done well for 33 months after cessation of carbamazepine in the absence of chemotherapeutic treatment . the clinical features of this patient 's illness , therefore , suggest that it is best regarded as a so-called pseudolymphoma . 
image cytophotometric dna analysis of atypical hyperplasias and intraductal carcinomas of the breast . with the use of image analysis , dna content was quantified on paraffin-embedded tissue sections of 25 atypical hyperplasias and 35 intraductal carcinomas of the breast by comparison of integrated gray levels of feulgen-stained control and ductal cell nuclei . the mean full-peak ( g0/g1 ) control cell dna histogram coefficient of variation was 5.5 % . dna aneuploidy was more common in intraductal carcinomas compared with atypical hyperplasias ( 71 % of intraductal carcinomas vs 36 % of atypical hyperplasias ) and correlated with a lack of cytologic ( nuclear ) and architectural differentiation ( 63 % moderate vs 93 % poor and 38 % cribriform vs 82 % solid ) . in addition , multiple dna stemlines were observed in 40 % of intraductal carcinomas . we conclude that ( 1 ) some atypical hyperplasias demonstrate abnormal dna content consistent with neoplastic transformation , ( 2 ) aggressive forms of intraductal carcinoma are more frequently associated with dna content abnormalities , and ( 3 ) frequent dna stemline heterogeneity in intraductal carcinoma supports the hypothesis that multiple genetic events occur in the development of mammary intraepithelial neoplasia . 
enhanced expression of c-myc and h-ras oncogenes in letterer-siwe disease . a sequential study using colorimetric in situ hybridization . tissues from two patients with disseminated histiocytosis x ( letterer-siwe disease ) in which histiocytosis x cells exhibited histologic and cytologic features of malignancy were evaluated by in situ hybridization with the use of biotinylated nucleic acid probes to c-myc and h-ras oncogenes . enhanced expression of these oncogenes was observed in mononucleated and multinucleated cells of histiocytosis x in the terminal proliferative phase but not in the early quiescent phase of letterer-siwe disease in both patients . our findings indicate that deregulation of c-myc and h-ras in histiocytosis x are late events that likely confer a selective growth advantage to histiocytosis x cells . 
lack of prognostic value of nucleolar organizer region enumeration in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . enumeration of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions is of limited use in grading transitional cell tumors of the bladder . we attempted in this article to establish whether or not such a technique would be helpful in predicting the prognosis of such tumors within rather than between grades . in the study population of 11 high-grade transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder , no correlation was found between clinical outcome and mean nucleolar organizer region count . 
bilateral familial carotid body paragangliomas . report of a case with dna flow cytometric and cytogenetic analyses . a case study of bilateral familial carotid body paragangliomas with dna flow cytometric and cytogenetic analyses is presented . analysis of tumor cell nuclear dna content by flow cytometry revealed aneuploid cell populations in both tumors . standard cytogenetic analysis ( giemsa-banding technique used ) of the right carotid body paraganglioma showed no evidence of numerical or structural abnormalities . we describe parameters currently used to " predict " biological behavior in these tumors . 
hepatic cyst associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome . a solitary hepatic cyst , associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome , is described . to our knowledge , this association has not been previously reported . a developmental anomaly or hamartomatous nature of this lesion is suggested . knowledge of this association may be helpful in the clinical diagnosis of this benign entity . 
soft-tissue tumor with abnormal amianthoid collagen fibers . electron microscopic examination of a solitary soft-tissue tumor from the face demonstrated large areas with abnormal amianthoid collagen fibers in the neoplasm . the lesion was classified as a benign neoplasm of myofibroblasts and tentatively named a myofibroblastoma . the significance of the amianthoid collagen fibers is unknown . normal native collagen fibers were found in some parts of the neoplasm . 
extramedullary hematopoiesis in a bronchial carcinoid tumor . an unusual complication of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia . a case of bronchial carcinoid tumor with foci of extramedullary hematopoiesis is presented . the patient had a 6-year history of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia and hepatosplenomegaly . all three hematopoietic cell lines were represented in different areas of the bronchial tumor . to our knowledge , this is the first case of extramedullary hematopoiesis described in a bronchial carcinoid and only the fourth report of hematopoietic cells in a neoplasm of otherwise unrelated origin . the pathogenesis of this uncommon finding is discussed and the literature is reviewed . 
cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas . the rarity of cholangiocarcinoma occurring in von meyenburg complexes is well appreciated . we describe the case of a 35-year-old man found to have cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas of the liver . areas of ductal proliferation and atypia within the bile duct hamartomas suggest malignant transformation to cholangiocarcinoma . 
acquired childhood aphasia . outcome 1 year after onset . the effects of the variables age at onset , cause , severity and bilaterality of lesion , and type of aphasia on course and outcome were investigated in a group of 28 aphasic children . analysis of spontaneous speech and tests of auditory verbal comprehension were used to determine the presence of aphasia . the severity of the cerebral lesion was assessed using a rating scale for computed tomographic scans . most of the children had not recovered completely 1 year after onset . recovery was significantly different according to etiological categories . complete recovery was seen in the majority of traumatic cases . 
morphine-induced transactivation of hiv-1 ltr in human neuroblastoma cells . infection by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) is followed in many cases by a clinically quiescent or latent phase that appears to continue as long as host antiviral defense is intact . this has raised the possibility that certain host susceptibility factors ( i.e. , environmental cofactors ) might influence the progression of the disease . in this study we demonstrate that morphine can function to activate hiv/ltr-cat fusion gene ( hiv-long terminal repeat-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ) when transfected into undifferentiated human sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cells . the stimulatory effect of morphine is amplified in sh-sy5y cells that have been induced to differentiate first with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) and is much less in cells differentiated with retinoic acid ( ra ) . morphine does not appreciably activate hiv/ltr-cat expression in human molt-3 and other t cells . morphine activation of hiv/ltr-cat in the sh-sy5y cells is not reversible by naltrexone and appears to involve a fos/jun signaling system . our results suggest that narcotics such as morphine may lead to activation of latent hiv infection . this may be particularly important in tissues , such as brain , which can host latent hiv infection and which is uniquely damaged in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) as evidenced by neuronal degeneration and dementia . we also predict that these findings may have important implications for the pathogenesis of aids , particularly in opiate drug abusers . 
shear stress induces not only platelet aggregation but also platelet-tumor cell interaction . to investigate the interaction between platelets and tumor cells under well-defined flow conditions , the effect of tumor cells on platelet aggregation induced by shear stress was studied using a cone and plate viscometer adapted for measuring transmitted light intensity . aggregation was markedly enhanced by hmv-1 cells in a cell number-dependent fashion under shear stress of 12 dyne/cm2 . enhancement was not observed at a high shear stress of 108 dyne/cm2 . a monoclonal antibody against gpiib/iiia , 7e3 completely abolished enhancement of aggregation by hmv-1 . apyrase had similar inhibitory effects . scanning electronmicroscopy showed that direct contacts of platelets with hmv-1 cells could be demonstrated when platelet-platelet interaction was inhibited by 7e3 or apyrase . these results may indicate that , at a shear stress of 12 dyne/cm2 , direct contacts of platelets and hmv-1 cells may trigger enhancement of platelet aggregation . 
palliative treatment of bile duct tumoral compression by an endoprosthesis : clinical results . the palliative therapy of stenoses of the biliary tract is a difficult choice . because percutaneous or endoscopic drainage methods are fraught with complications , an endoprosthesis for surgical intubation of the biliary tract has been developed . thirty patients were treated by this method . after choledochotomy , the endoprosthesis is positioned surgically above the sphincter of oddi , thereby avoiding ascending cholangitis . twenty-nine patients ( 13 with gallbladder cancer , 11 with cholangiocarcinomas , 5 with metastases ) presented with neoplastic compression , and one patient had an early postoperative stricture with loss of substance after right hepatectomy for hepatic metastases . the operative mortality was 3.3 % ( one pulmonary complication ) . resolution of jaundice was obtained in all but two patients , and pruritus always resolved . the mean survival time for the patients with cholangiocarcinoma was 12.2 months and 6.33 months for those with gallbladder cancer . indices of satisfaction ( bismuth 's method ) were 71 % ( gallbladder cancer ) , 93.5 % ( hilar cholangiocarcinoma ) , and 92 % ( metastatic compressions ) . this new type of surgical endoprosthesis is an alternative in the palliative treatment of neoplastic hilar compression because it is well tolerated , has a low rate of operative mortality or morbidity , and affords an acceptable quality of life for the patients . 
basic studies on a new material for inducing antitumor immune cells . recently , adoptive immunotherapy for cancer with lymphokine activated killer ( lak ) cells has been widely used experimentally . the therapy has several problems , including difficulty in handling , sterilization , and time consumption . to solve these problems , new materials able to induce antitumor immune cells were investigated . pokeweed mitogen ( pwm ) and pwm-conjugated materials ( cmc-1 ) could induce strong killer cells by short-term stimulation of human peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbl ) . the induced killer cells showed a wide killing spectrum in vitro against human tumor cell lines ( mkk-1 , prmi4788 , nbt-2 , zr-7530 , h-1 , hela , kb , hmv-1 , pc-10 , c-1 ) . human pbl stimulated for a short time by cmc-1 also showed a tumoricidal effect on tumor bearing ( mkn-1 , mkn-45 ) nude mice . these results suggest that cmc-1 may solve the problems with currently used lak therapy and may provide easily applicable extracorporeal immunotherapy for cancer . 
protection of the small intestine against irradiation by means of a removable prosthesis . in radiation therapy of tumors , several techniques are used to prevent injury of the intestinal loops . their purpose is to drive the intestine out of the external beam . understanding the disadvantages they present , a temporary prosthesis which effectively protects the small bowel , and is easy to remove , has been developed . the device is a 600 to 1,000 ml , silicone rubber , expandable balloon . when implanted in the pelvis or retroperitoneal cavity , and filled , this balloon displaces the intestinal loops out of the pelvic irradiation field . it may remain either filled or empty between each irradiation session . due to its particular elliptical shape , once empty , the balloon can be removed through a 3 cm incision under local or peridural anesthesia at the completion of radiotherapy . eleven patients with recurrent ( 8 ) or primary ( 3 ) cancer have been implanted . the protective effect has been evaluated on successive biologic tests , performed during treatment . no problem related to the prosthesis , no alteration of the biologic tests , nor bowel injury have been observed after several months follow-up . this device is suitable for preventing intestinal complications during therapy , allowing a higher dose of radiations in some cases . 
large loop excision of the transformation zone ( lletz ) compared to carbon dioxide laser in the treatment of cin : a superior mode of treatment . a series of 199 patients with histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) grade ii or iii were allocated by hospital number to receive out-patient treatment by carbon dioxide laser vaporization or large loop excision of the transformation zone ( lletz ) . all patients received local anaesthesia . the women in the lletz group experienced less post operative haemorrhage , less discomfort , operative time was greatly reduced , and histological material was available for confirmation of the diagnosis . there was no significant difference in recurrence of cin after treatment between the two groups . at 6 month follow-up , recurrence rates of 8.2 % ( cin ii ) and 7.5 % ( cin iii ) were observed in the laser-group and 5 % ( cin ii ) and 5.3 % ( cin iii ) in the lletz group . further advantages of lletz are reduced capital expenditure and no hazard to the eyesight of the surgeon , but laser treatment is preferable in patients with widespread vaginal involvement . 
the relationship of " high risk " mammographic patterns to histological risk factors for development of cancer in the human breast . in the uk trial for the early detection of breast cancer in nottingham , 119 women were identified as having fibrocystic change with epithelial hyperplasia or in situ carcinoma . their mammograms were classified according to wolfe 's criteria and the corresponding histology for each patient was classified for degrees of epithelial hyperplasia , atypia and in situ neoplasia using page 's criteria . a control population of patients presenting for breast screening was used to represent the general population . no correlation was found between the four mammographic wolfe patterns , n1 , p1 , p2 and dy and histological evidence of epithelial hyperplasia , atypia or in situ carcinoma . a further study was carried out to determine histological features of wolfe pattern , using radiological examination of resected breast tissue . the variation in wolfe pattern was related to the distribution of fibrous and adipose tissue in the breast interlobular stroma and appeared to have no relationship to epithelial parenchymal content . this information does not support the hypothesis that radiographic densities of p2 and dy patterns correspond to high risk epithelial proliferation . 
lack of late skin necrosis in man after high-dose irradiation using small field sizes : experiences of grid therapy . out of a total of 437 patients with superior vena caval syndrome or advanced malignancy , given single-dose grid radiotherapy , four survived to 7 years . the dose to the skin under each of the 77 holes in the grid was approximately 58 gy . the lack of skin necrosis in the total of 308 skin circles of 1 cm diameter among these survivors , compared with known necrosis rates in larger irradiated areas , implies that there is a marked field-size effect for late necrosis in small areas of irradiated skin . 
preoperative cytology and mammography in patients with single-duct nipple discharge treated by surgery . microdochectomy has been the routine management for single-duct nipple discharge . our review of 176 consecutive patients surgically treated between 1975 and 1988 revealed eight patients with in situ carcinomas and seven with infiltrative carcinomas . seventeen patients had multiple papillomas , two had atypical hyperplasia and two had atypical epitheliosis . case selection for surgery has recently been advocated . in our study , nipple discharge cytology was helpful in 67 per cent of cases with underlying malignant pathology . mammography was found to be unreliable , alerting suspicion in only two of 15 cases . 
microdochectomy for discharge from a single lactiferous duct . microdochectomy for persistent discharge from a single lactiferous duct was performed in 162 women . invasive or in situ ductal carcinoma was diagnosed in 16 patients ( 10 per cent ) , none of whom had a palpable lump . the discharge was blood-stained in 14 of these women and in two it was clear . mammography was performed in 15 of these 16 patients and was abnormal in only five . three patients had atypical ductal hyperplasia , one of whom subsequently developed an invasive ductal carcinoma . microdochectomy for persistent discharge from a single lactiferous duct is curative and gives a diagnosis of the cause . it remains the treatment of choice whether the discharge is blood-stained or clear . 
fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis and management of fibroadenoma of the breast . cytological and histological biopsies were obtained on 75 breast lumps clinically diagnosed as fibroadenomas . of these , 95 per cent of lesions were benign . in 51 ( 68 per cent ) confirmed as fibroadenomas histologically , cytology was benign in 78 per cent , but inadequate for diagnosis in 16 per cent . the remaining 24 lesions included three breast cancers and one lymph node with hodgkin 's disease . in this group cytology was inadequate for diagnosis in 54 per cent , including one breast cancer . no lesion with benign cytology was subsequently shown to be malignant . the study supports the view that clinical diagnosis and cytology are accurate in the diagnosis of benign breast disease of this type . breast cancer may rarely present with the clinical features of a fibroadenoma and too few lesions have been studied to assess fully the performance of cytological biopsy in detecting these small mobile lesions . a non-excisional policy should therefore include prolonged follow-up and repeat biopsy . 
reduced psychological morbidity after breast conservation . psychological morbidity was compared in 52 patients treated by mastectomy and 67 patients treated by lumpectomy for early breast cancer . an informal counselling service was provided for all patients . morbidity was measured at 6 , 9 and 12 months after surgery with two self-rating scales : the general health questionnaire and the leeds depression and anxiety scales . there was a significant excess of severe depression in the mastectomy group . in contrast to the findings of previous research , this result suggests that breast conservation reduces psychological morbidity . 
impaired polymorphonuclear leucocyte function in patients undergoing hepatectomy : adenylate energy charge and superoxide anion production in relation to hepatic mitochondrial redox state . patients undergoing hepatectomy have an increased susceptibility to infection . we therefore studied the energy metabolism of the polymorphonuclear leucocyte ( pmn ) , focusing on energy charge and function , especially superoxide anion ( o2 - ) generation , in relation to the hepatic mitochondrial redox state . by labelling the pmn adenine nucleotide pool with radioactive adenine and by superoxide dismutase-inhibitable reduction of ferricytochrome c , the energy charge and o2 - production was measured in 18 patients with hepatoma ( non-cirrhotic , seven ; cirrhotic , 11 ) undergoing hepatectomy . their arterial ketone body ratios ( kbrs ) , reflecting the hepatic mitochondrial redox potential , were above 0.7 before operation . after surgery , the 18 patients were divided into two groups : group a , kbr greater than 0.7 , n = 10 ; and group b , kbr less than 0.7 , n = 8 . the energy charge and o2 - release in group b decreased significantly from preoperative values ( p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.01 respectively ) and when compared with group a ( p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01 respectively ) . these results suggest that impaired hepatic energy metabolism ( kbr less than 0.7 ) in hepatectomized patients leads to impaired energy charge and o2 - production in the pmns . 
regional chemotherapy for colorectal liver metastases : a phase ii evaluation of targeted hepatic arterial 5-fluorouracil for colorectal liver metastases . the results of systemic chemotherapy in patients with liver metastases from colorectal cancer remain dismal . regional chemotherapy has been advocated as a method of improving the delivery of cytotoxic drugs to tumour , while minimizing systemic toxicity . the use of vasoactive agents to redistribute arterial blood flow towards tumour , and of biodegradable microspheres to slow tumour blood flow , have also been suggested as methods of further improving tumour exposure to drug . we present 21 patients who received intrahepatic arterial chemotherapy for colorectal liver metastases . combined treatment ( angiotensin ii , albumin microspheres and 5-fluorouracil ) was administered 4-6 weekly , and bolus 5-fluorouracil was given in the intervening weeks . toxicity was minimal . responses were seen in seven patients . fewer than half of the deaths were from liver metastases ; a quarter of the patients died from non-cancer-related causes . survival was prolonged in the treated group compared with historical controls . these results suggest that this regimen has activity in patients with colorectal liver metastases . 
hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma : impact of surgical resection on the natural history . from 1960 to 1987 , 1209 patients with colorectal liver metastases were recorded , and followed until 1 january 1990 . in 242 cases the diagnosis was based on external imaging , whereas 967 patients had operative confirmation and staging of their liver disease . three groups of patients were analysed : group 1 involved 921 cases , of whom 902 were deemed non-resectable whereas 19 could not be unequivocally classified . only 21 patients lived for longer than 3 years , seven survived for 4 years , but there were no 5-year survivors . group 2 comprised 62 highly selected patients who at laparotomy demonstrated resectable metastatic spread confined to the liver , but this was not treated mainly because of a formerly different therapeutic approach . these patients had a significantly longer median survival time ( 14.2 versus 6.9 months ) , but also failed to achieve 5-year survival . the 226 patients forming group 3 underwent hepatic resection with intent to cure . nine of them had minimal macroscopic disease left , and 34 with all gross tumour removed had positive margins . survival of patients with these 43 eventually non-radical resections followed an identical course as in group 2 ( median survival 13.3 months , maximum 42 months ) . of the 183 patients with potentially curative resection ten died after surgery ( 5.5 per cent ) . actuarial 5 and 10-year survival rates in the remaining 173 patients were 40 and 27 per cent with 25 and seven patients alive at respective periods of time . until 1 january 1990 , 64 patients remained free from recurrent disease for up to 24 years . in three patients the tumour status at death was unclear . the other 106 patients developed definite cancer relapse . nevertheless they demonstrated a prolongation of survival time by a median of 1 year when compared with the 43 non-radically resected patients or the 62 untreated patients with resectable liver-only metastases , and accomplished a maximum survival time of 8 years . radical excision of colorectal secondaries to the liver therefore offers effective palliation , and in a small number the chance of a cure . 
extended hepatectomy for hepatocellular carcinoma . the results of extended hepatectomy in 25 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma performed over a 16 year period have been reviewed , analysed and compared with those of 144 patients who underwent lesser liver resection . five left and 20 right extended hepatectomies were performed for tumours ranging from 3 to 20 cm in diameter . seventeen ( 68 per cent ) of the patients had non-cirrhotic livers . the major postoperative complications were : haemorrhage in five cases , major bile duct injury in three , subphrenic abscess in two , liver failure in one and wound dehiscence in one . the 30-day ( operative ) mortality rate was 12 per cent and the median survival duration , including operative mortality , was 9.7 ( range 0.2-32 .1 ) months . the survival rate was 46 per cent at 1 year , 33 per cent at 2 years and 22 per cent at 3 years . the morbidity , mortality and survival data of extended hepatectomy were comparable with the results of lesser hepatic resections for hepatocellular carcinoma . we conclude that extended hepatectomy is a worthwhile operation for large hepatocellular carcinomas and a viable alternative to liver transplantation . 
vastus lateralis myocutaneous flap for reconstruction of defects around the groin and pelvis . we present our experience using the vastus lateralis myocutaneous flap for the repair of defects around the groin and pelvis . it is a relatively new technique , with many advantages over other flaps used in this area , though it has limitations . the history , anatomy and surgical technique of raising the flap are described and clinical cases are discussed . the importance of patient selection is highlighted . 
association between extent of colonic mucosal sialomucin change and subsequent local recurrence after curative excision of primary colorectal cancer . two interrelated studies were carried out to determine whether extent of sialomucin change adjacent to a primary colorectal carcinoma predicted local tumour invasiveness and risk of local recurrence . in the first , depth of tumour penetration was correlated with the length of the sialomucin band adjacent to 72 primary colorectal cancers . there was a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) increase in sialomucin band length adjacent to tumours invading adjacent structures compared with those which had not ( mann-whitney u test ) , although there was no overall correlation between depth of penetration , duke 's classification or degree of differentiation ( kruskal-wallis test ) . a sialomucin band of greater than 3 cm was associated with a 70 per cent probability of adjacent structure ( t4 ) invasion . these observations were then tested prospectively in a second study involving 256 patients to determine whether the presence of a greater than 3 cm sialomucin band could predict local recurrence . presence of a greater than 3 cm sialomucin band was a significant ( x2 = 7.12 , d.f. = 1 , p less than 0.001 ) and independent predictor of local but not distant recurrence . in addition both the interval to local recurrence and survival were significantly shorter if a greater than 3 cm sialomucin band was present . however the accuracy of greater than 3 cm sialomucin band as a predictive test for local recurrence was only 70 per cent . the extent of sialomucin adjacent to a primary colorectal cancer does provide a crude assessment of tumour invasiveness and risk of local recurrence . 
intraluminal pressure adjacent to left colonic anastomoses . a cumulative total of 89 h of pressure data was acquired from both sides of a left colonic anastomosis in 15 patients over a median period of 7 postoperative study days . patients had a colonic ileus lasting 3-10 days and during this proximal and distal inactivity the intraluminal pressure remained within 6 mmhg of atmospheric pressure . after recovery of activity , pressures proximal to the anastomosis in excess of 10 mmhg occurred during less than 1 per cent of the recording time . distal peak pressures were significantly elevated with respect to the proximal site ( p less than 0.001 ) . two-thirds of the distal pressures recorded were between 10 and 20 mmhg and 98 per cent were less than 50 mmhg ; the peak distal pressure was 90 mmhg . four patients had distal repetitive tonic contractions creating a pressure difference across the anastomosis with a mean of 20 mmhg and a peak of 45 mmhg . each contraction persisted for 15-20 min . intraluminal pressures are unlikely to play a role in anastomotic dehiscence . 
thallous chloride uptake and dna profile in parathyroid adenomas . thallium isotope scintigraphy is used to localize parathyroid adenomas but the mechanism underlying the technique is poorly understood . while larger adenomas are reliably localized the results are less certain for small tumours . this study explores the relationship between cellular dna profile and thallium uptake ( localization accuracy ) in 24 parathyroid adenomas . the dna profile was assessed using flow cytometry and standard subtraction thallium scintigraphy was performed before surgery . fifteen of the 24 adenomas demonstrated excessive mitotic activity and 13 of these glands were accurately localized . of the remaining nine glands , only five were localized accurately ( p less than 0.01 , chi 2 test including yates ' correction ) . this difference in thallium uptake could not be accounted for on the basis of gland weight . thallium localization of parathyroid adenomas is related to mitotic activity . this may explain some of the limitations of this technique . 
the importance of calcium regulation in toxic cell injury . studies utilizing the technology of digital imaging fluorescence microscopy . the regulation of ions within the cell is of critical importance in both acute and chronic toxicology . recently , new methods have been developed for measuring such changes in living cells and correlating them with studies of structure , function , and biochemistry . a major revolution has occurred from the linkage between the computer and the light microscope , which has resulted in the use of digital imaging fluorescence microscopy and video intensification microscopy coupled with image analysis . these methods have already yielded much additional information and it is anticipated that their further application by pathologists and toxicologists will continue to uncover the important role of ion deregulation and toxic cell injury . 
esophageal adenocarcinoma in a patient with surgically treated achalasia . although squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus occurs with increased incidence in primary achalasia , esophageal adenocarcinoma has been considered rare in this condition . we report a patient with long-standing achalasia in whom adenocarcinoma of the esophagus occurred many years after heller esophagomyotomy , presumably related to barrett 's esophagus complicating gastro-esophageal reflux disease . 
cathepsins d and e in normal , metaplastic , dysplastic , and carcinomatous gastric tissue : an immunohistochemical study . immunohistochemical distributions of cathepsins d and e were determined in normal mucosa , metaplastic , dysplastic , and cancerous lesions of the human stomach . cathepsins d and e were localised in the foveolar epithelium and parietal cells of the normal gastric mucosa , but their intracytoplasmic distributions were different - cathepsin e distribution was even and diffuse in the cytoplasm while cathepsin d was found in coarse intracytoplasmic granules . chronic inflammation and ulcer did not influence the distribution of these enzymes . no positive staining was obtained in the incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia , dysplasia , and well differentiated adenocarcinoma . tumour cells of signet ring cell carcinoma and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma cells , however , gave strong and diffuse stainings for cathepsins d and e in the cytoplasm . the results suggest that the distribution of cathepsins d and e is related to each specialised function of the foveolar epithelium and the parietal cells , and that their disappearance is associated with development of well differentiated adenocarcinoma from intestinal metaplasia . 
microspectrophotometric dna analysis in ulcerative colitis with special reference to its application in diagnosis of carcinoma and dysplasia . the deoxyribonucleic ( dna ) content was measured by microspectrophotometry in 100 specimens from 60 patients with ulcerative colitis , including six patients in whom the colitis was associated with carcinoma . some 23 of 30 ( 77 % ) specimens of dysplastic tissue showed aneuploidy or polyploidy , whereas 50 of 53 ( 94 % ) specimens of non-dysplastic tissue showed diploidy . the difference was statistically significant ( p less than 0.001 ) . polyploidy was often observed in non-dysplastic mucosa from patients who had carcinoma or dysplasia . in the non-dysplastic patients all samples of inflamed tissue showed diploidy . some 10 % of samples without inflammation , however , also showed polyploidy . a good correlation was found between the frequency of polyploid cells and the grade of dysplasia . microspectrophotometric measurement of dna content proved useful in the assessment and diagnosis of dysplasia in ulcerative colitis and could be considered for screening high risk patients . 
role of upper gastrointestinal investigations in a screening study for colorectal neoplasia . should patients with positive faecal occult blood screening tests who are free of colorectal neoplasia undergo upper gastrointestinal investigation ? altogether 16,985 faecal occult blood tests were completed in a group of 18,818 asymptomatic patients ( 45-75 years ) offered screening at two yearly intervals . a total of 447 ( 2.6 % ) were positive and underwent large bowel investigations . no neoplastic disease was identified in 283 ( 63 % ) of them . fourteen ( 5 % ) also underwent gastroscopy for upper gastrointestinal symptoms , benign conditions were identified in five and a gastric carcinoma in one . no further investigations were instituted in the remaining 269 subjects who have now been followed up for a median period of 5 years ( 2-8 years ) . five have been referred for benign upper gastrointestinal conditions , but none for upper gastrointestinal malignancy . thirty one subjects have died - one from gastric cancer ( a patient who had undergone a previous partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer and who had persistent upper gastrointestinal symptoms ) . the remaining deaths were unrelated to the upper gastrointestinal tract . nineteen people who have left the trial area have been monitored for the development of malignant disease ; none have presented with upper gastrointestinal malignancy . these data support the view that upper gastrointestinal investigations need not be performed routinely in this group of subjects , but may be reserved for those with relevant symptoms . 
role of ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma . in 170 cases of hepatocellular carcinoma , ultrasound showed a high sensitivity in identifying focal liver lesions . fine needle aspiration biopsy guided by ultrasound yielded a pathological diagnosis in the majority of cases . the advantages of this technique , its high diagnostic yield and low cost , render the older technique of blind percutaneous biopsy using a coarse needle obsolete . laparoscopy retains its essential role in selected cases . complementary use of fine needle aspiration biopsy under ultrasound guidance and laparoscopy assures the highest rate of diagnostic accuracy in hepatocellular carcinoma . we confirm the poor sensitivity of alpha fetoprotein . 
stomal adenocarcinoma in crohn 's disease . malignant change occurring at the site of a stoma in two patients with proved crohn 's disease is described . patients with ulcerative colitis have an increased risk of colonic malignancy and crohn 's disease is also associated with both small and large bowel carcinoma . most previous reports of stomal carcinoma have been associated with ulcerative colitis although crohn 's disease seems to carry a greater risk of associated small bowel carcinomas . this is the first report of stomal carcinoma complicating crohn 's disease . epithelial dysplasia is associated with gastrointestinal carcinomas in both ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease and a dysplasia-carcinoma sequence has been suggested as the origin of these tumours . in both our patients with stomal adenocarcinoma , dysplasia was identified in adjacent tissues , which suggests a similar mechanism . malignant change should be suspected if epithelial dysplasia is discovered in a biopsy specimen from the mucosa of an ileostomy in crohn 's disease , and this risk is increased if the dysplasia is of a high grade . 
squamous carcinoma in the liver . squamous carcinoma of the liver has only rarely been reported . we present a case which highlights not only the difficulties in diagnosis but also how it can closely mimic sclerosing cholangitis . 
function after amputation , arthrodesis , or arthroplasty for tumors about the knee . we studied the function of twenty-two patients who had had a malignant skeletal tumor adjacent to the knee . an above-the-knee amputation was done in seven ; a resection arthrodesis , in nine ; and a replacement arthroplasty , in six . the patients all walked at a similar speed ( sixty-one to sixty-six meters per minute ) , which is slower than normal ( eighty meters per minute ) . they all walked with comparable efficiency at three velocities : the mean consumption of oxygen was 0.210 milliliter per kilogram of body weight per meter at free velocity , 0.215 milliliter per kilogram of body weight per meter when they walked 25 per cent faster , and 0.211 to 0.240 milliliter per kilogram of body weight per meter when they walked 50 per cent faster . the three groups of patients and a normal control group consumed oxygen at similar rates . the patients who had had an amputation were very active , and they were the least worried about damaging the affected limb , but they had difficulty walking on steep , rough , or slippery surfaces . the patients who had had an arthrodesis had a more stable limb and performed the most demanding physical work and recreational activities , but they had difficulty sitting . the patients who had had an arthroplasty led sedentary lives and were the most protective of the limb , but they were the least self-conscious about the limb . 
the van nes tibial rotationplasty . a functionally viable reconstructive procedure in children who have a tumor of the distal end of the femur . twelve patients who had a malignant tumor of the distal end of the femur were treated with a van nes tibial rotationplasty . the survival rates were comparable with those for above-the-knee amputees and patients who had an endoprosthetic replacement . the results of functional testing showed that these patients performed as well as those who had endoprosthetic replacement and better than those who had above-the-knee amputation . rotationplasty is therefore a favorable alternative to amputation or endoprosthetic replacement , either as a primary or as a salvage procedure . 
insulin-like growth factor i expression by tumors of neuroectodermal origin with the t ( 11 ; 22 ) chromosomal translocation . a potential autocrine growth factor . expression of insulin-like growth factor i ( igf-i ) mrna by some tumor cell lines of neuroectodermal origin has been described . to further explore the significance of igf-i mrna expression in these tumors , a more extensive analysis was performed . most ( 9 of 10 ) neuroectodermal tumor cell lines with a t ( 11 ; 22 ) translocation ( primitive neuroectodermal tumor [ pnet ] , ewing 's sarcoma , esthesioneuroblastoma ) expressed igf-i mrna , whereas 0 of 15 cell lines without the translocation ( pnet , neuroblastoma ) expressed igf-i . furthermore , inasmuch as all neuroblastoma ( 12 of 12 ) cell lines examined expressed igf-ii rna , the pattern of igf expression could distinguish between these closely related tumors . chp-100 , a pnet cell line with the t ( 11 ; 22 ) translocation , was shown to secrete both igf-i protein and an igf binding protein , igfbp-2 . this cell line also expressed the type i igf receptor mrna , and blockade of this receptor by a monoclonal antibody ( alpha ir3 ) inhibited serum-free growth . these data demonstrate that igf-i expression is a property of neuroectodermal tumors with a t ( 11 ; 22 ) translocation and that interruption of an igf-i autocrine loop inhibits the growth of these tumor cells . 
metabolic effects of cachectin/tumor necrosis factor are modified by site of production . cachectin/tumor necrosis factor-secreting tumor in skeletal muscle induces chronic cachexia , while implantation in brain induces predominantly acute anorexia . we have developed a murine model of wasting by injecting intracerebrally cells which continuously secrete h-cachectin/tnf ( cho-tnf ) to : ( a ) determine the effects of cachectin/tnf produced continuously in the central nervous system ( cns ) , and ( b ) compare the metabolic effects of cachectin/tnf-secreting tumor in the brain to the cachexia caused by cho-tnf tumor in peripheral tissue ( im ) . intracerebral cho-tnf tumors produced increased serum h-cachectin/tnf levels with lethal hypophagia and weight loss ( mean survival time of 11 d ) ; these changes were not observed in association with nonsecretory control brain tumors . the metabolic consequences of intracerebral cachectin/tnf production were indistinguishable from acute , lethal starvation : whole-body lipid content was decreased significantly but protein was conserved . although intramuscular cachectin/tnf-secreting tumors caused similar increases of serum h-cachectin/tnf levels , profound anorexia did not develop ; wasting developed after a longer period of tumor burden ( 50 d ) with classical signs of cachexia ( i.e. , anemia and depletion of both protein and lipid ) . these studies provide a reproducible animal model of site-specific cytokine production and suggest that , regardless of serum levels , cachectin/tnf produced locally in brain influences both the rate of development of wasting and its net metabolic effects . 
active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma . a clinical trial with mouse antiidiotypic monoclonal antibodies elicited with syngeneic anti-high-molecular-weight-melanoma-associated antigen monoclonal antibodies [ published erratum appears in j clin invest 1991 feb ; 87 ( 2 ) :757 ] in two clinical trials the mouse antiidiotypic monoclonal antibody ( mab ) mf11-30 , which bears the internal image of human high-molecular-weight-melanoma-associated antigen ( hmw-maa ) was administered by subcutaneous route without adjuvants to patients with stage iv malignant melanoma on day 0 , 7 , and 28 . additional injections were administered if anti-antiidiotypic antibodies were not found or their titer decreased . in the first phase i trial with 16 patients the initial dose was 0.5 mg per injection and escalated to 4 mg per injection . neither toxicity nor allergic reactions were observed despite the development of anti-mouse ig antibodies . minor responses were observed in three patients . in a second clinical trial mab mf11-30 was administered to 21 patients at a dose of 2 mg per injection , since this dose had been shown in the initial study to be effective in inducing anti-antiidiotypic antibodies . two patients were inevaluable ; in the remaining 19 patients , the average duration of treatment was 34 wk . in this trial as well , neither toxicity nor allergic reactions were observed . 17 of the 19 immunized patients increased the levels of anti-mouse ig antibodies and 16 developed antibodies that inhibit the binding of antiidiotypic mab mf11-30 to the immunizing anti-hmw-maa mab 225.28 . one patient increased the level of anti-hmw-maa antibodies . one patient achieved a complete remission with disappearance of multiple abdominal lymph nodes for a duration of 95 wk . minor responses were observed in three patients . these results suggest that mouse antiidiotypic mab that bear the internal image of hmw-maa may be useful reagents to implement active specific immunotherapy in patients with melanoma . 
occurrence of human papillomavirus type 16 dna in cutaneous squamous and basal cell neoplasms . sixty-eight cutaneous squamous cell neoplasms ( in situ and invasive ) and 26 basal cell carcinomas from 89 patients were analyzed for dna sequences homologous to the human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types found predominantly in the genital tract . thirty-six ( 53 % ) of the squamous cell neoplasms contained hpv dna as detected by filter or in situ hybridization analysis . the frequency of detection of hpv dna was dependent on the site of the lesion . of 40 genital squamous cell neoplasms ( penile , vulvar , and perianal ) , 27 ( 68 % ) had detectable hpv dna . in 25 of these , the hpv type was 16 or hpv-16-related , which was similar to the results for the squamous cell neoplasms of the finger ( hpv dna in 9 of 11 tumors with hpv-16 in seven ) . none of 16 squamous cell neoplasms from sites other than the genital tract or the finger had detectable hpv dna . hpv dna was detected in one of the 26 basal cell carcinomas ( 4 % ) . we conclude that , for cutaneous epithelial malignancies , hpv-16 is restricted to squamous cell neoplasms of the genital tract and finger . these data are consistent with venereal transmission of hpv-16 to the periungual region and suggests a role for this virus in the evolution of squamous cell carcinoma at this site . 
spitz nevi in black children . four black children with spitz nevi are presented . the initial clinical diagnosis was pyogenic granuloma for three patients . one child had two spitz nevi . histologic examination revealed melanocytic dendritic hyperplasia in all cases . 
ocular melanoma in families with dysplastic nevus syndrome . five families with the dysplastic nevus syndrome , in each of which one member had ocular melanoma , are reported . these five families were examined within a 3-year period in one medical center . to date only five other families with such a combination have been reported . we suggest a causal relation between ocular melanoma and the familial dysplastic nevus syndrome . 
polypoid melanoma : a virulent variant of nodular melanoma . report of three cases and literature review . we report the cases of three patients with polypoid melanoma . in no case was there microscopic evidence of melanoma cell invasion below the papillary dermis . in the polypoid variant of nodular melanoma , melanoma cells accumulate in large volume above the skin 's surface . this increase in tumor volume encourages dislodgment of melanoma cells that are carried to superficial lymphatic vessels without invading the reticular dermis ; this feature differentiates polypoid melanoma from the nonpolypoid nodular variant . although polypoid melanoma is considered the most malignant form of melanoma , our findings , albeit limited to three cases , suggest that early diagnosis and prompt surgical excision may provide a favorable 5-year survival rate . 
photopheresis for the treatment of cutaneous t cell lymphoma . we investigated the use of extracorporeal chemotherapy ( photopheresis ) in eight patients with cutaneous t cell lymphoma . initially described by edelson et al . for the treatment of erythrodermic cutaneous t cell lymphoma , we have expanded the treatment to include patients with extensive patch/plaque disease as well as tumor-stage disease . four of five patients with erythrodermic stage disease had either a complete or a partial clinical remission with photopheresis alone . one patient with extensive patch/plaque disease continued to have a partial clinical remission of 7 months ' duration with photopheresis alone . of the two patients with tumor-stage disease , one remained without evidence of clinical disease at 10 months with photopheresis alone , whereas the second patient had a partial clinical remission of 5 months with a combination of local radiation therapy followed by monthly photopheresis . the skin biopsy specimen obtained from the patient with tumor-stage disease in complete clinical remission did not show cutaneous t cell lymphoma . we conclude that photopheresis is an effective modality alone or in combination with adjunctive therapy for erythroderma , extensive patch/plaque disease , and some tumor-stage disease . 
causes of death in the elderly and their changing pattern in hisayama , a japanese community . results from a long-term and autopsy-based study . the causes of death for the elderly were prospectively studied in hisayama , japan , a rural community . we compared 1,621 subjects , aged 40 years or over , recruited in 1961 , and 2,053 subjects recruited in 1974 . each cohort was studied in a follow-up that lasted 10 years ; they had autopsy rates of 82.1 % and 86.1 % during each 10-year period , respectively . the most common causes of death for those aged 70 years or over were cerebrovascular disease , malignant neoplasms , and pneumonia . deaths due to cerebrovascular disease tended to decrease in the recent cohort , but the proportion of decline was more prominent in cases aged 40 to 69 years . there was a sex difference in the changing pattern of mortality from heart diseases including ischemic heart disease . deaths by both heart diseases and ischemic heart disease increased in the more recent cohort of aged women , whereas they decreased in the aged men . pneumonia was an important cause of death for the elderly in both cohorts . deaths due to " senility " were rare , being only 1 % of the deceased aged 70 or over . with prolonged lifespan , especially for women , the impact of atherosclerosis and its related disorders on the recent japanese aged population appears to have increased . 
leukocyte larceny : spurious hypoxemia confirmed with pulse oximetry leukemic patients with extremely high white blood counts may exhibit the phenomenon of leukocyte larceny , in which white blood cells metabolize plasma oxygen in arterial blood gas samples ( abg ) producing a spuriously low oxygen tension . we report the case of a leukemic patient with a white blood count in excess of 500,000 in whom multiple abgs documented hypoxemia out of proportion to his clinical picture . pulse oximetry was used to confirm higher hemoglobin oxygen saturation to establish the leukocyte larceny . 
blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia associated with a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma . blepharospasm-oromandibular dystonia is characterized by the presence of spasms of the orbicularis oculi ( blepharospasm ) and of the lower facial or oromandibular muscles . a patient with this syndrome is presented in which a left cerebellopontine angle meningioma appeared to act as a triggering mechanism for the development of this disorder . on the basis of this report , we recommend that physicians search for this tumor in patients with this disorder . 
a randomized trial of the effect of three non-steroid anti-inflammatory agents in ameliorating cancer-induced fever . paraneoplastic fever is well known , and is not an uncommon problem in daily practice . in an effort to ameliorate tumour-induced fever we randomized 48 patients to receive three different non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs : naproxen ( 500 mg d-1 ) , indomethacin ( 75 mg d-1 ) or diclophenac sodium ( 75 mg d-1 ) . all patients had solid tumours , and microbial infection had been excluded . all three drugs were equally effective in bringing the temperature down to normal for a period of 30-33 d. naproxen had the most rapid effect . in cases of fever relapse with the first drug , when the other two drugs were given instead , both proved equally effective . no side-effects were observed . we conclude that naproxen , indomethacin and diclophenac sodium are equally effective in ameliorating paraneoplastic fever . in relapse , a second drug given subsequently can be effective as well . 
castanospermine vs. its 6-o-butanoyl analog : a comparison of toxicity and antiviral activity in vitro and in vivo . inhibitors of glycoprotein processing , such as castanospermine ( 1,6,7,8-tetrahydroxyoctahydroindolizine ) , have been shown previously to inhibit human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) with acceptable toxicity in cultured human cells . in prior experiments , we have tested the toxicity and antiviral efficacy of castanospermine in mice infected with the rauscher murine leukemia virus ( rlv ) . when compared with 3 ' - azido-3 ' - deoxythymidine ( azt , zidovudine ) , castanospermine was less effective and more toxic . since the 6-o-butanoyl analog of castanospermine was previously found to have a more favorable activity profile than the parent compound against hiv-1 in cultured cells , we compared the antiviral efficacy of both compounds in parallel in vitro and in vivo in the rlv system . plaque formation in the xc assay was inhibited with a 50 % inhibitory concentration ( ic50 ) of 2.4 microm for the 6-o-butanoyl analog of castanospermine , as compared to 9 microm for castanospermine . for both compounds , concentrations resulting in significant cytotoxicity were about ten times higher . both compounds significantly decreased hiv-1 env-induced syncytium formation in a novel in vitro assay . in rlv-exposed mice , the 6-o-butanoyl analog showed no advantage over the parent compound : both curves for toxicity as well as antiviral efficacy were super-imposable . we conclude that the 6-o-butanoyl analog of castanospermine as well as castanospermine itself are active antiviral agents in mice and that prolonged oral administration is tolerable . however , in comparison to azt , their antiviral activity profiles are less favorable . 
incidence of polymyositis-dermatomyositis : a 20-year study of hospital diagnosed cases in allegheny county , pa 1963-1982 . the incidence of hospital diagnosed polymyositis-dermatomyositis ( pm-dm ) among residents of pittsburgh and allegheny county , pa was determined from 1963 to 1982 . medical records of all allegheny county hospitals were searched for patients diagnosed pm-dm , and each accepted case was reviewed and verified by a physician , according to specified criteria . direct age adjusted incidence rates were computed for race and sex , as new cases/million population/year , with the 1970 allegheny county population as the standard . one hundred seventy-seven cases were identified during this 20-year survey for a total annual incidence of 5.5 / million population . incidence more than tripled during 1973-1982 compared to the first decade of study , with the greatest increase occurring in black women . overall , the female to male incidence ratio was 2.2:1 , but during the childbearing years ( ages 15-44 ) this ratio increased to greater than 5:1 in both races . detection of pm-dm is increasing , as shown by temporal trends . although our series has significantly more adult pm and less dm and overlap cases than other published studies , annual incidence is similar to that reported in other locales . 
bladder outlet obstruction due to pelvic lipoma : computerized tomography , magnetic resonance imaging and radiographic evaluation . we report an unusual case of long-standing bladder outlet obstruction due to pelvic lipoma in a 31-year-old white man . the mass was evaluated by plain film , computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging . the differential diagnosis of fat-containing extraperitoneal pelvic masses is discussed . 
adenocarcinoma of the urachus associated with elevated levels of ca 125 . adenocarcinoma of the urachus is a rare genitourinary tumor with a poor prognosis . the treatment of choice is en bloc surgical resection , although combination therapy with surgery and chemotherapy has been used with mixed results . we describe a 69-year-old woman with adenocarcinoma of the urachus and elevated serum levels of ca 125 tumor marker . she was treated with resection plus 5-fluorouracil , doxorubicin and mitomycin , alternating with platinum-based chemotherapy . the serum ca 125 level decreased precipitously after the operation and became normal after 2 months of chemotherapy . the patient remained free of disease 1 year postoperatively . serum ca 125 may be a useful tumor marker for urachal carcinoma and adjuvant chemotherapy may be effective in treating the disease . 
unresectable calcified bladder tumor : hemiacidrin irrigation as an adjunct to resection . radiographic calcification of urothelial malignancies is an uncommon finding . to our knowledge , calcification of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder preventing transurethral resection has not been reported previously . we report a case of an initially unresectable radiopaque bladder tumor and discuss the successful , conservative management with continuous bladder irrigation with hemiacidrin followed by complete transurethral resection . 
rectourethral fistula caused by kaposi 's sarcoma . a 35-year-old man with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex was evaluated for a persistent urethral discharge , pneumaturia and watery diarrhea . radiographic and endoscopic procedures established the diagnosis of a rectourethral fistula . perineal exploration and excision of the fistula revealed the pathological diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma . the differential diagnosis of an acquired rectourethral fistula and the significance of kaposi 's sarcoma are discussed . 
adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with xxy karyotype and chronic lymphocytic leukemia : report of a case . we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with 47xxy karyotype ( klinefelter 's syndrome ) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia . the increased incidence of malignancy in individuals with klinefelter 's syndrome has been well documented for certain neoplasms . adenocarcinoma of the prostate has not been reported previously in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome and a 47xxy karyotype . absence of mosaicism was confirmed by peripheral lymphocyte , skin fibroblast , bone marrow cell and spleen stroma fibroblast cultures . chronic lymphocyte leukemia , especially the t-cell cytotoxic/suppressive variant , may additionally add to an immunological deficit . since carcinoma of the prostate , klinefelter 's syndrome and chronic lymphocytic leukemia are common , the lack of a previous report is interesting . etiological aspects are discussed . 
exaggerated venous mural hypertrophy in association with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate . a 61-year-old black man presented with metastases to the right groin 5 years after 125iodine treatment for a well differentiated primary prostatic adenocarcinoma . medium sized veins within and immediately adjacent to the neoplasm showed marked mural thickening due to hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the inner circular and outer longitudinal muscles . there was no histological evidence of radiation effect in the stroma or in the tumor cells . we could find no report in the literature of such changes associated with metastatic carcinoma . 
end stage renal disease serum contains a specific renal cell growth factor . end stage renal disease ( esrd ) kidneys display abnormal growth characterized by a continuum of cystic disease , adenoma and carcinoma . this study evaluates the hypothesis that serum of patients with esrd contains increased amounts of a growth factor which specifically induces proliferation of renal cells . esrd sera compared to sera from normal controls induced a two to three-fold increase in the proliferative rate of renal cell carcinoma cell lines and normal kidney explants compared to cell lines from other sites . the increased proliferative activity of esrd sera on renal cells was paralleled by an increase in cytosolic free calcium . the growth factor activity was encoded by a polypeptide of between 15 and 30 kd . the activity of esrd sera on renal cells was not mimicked or inhibited by epidermal growth factor , basic fibroblast growth factor and platelet derived growth factor indicating that the renal cell specific growth factor activity in esrd is different from these factors . 
cytotoxic effects of high energy shock waves in different in vitro models : influence of the experimental set-up . high energy shock waves ( electromagnetically generated , siemens lithostar ) were studied for their effects in vitro on different ( tumor ) cell types . cells were exposed to the shock waves as a single cell suspension or as a cell pellet on the bottom of a test tube . in both cases , a dose dependent direct cytotoxicity , established by trypan blue dye exclusion , was observed after treatment with 1000 or 2000 shock waves . also , the antiproliferative capacity as determined by clonogenic potential ( double layer soft agar ) and growth rate ( plastic ) were affected in this way . however , comparing the results after treatment in suspension or pellet , a discrepancy was evident . the cell lines showed a different susceptibility in pellet vs. suspension . also the differential sensitivity of the cell types varied in these two treatment models . furthermore the outcome depended on the cell concentration ; direct cytotoxicity in a cell suspension was more pronounced at higher cell concentrations , while in a pellet this was increased by decreasing the number of cells . finally , no shock wave induced cytotoxicity could be seen after fixation of cells in gelatine or by placing the pellet on a bottom layer of gelatine . pressure measurements revealed no adequate explanation for this phenomenon . these results indicate that in vitro effects depend on the way cells are exposed to the shock waves and can be greatly influenced by changing the conditions of the microenvironment . therefore , precise descriptions of the experimental set-up and careful interpretations of their outcome are obligatory . 
surgical management and prognosis of renal cell carcinoma invading the vena cava . a total of 44 patients with renal cell carcinoma and vena caval tumor thrombus underwent surgical resection . of these patients 27 had primary tumor confined within gerota 's fascia , negative lymph nodes and no distant metastases ( stage t3cn0m0 ) . patients who underwent extraction of a mobile tumor thrombus from the vena cava had a 69 % 5-year survival rate ( median 9.9 years ) but patients with tumor thrombus directly invading the vena cava had a 26 % 5-year survival rate ( median 1.2 years ) , which improved to 57 % ( median 5.3 years ) if the involved vena caval side wall was resected successfully . of these patients 17 had renal cell carcinoma with vena caval thrombus as well as extrafascial extension , regional lymphadenopathy or distant metastases , and the 5-year survival rate was less than 18 % in all groups ( median survival less than 0.9 years ) . prognosis was determined by the pathological stage of the renal cell carcinoma and by the presence or absence of vena caval side wall invasion but not by the level of tumor thrombus extension . patients with incomplete resection of localized renal cell carcinoma with tumor thrombus do not survive any longer than those with extensive cancer , positive lymph nodes or distant metastases . however , when partial venacavectomy establishes negative surgical margins then survival markedly improves . 
progression of stage t1 bladder tumors after intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin [ published erratum appears in j urol 1991 apr ; 145 ( 4 ) :840 ] of 221 patients with superficial bladder tumors ( stages ta , tis and t1 ) treated by transurethral resection and an initial 6-week course of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) 195 were evaluated after 3 months for local response . of these patients 17 ( 8.7 % ) had a stage t1 tumor , of whom 14 ( 82 % ) subsequently had muscle invasion ( 7 ) , uncontrolled local disease ( 6 ) or metastasis ( 1 ) . the median interval to progression was 8.4 months , which was significantly ( p = 0.0001 ) less than among the other 178 patients with a nonstage t1 lesion or no tumor found at 3 months , of whom 44 ( 25 % ) had progression ( median more than 5 years ) . these data suggest that patients with stage t1 tumor 3 months after bcg therapy require additional therapy other than simple tumor resection and meticulous followup . 
results of contemporary radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer : a clinicopathological study with an emphasis on the inadequacy of the tumor , nodes and metastases classification . we reviewed 261 patients who underwent a radical operation at a single institution as definitive treatment of invasive bladder cancer to evaluate the survival and accuracy of the tumor , nodes and metastasis system in characterizing the prognosis . between january 1979 and june 1987 the 261 evaluable patients underwent 1-stage radical cystectomy with pelvic node dissection and urinary diversion . no chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy was given before or after the operation . the postoperative mortality rate was 1.8 % . the over-all staging error between clinical and pathological stages was as high as 44 % . the over-all actuarial 5-year survival rate was 54.5 % . the 5-year survival rates were 75 % for stage pt1 , 63 % for stage pt2 , 31 % for stage pt3 and 21 % for stage pt4 disease . a significant difference in the survival ( p less than 0.002 ) was observed in stage pt3 by dividing tumors confined within the bladder wall ( pt3a , 50 % ) from those extending throughout the bladder wall ( pt3b , 15 % ) . a careful evaluation of transitional cell involvement of the prostate in stage pt4a cancer led to the identification of 2 different patterns : 1 ) contiguous when a bladder tumor extended directly into the prostate through the bladder wall and 2 ) noncontiguous when a bladder tumor and a transitional cell carcinoma of the prostate were found simultaneously . these patterns had completely different ( p less than 0.05 ) survival rates ( 6 versus 37 % ) . the patients with high grade tumors had a worse prognosis in comparison with those with grades 1 and 2 tumors ( 41 versus 56 % , p less than 0.005 ) . the over-all 5-year survival of patients with positive nodes was 4 % in comparison with 60 % of those without nodal involvement ( p less than 0.001 ) . despite current optimal surgical treatment , nearly 50 % of all patients with invasive bladder cancer continue to die . the need for a modification of the current tumor , nodes and metastasis tumor classification to provide the clinician a more reliable staging system for planning treatment modalities is indeed mandatory . 
total bladder replacement using detubularized sigmoid colon : technique and results . we performed total bladder replacement with a detubularized segment of sigmoid colon in patients after cystoprostatectomy . the surgical technique and long-term results in 27 patients are reported . this neobladder configuration compared favorably with other neobladder types regarding ease of construction . the surgical complications were acceptable . initial reservoir function was good but improved further with time . after 1 year the capacity averaged 600 cc , pressures during filling and at capacity were low ( average 12 and 16 cm . water ) and emptying was satisfactory ( residual urine 4 to 80 cc ) . all patients were continent during the day and 67 % were continent at night without excessive voiding habits . nighttime incontinence was further resolved in 2 patients by using the ams 800 artificial sphincter around the bulbous urethra . the detubularized sigmoid is an excellent neobladder configuration after cystoprostatectomy . 
