animal models of osteomyelitis . knowledge , hypothesis , and speculation . each animal model has provided insights . particularly important was the considerable resistance of bone to infection without manipulation ( no morrhuate , fracture , rod , wax , or prosthesis ) . such perturbations allow bone infection with much smaller inocula . typical inocula decreases are 1000 to 10,000 fold . staphylococci may have a selective advantage in bone because of specialized or tropic binding , perhaps to cartilage or collagen . osteoclast-induced resorption of hydroxyapatite might explain the distribution of some osteomyelitis . increased osteoclast activity could link the susceptible metaphyseal regions , the repetitively traumatized diabetic foot , a history of blunt bone trauma , fracture , and perhaps even nearby soft tissue infection . diagnosis remains difficult ; gallium-67 and indium111 labeled wbc probably deserve additional investigation . therapeutic failures in the rabbit and rat models mirror clinical experience . clindamycin , rifampin , and quinolones are promising . neither systemic nor local antimicrobial prophylaxis is well studied yet . 
hyperbaric oxygen as adjunctive therapy for osteomyelitis . mechanistically , hyperbaric oxygen ( hbo ) appears useful for the treatment of osteomyelitis . hbo increases the oxygen tension in infected tissue , including bone . an adequate oxygen tension is necessary for oxygen-dependent killing of organisms by the polymorphonuclear leukocytes and for fibroblast activity leading to angiogenesis and wound healing . hbo has a direct bacteriocidal or bacteriostatic effect on anaerobic organisms . in addition , hbo augments the killing of pseudomonas aeruginosa by the aminoglycoside -- tobramycin . at the university of texas medical branch at galveston , adjunctive hbo is used for the cierny mader stage 3b and 4b osteomyelitis . 
an animal model for human masseter muscle : histochemical characterization of mouse , rat , rabbit , cat , dog , pig , and cow masseter muscle . the masseter muscle of several animal species was investigated by use of a histochemical method for the demonstration of acid-stable and alkali-stable myosin adenosine triphosphatase ( atpase ) . the following subdivisions of fiber types were used : type i fibers show weak atpase activity at ph 9.4 , type im fibers react moderately , and type ii fibers react strongly . rat and mouse masseter muscles contained type ii fibers only , as did some rabbit masseter muscles , whereas other rabbit masseter muscles possessed equal amounts of type i and ii fibers . cat and dog masseter muscles possessed both type ii and i fibers , with type ii predominating . cow masseter muscle consisted mainly of type i fibers , although some cow masseter muscles contained a very small number of type ii fibers . pig masseter muscle had both type i , ii , and im fibers . one of the characteristics of human masseter muscle is type im fibers , which are rarely seen in muscles other than the masticatory muscles . therefore , pig masseter muscle might be a suitable animal model for experimental studies , such as an investigation of the distribution and diameter of fiber types in the masticatory muscles before and after orthognathic surgery . 
immunologic and pathologic manifestations of the infection of rhesus monkeys with simian immunodeficiency virus of macaques . the striking similarities between simian immunodeficiency virus ( siv ) - induced disease in macaque monkeys and hiv-induced disease in humans make the siv-induced macaque monkey an extraordinarily important model for the study of aids . the most significant difference between these lentivirus-induced syndromes is the more rapid progression of disease in siv-infected monkeys . the immunologic and pathologic manifestations of siv infections in rhesus monkeys are described . 
gentamicin iontophoresis in the treatment of bacterial otitis externa in the guinea pig model . pseudomonas otitis externa is one of the most common infections treated by otolaryngologists . infections induced in 30 guinea pigs appeared similar to that seen in humans . the ears were then placed into four treatment groups : group a , which received a single cleaning ; group b , which received a single cleaning followed by gentamicin drops 4 times daily ; group c , which received a single cleaning followed by a single gentamicin iontophoresis treatment ; and group d , the control group , which received no treatment . infections were analyzed by grading edema , purulence , and erythema . an average of 10.2 days was required for control group to return to normal appearance . groups a , b , and c had mean resolution times of 5.9 , 4.7 , and 4.3 days , respectively . gentamicin iontophoresis appears to be promising , with results as good as drop therapy in otitis externa in the guinea pig model . 
a multivariate approach to the treatment of peripheral nerve transection injury : the role of electromagnetic field therapy . a multivariate approach to the treatment of peripheral nerve transection injury has been used in a rat model . a pilot study ( 48 animals , 8 groups ) examined variables associated with the method and timing of surgical repair , the arrest of wallerian degeneration , and the role of pulsing electromagnetic field therapy ( pemf ) in functional recovery . a second phase ( 90 animals , 6 groups ) then studied the timing and duration of pulsing electromagnetic field therapy as the only variable in larger groups of animals . the pilot study revealed that a vein-graft conduit did not improve functional recovery compared with standard epineurial repair . additionally , delayed repair compared favorably with immediate repair . the use of chlorpromazine to inhibit the toxic effects of calcium influx appeared to enhance early functional recovery , and the combination of delayed nerve repair and pulsing electromagnetic field therapy seemed to consistently improve function . the second phase of the study has demonstrated ( for the first time ) statistical improvement in ambulation in animals treated with delayed surgical repair and prolonged pulsing electromagnetic field therapy . we postulate that future treatment of nerve transection injuries will involve a combined treatment regimen consisting of the immediate arrest of wallerian degeneration , delayed surgery , and pulsing electromagnetic field therapy . 
collagen of the dystrophic hamster diaphragm . the collagen content of the diaphragm was measured in normal and dystrophic hamsters aged 130 and 270 days . the diaphragm collagen content was greater in dystrophic hamsters than in control hamsters of the same age . the effect was greater in the older hamsters whether the collagen content was expressed in terms of the percentage of dry weight , in relation to surface area , or as total collagen . this increase was apparently at the expense of muscle tissue and may be a major factor contributing to respiratory muscle weakness as dystrophy advances . 
placental thromboxane and prostacyclin production in an ovine diabetic model . we hypothesized that streptozocin-induced ovine diabetes would cause alterations in the placental production of thromboxane and prostacyclin . with a tissue incubation technique , we examined the placental production of thromboxane and prostacyclin in cotyledons from seven normal near-term ewes ( 127 + / - 3 days ' gestation ) and six streptozocin-induced diabetic ewes ( 125 + / - 3 days ' gestation ) . diabetic status was verified with serial fasting blood glucose assessments . placental tissue was incubated in dulbecco 's modified eagle 's medium for 48 hours at 37 degrees c with 95 % oxygen and 5 % carbon dioxide . samples were collected at 0 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 20 , 32 , and 48 hours . radioimmunoassay of the stable metabolites thromboxane b2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha were used to determine thromboxane and prostacyclin production , respectively . placental thromboxane production was reduced in diabetic animals when compared with control animals ( 5.63 + / - 2.81 vs 7.32 + / - 1.37 pg/mg per hour , respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) . prostacyclin production was also significantly reduced in the diabetic placentas compared with control placentas ( 11.44 + / - 4.06 vs 16.29 + / - 4.59 pg/mg per hour , respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that the ovine placenta produces thromboxane and prostacyclin . the ovine thromboxane production rate is comparable to that of the human placenta but the prostacyclin production rate is approximately two to three times higher . the observed decrease in the placental production of thromboxane and prostacyclin may reflect an adverse effect of hyperglycemia directly on eicosanoid production or indirectly through decreased placental cellular proliferation . 
a rabbit model for bacteria-induced preterm pregnancy loss . bacterial infection has been implicated in premature labor in humans . to elucidate mechanisms and potential intervention strategies , we sought to develop a model of infection-induced pregnancy loss in rabbits . on day 21 ( 70 % of gestation ) , each uterine horn was inoculated hysteroscopically with 0.2 ml containing saline solution of 10 ( 6 ) cfu escherichia coli or bacteroides bivius or fusobacterium necrophorum . fetal viability was assessed . animals were sacrificed at various times or as delivery occurred . serum progesterone and amniotic fluid prostaglandins were measured . cultures and histologic sections were prepared . compared with the saline solution group , e coli and f. necrophorum-inoculated rabbits were significantly more likely to deliver ( 16 of 16 and six of seven with mean times of 31.9 + / - 10.7 and 28.3 + / - 11.5 hours , respectively for e. coli and f. necrophorum ) . positive amniotic fluid cultures for the e. coli group were found in 11 of 12 ( 92 % ) and for the f. necrophorum group in three of three cases ( 100 % ) . histologic inflammation was seen heavily in both the e. coli and f. necrophorum groups , whereas it was absent in the saline solution group . inoculation with b. bivius led to a much lower pregnancy loss rate ( eight of 32 ) and less histologic inflammation despite positive uterine cultures in most animals . this model may provide an opportunity to determine mechanisms of clinical or subclinical intraamniotic infection and to test intervention strategies . 
intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis : induction of chronic arthritis in rats by cell wall fragments from isolated eubacterium aerofaciens strains . the composition of the obligate anaerobic intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) differed from that of healthy subjects ( hs ) . total numbers of aerobes as well as anaerobic coccoid rods were found elevated when compared with hs . eubacterium species were found in all stool samples of both groups ; bifidobacterium species were present in seven ( ra ) and eight ( hs ) out of 10 subjects . from the flora of two ra patients and two hs eubacterium species were isolated and identified . cell wall fragments from four e. aerofaciens strains ( two from ra , two from hs ) were tested for arthritis induction in rats . all four strains induced chronic arthritis which was histologically confirmed . we concluded that in the normal intestinal flora of ra patients eubacterium species are present in high numbers ( i.e. greater than 10 ( 9 ) / g faeces ) ; cell walls from isolated e. aerofaciens strains had arthropathic properties . 
immunologic evidence for the in situ deposition of a cytoplasmic streptococcal antigen ( endostreptosin ) on the glomerular basement membrane in rats . endostreptosin ( ess ) is an antigen derived from the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of nephritogenic group a and to a lesser extent group c and g streptococci . it is immunologically not related to streptococcal exoenzymes or the streptococcal cell wall and can be detected on the endothelial side of the glomerular basement membrane of kidney biopsies of patients with acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( asgn ) during the early phase of the disease . highest and most persistent antibody titers to this antigen are found in patients with asgn . immunoaffinity isolated ess was injected i.v. into the tail vein of wistar furth ( w/fu ) rats for up to five successive days . the animals were sacrificed on days 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 . frozen sections of the rat kidneys were tested by immunofluorescence against rabbit anti-ess-antibody and against sera from patients who had recently recovered from asgn as well as against anti-rat-igg and c3 . the basement membranes of rat kidneys were positive for ess deposition starting from day one on , but were negative for anti-rat igg and c3 during the first four days . rats sacrificed on days 8-12 showed increasing deposition of igg and c3 with decreased staining for ess . the sera of rats sacrificed on days 1-3 had no detectable anti-ess antibodies ; whereas animals from day 4 on had low levels of anti-ess antibodies as determined by microcomplement fixation . control animals showed no staining for ess , igg , c3 as well as no detectable anti-ess antibodies . 
aberrant expression of cytokine genes in peritoneal macrophages from mice infected with lp-bm5 mulv , a murine model of aids . mice infected with lp-bm5 murine leukemia virus ( mulv ) develop a syndrome denoted as murine aids . macrophages harvested from the peritoneal cavities of these mice at 4 or 9 wk postinoculation with lp-bm5 mulv were analyzed by northern hybridization for the presence of the defective lp-bm5 virus and their ability to synthesize various cytokines upon induction with newcastle disease virus ( ndv ) or ( lps ) . neither ifn-alpha or ifn-beta was found to be constitutively expressed in lp-bm5-infected macrophages and in ndv induction studies , and the levels of biologically active ifn-alpha and its mrna were found to be lower in lp-bm5 mulv-infected macrophages than in the macrophages from uninfected controls . similarly , after ndv or lps induction , the levels of tnf mrna and tnf protein were significantly lower in lp-bm5-infected macrophages than in macrophages from uninfected mice . the lp-bm5 mulv-infected macrophages constitutively expressed low levels of il-1 beta , and when induced with lps , the relative levels of il-1 beta were significantly higher in infected than in uninfected macrophages . although no constitutive expression of il-6 was detected , the levels of il-6 mrna induced with ndv were higher in lp-bm5 mulv-infected macrophages than in controls . thus , we found alterations in the expression of selected cytokines in macrophages from mice inoculated with lp-bm5 mulv rather than a general deregulation of all cytokine expression . these results show that macrophages infected with the defective lp-bm5 virus respond differently to ndv - or lps-stimulation and suggest that aberrant expression of certain cytokine genes may play a role in the immunopathologic condition in mice with murine aids . 
cellular and metabolic requirements for induction of macrophage procoagulant activity by murine hepatitis virus strain 3 in vitro . the cellular basis for the variation in induction of monocyte procoagulant activity ( pca ) by murine hepatitis virus strain 3 ( mhv-3 ) was examined using a set of recombinant inbred strains of mice derived from the resistant ( a/j ) and susceptible c57b1/6j ( b ) progenitors . induction of pca by mhv-3 required live virus and host protein and rna synthesis . absolute restriction for induction of pca was observed at the level of the macrophage . peritoneal macrophages from resistant parental a/j and ri strains ( axb5 ) could not be induced to express pca when stimulated by mhv-3 alone or in the presence of lymphocytes from susceptible and h-2 compatible ri mice ( axb3 ) although they did respond to endotoxin ( lps ) . in contrast , macrophages from both susceptible ( axb3 ) and semisusceptible ( axb1 ) ri strains of mice expressed a similar increase in pca after stimulation with mhv-3 in the absence of lymphocytes . the levels of pca expressed by macrophages in the presence of thy-1 .2 + lymphocytes correlated with susceptibility to disease . thy-1 .2 + lymphocytes from susceptible ri axb3 mice could induce levels of pca in macrophages from semisusceptible ri axb1 mice equivalent to that seen in cultures of macrophages and lymphocytes from susceptible mice . further subfractionation of thy-1 .2 + cells demonstrated that l3t4 + cells instructed macrophages to produce pca . thy-1 .2 + cells from mhv-3 immunized resistant axb5 mice , but not from non-immunized mice , were able to suppress induction of pca . this suppressor cell activity could be detected 4 days after immunization , reaching maximal activity at day 7 with significant suppression even at 28 days . the pca was shown to have direct prothrombin cleaving activity ( prothrombinase ) by elisa and immunofluorescence staining using the mab 3d4 .3 . these results demonstrate that induction of a unique pca ( prothrombinase ) is restricted at the level of the macrophage and define a regulatory role for t lymphocytes in its induction . 
pneumococcal pneumonia in a rat model of cirrhosis : effects of cirrhosis on pulmonary defense mechanisms against streptococcus pneumoniae . to study alterations in host defense mechanisms that enhance pneumococcal virulence , a model of streptococcus pneumoniae pneumonia was developed in cirrhotic rats . cirrhosis , with or without ascites , was produced in rats by intragastric administration of carbon tetrachloride ( ccl4 ) . histopathologic and laboratory studies demonstrated that ccl4-induced cirrhosis was similar to alcoholic cirrhosis in humans . cirrhotic rats were more susceptible to type 3 pneumococcal pneumonia induced by intratracheal challenge than controls , and the presence of ascites was associated with the lowest ld50 . more cirrhotic rats with ascites had bacteremia and elevated levels of circulating capsular antigen after challenge compared with cirrhotic rats without ascites or controls . pulmonary clearance of pneumococci was markedly reduced in rats with cirrhosis and ascites and was associated with reduced serum complement levels . this model may be useful in further studies of the pathogenesis and therapy of pneumococcal infections in the compromised host . 
sensitive and specific detection of toxoplasma dna in an experimental murine model : use of toxoplasma gondii-specific cdna and the polymerase chain reaction . toxoplasma gondii , an apicomplexan parasite of mammals and birds , is well recognized as a cause of encephalitis in aids patients and as a cause of congenital infections . the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) and toxoplasma cdna clones were used to diagnose t. gondii infection in an acute murine model of toxoplasmosis . diagnosis of tissue infection by southern blot hybridization with cdna clones of t. gondii was possible within 5 days of infection . this technique could detect as few as 10,000 organisms . specific t. gondii gene amplification by pcr using the primers 5 ' cacacggttgtatgtcggtttcgct3 ' and 5 ' tcaaggagctcaatgttacagcct3 ' followed by oligonucleotide hybridization using 5 ' gcggtcattctcacaccgacggagaaccacttcactctca3 ' allowed detection of t. gondii in the tissue of mice by day 2 after infection and in the blood of mice by day 5 after infection with rh strain t. gondii . this technique could detect as few as 10 organisms . thus , these techniques may be useful in the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis . 
divergent efficacy of antibody to tumor necrosis factor-alpha in intravascular and peritonitis models of sepsis . the role of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) in the lethal consequences of intravascular lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) or escherichia coli sepsis was compared with that in bacterial peritonitis . intravenous administration of e. coli lps or e. coli ( live or dead ) resulted in large transient increases in serum tnf alpha levels , peaking at 90 min at 10,000-30 ,000 units/ml . in contrast , the serum tnf alpha response following the induction of bacterial peritonitis was substantially less , peaking at 200-500 units/ml . sterile peritonitis ( essentially nonlethal ) and bacterial peritonitis ( greater than 60 % lethal ) elevated tnf alpha levels to 1000-2000 units/lavage within the peritoneal cavity 2 h after challenge . passive immunization with neutralizing goat anti-tnf alpha igg improved survival from 8 % to 75 % in rats administered lps intravenously but was completely ineffective in protecting rats from lethal e. coli peritonitis . thus significant differences exist in the role tnf alpha plays in systemic intravascular models of sepsis and bacterial peritonitis . 
tumor-associated neurological dysfunction prevented by lazaroids in rats . the efficacy of u-74006f and u-78517f in the treatment of blood-tumor barrier permeability and tumor-associated neurological dysfunction was evaluated in a brain-tumor model in rats . u-74006f is a 21-aminosteroid and u-78517f is a 2-methylamino chroman . rats with stereotactically implanted walker 256 tumors were treated with methylprednisolone , u-74006f , u-78517f , or vehicle ( 0.05 n hcl ) on days 6 through 10 following implantation . neurological function and vascular permeability were assessed on day 10 . methylprednisolone and u-74006f were equally effective at preventing neurological dysfunction compared to the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) ; u-78517f was slightly less effective than u-74006f and methylprednisolone but was significantly better than vehicle in preventing neurological dysfunction . delivery of methylprednisolone resulted in a significant decrease in tumor vascular permeability ( p less than 0.006 ) while u-74006f and u-78517f had no effect on permeability . this suggests that u-74006f and u-78517f prevented tumor-associated neurological dysfunction by a mechanism other than decreasing permeability in tumor capillaries , and that u-74006f or u-78517f could prove useful in the treatment of brain tumors . 
localization of dystrophin to postsynaptic regions of central nervous system cortical neurons . moderate non-progressive cognitive impairment is a consistent feature of duchenne muscular dystrophy ( dmd ) , although no central nervous system ( cns ) abnormality has been identified . recent studies have elucidated the molecular defect in dmd , including the absence of the protein dystrophin in affected individuals . normal brain tissue contains dystrophin messenger rna and dystrophin is present in low abundance in the brain and seems to be regulated in this tissue , at least in part , by a promoter that differs from that in muscle . until now , antibodies and immunocytochemical methods used to demonstrate dystrophin at the plasma membrane of mouse and human muscle have proven inadequate to localize precisely dystrophin in the mammalian cns . we have now made an antibody ( anti 6-10 ) which is much more sensitive than those previously available to immunolabel dystrophin in the cns . using this antibody , we found that in the mouse , dystrophin is particularly abundant in the neurons of the cerebral and cerebellar cortices , and that it is localized at postsynaptic membrane specializations . dystrophin may have a different role in neurons than in muscle , and an alteration at the synaptic level may be the basis of the cognitive impairment in dmd . 
can insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus be cured or prevented ? a status report on immunomodulatory strategies and pancreas transplantation . the past decade has brought advances in our undestanding of the etiology of beta cell destruction leading to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . most patients have an autoimmune process that begins months or years prior to overt disease . there are now reliable techniques to monitor the inflammatory process , with increasingly accurate methods for predicting disease in susceptible individuals . this information should lead to new techniques that will cure or possibly prevent diabetes . 
efficacy of nimodipine in cerebral ischemia or hemorrhage . our studies showed that in an appropriate dose , nimodipine increased local cerebral blood flow with no corresponding increase in local metabolism . nimodipine treatment given before experimental ischemic insult , resulting from either vascular occlusion or intracranial hemorrhage or after subarachnoid hemorrhage , maintained or improved blood flow and minimized the severity of subsequent brain damage . lack of benefit from nimodipine treatment after the insult may occur because the inexorable progression of events leading to ischemic neuronal damage , once initiated , can not be arrested . on the other hand , pharmacokinetic factors may be important , and post-treatment efficacy may depend on administration protocols that achieve an adequate concentration in ischemic tissue sufficiently soon after an insult . our findings are compatible with the benefit of nimodipine being due to an improvement in blood flow that reduces the severity of ischemia . however , they do not exclude the possibility that treatment may minimize the accumulation of calcium in damaged cells as a result of " cytoprotective " effects . 
effects of the novel thromboxane antagonist bay u 3405 on experimental coronary artery disease . bay u 3405 is a novel thromboxane receptor blocker . the present investigations describe its effects on experimental canine and porcine cardiac damage . in anesthetized dogs , a coronary artery was occluded for 6 hours and reperfused for 30 minutes . bay u 3405 was administered intravenously 15 minutes after occlusion ( 1 mg/kg ) followed by infusion of 10 mg/kg/hr from 30 minutes after ligature . in a second study , the effects of bay u 3405 on endoperoxide analogue u-46619-induced coronary constriction were studied in anesthetized , open-chest pigs . bay u 3405 reduced myocardial infarct expansion by 65 % ( p less than 0.01 ) assessed with biochemical staining . hemodynamics and collateral blood flow were unaffected . however , reperfusion arrhythmias were suppressed . in porcine experiments , 1 mg/kg bay u 3405 , given intravenously or intraduodenally , antagonized u-46619-induced coronary vasoconstriction over 5 hours . the studies demonstrate anti-ischemic and antivasoconstrictor properties of bay u 3405 probably due to binding to platelet and smooth muscle thromboxane receptors . this may have clinical relevance in angina pectoris and myocardial infarction . 
relevance of focal cerebral ischemia models . experience with fibrinolytic agents . despite the limitations of individual ischemia models , experience with fibrinolytic agents suggests that 1 ) early intervention with rt-pa may result in rapid thrombolysis , functional recovery , and decreased mortality in small animal stroke thromboembolism models , 2 ) rt-pa has no general effect on clinical recovery following mca occlusion and reperfusion in the nonhuman primate at dose rates capable of producing very high circulating rt-pa levels , while u-pa has an apparently salutary effect , and 3 ) intravenous infusion of rt-pa or u-pa early after ischemia/infarction in several model systems is not associated with significant intracerebral hemorrhage . the true clinical relevance of these general impressions must await the completion of human studies and studies in well-conceived models designed to define the vascular consequences to be expected from reperfusion achievable with thrombolytic agents . 
a rodent model of cirrhosis , ascites , and bacterial peritonitis . we sought to develop a rodent model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and report here the preliminary results of carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis in which ascites and bacterial peritonitis predictably develop . of 41 rats that survived the initial carbon tetrachloride toxicity , 38 ( 92.7 % ) developed cirrhosis with ascites . of these 38 , 21 ( 55.3 % ) developed 24 episodes of ascitic fluid infection without iatrogenic colonization . no surgically treatable source of infection was identified at autopsy in any rat ; therefore , the infections were presumed to be " spontaneous . " eight ( 50 % ) of the 16 rats with culture-positive ascitic fluid at postmortem examination also had spontaneous pleural fluid infection with the same organism . escherichia coli and proteus sp . were the organisms most commonly isolated . this rodent model of cirrhosis with ascites appears to be the first high-yield animal model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . ascitic fluid infection in these rats resembles ascitic fluid infection in humans . this model will allow further investigation of the mechanisms of pathogenesis of ascitic fluid infection and provide insight into the prevention and treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and pleural fluid infection in patients with cirrhosis . 
swine influenza virus infections . transmission from ill pigs to humans at a wisconsin agricultural fair and subsequent probable person-to-person transmission . in september 1988 , a previously healthy 32-year-old pregnant woman was hospitalized for pneumonia and died 8 days later . the only pathogen detected was an influenza virus antigenically related to the swine influenza virus ( siv ) . four days before illness onset , the patient visited a county fair swine exhibition where there was widespread influenzalike illness among the swine . to detect other persons who were possibly infected by contact with the ill swine , we measured serum siv hemagglutination-inhibition antibody titer in 25 swine exhibitors who were 9 to 19 years old . nineteen ( 76 % ) had siv hemagglutination-inhibition titers of 20 or greater . antibody was undetectable in serum samples from 25 swine exhibitors from a neighboring county . additional studies suggest that one to three health care personnel who had contact with the patient developed influenzalike illnesses with laboratory evidence of siv infection . an outbreak of apparent siv infection in swine resulted in multiple human infections , and , although no recognized community outbreak resulted , there was evidence of virus transmission from the patient to health care personnel . 
coronoid process elongation in rhesus monkeys ( macaca mulatta ) after experimentally induced mandibular hypomobility . a cephalometric and histologic study . the present study provided an experimental model that allowed a cephalometric and histologic analysis of craniofacial growth in monkeys with induced translatory impairment of the mandibular condyle . cauterization was performed anterior to the joint in nine experimental rhesus monkeys , while eight animals served as control subjects . the experimental procedure produced mandibular hypomobility in six animals , in three by means of temporomandibular joint ankylosis and in three by means of dense scar tissue formation anterior to the joint . in the remaining three experimental animals no restriction of mandibular mobility was created . mandibular hypomobility was found to induce elongation of the coronoid process and was also associated with bone deposition in the gonial region . in contrast , normal remodeling of the gonial region was found in the experimental animals with normal range of movements and in the control animals . 
structural alterations of nerve during cuff compression . whether compression nerve injury is due to ischemia , direct mechanical injury , or both remains unsettled . to assess structural changes of nerve during compression , peroneal nerves of rats were compressed at various pressures for different times , and the structural alterations were stopped by simultaneous in situ and perfusion fixation . the structural changes observed during a few minutes of compression can not be explained by ischemic injury because the pathologic alterations characteristic of ischemia take many hours to develop and in any case are different from the ones found here . the pressure - and time-related structural changes observed in the present study under the cuff were ( i ) decrease in fascicular area and increase in fiber density due to expression of endoneurial fluid ; ( ii ) compression and expression of axoplasm , sometimes to the point of fiber transection ; ( iii ) lengthening of internodes ; and ( iv ) obscuration of nodes of ranvier due to cleavage and displacement of myelin and overlapping of nodes by displaced loops of myelin . at the edges of the cuff the changes were ( i ) increase of fascicular area probably from expressed endoneurial fluid ; ( ii ) widening of nodal gaps , perhaps mainly from translocated axonal fluid ; and ( iii ) disordered structure of axoplasm . we suggest that the process of paranodal demyelination and axonal transection are linked , occur during the act of compression , and are due to shear forces . the initial event is expression of endoneurial fluid , followed by compression and expression of axoplasm and cleavage and displacement of layers of myelin . conceivably , with prolonged cuff compression ischemic injury might be found to be superimposed on mechanical injury . 
studies evaluating antioxidants and beta-carotene as chemopreventives . cancer chemoprevention research takes leads from epidemiologic and laboratory research and develops them through in vitro and in vivo preclinical research and initial human studies into randomized controlled clinical trials . at present , the chemoprevention program is sponsoring 21 human efficacy studies . these trials are testing the potential of agents ( beta-carotene , folic acid , 13-cis retinoic acid , 4-hydroxyphenyl retinamide , vitamins c and e , and minerals ) as inhibitors of a variety of cancers in humans ( colon , lung , esophagus , cervix , bladder , and skin ) . endpoints in these studies include overall incidence of cancer , incidence of specific cancers , rate of regression or progression of preneoplastic changes , and changes in cellular or biochemical parameters . study participants include volunteers from the general population ; populations at high risk for cancer because of occupation , lifestyle , or place of residence ; persons with previously treated cancers ; and persons with preneoplastic lesions . study designs include single agent randomization , combination of agents and complete factorial designs . 
interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) induces thrombocytosis in mice : possible implication of il-6 . we administered recombinant human interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) , the common mediator of inflammation process , to c57b1/6 male mice ( 0.5 microgram , every 12 hours over five times ) intraperitoneally and consequently induced a remarkable thrombocytosis . day 1 was designated as the following day of the last injection in the morning . a significant thrombocytosis was observed on days 1 through 5 with a peak on day 2 ( 162 + / - 9 x 10 ( 4 ) / mm3 ) compared with the control mice injected with heated il-1 beta ( 101 + / - 11 x 10 ( 4 ) / mm3 ) . a striking increase in mean size of marrow megakaryocytes was noted on days 1 and 2 . the incorporation of 75se-selenomethionine into circulating platelets as a measure of platelet production was about 2.3 times higher in il-1 beta-treated mice than in control mice . to determine which factor ( s ) is responsible for elicited thrombocytosis , the in vitro studies and bioassays for several hematopoietic factors were performed . il-1 beta by itself did not stimulate megakaryocytopoiesis in vitro , suggesting that the thrombocytosis is attributed to other factor ( s ) via il-1 beta stimulation . serum colony-stimulating factor ( csf ) activity after a single il-1 beta ( 0.5 microgram ) injection , monitored by colony assay with 10 % tested serum , peaked at 3 hours . formed colonies were mostly granulocyte ( g ) and granulocyte-macrophage ( gm ) - types , and studies using rabbit anti-mouse gm-csf serum or using human marrow as target cells showed that the csf activity of the tested serum consisted of , at least , gm-csf and g-csf . addition of il-3 concomitantly with the tested serum gave rise to a greater number of megakaryocytic colonies . serum il-3 , monitored by il-3-dependent cell line 32d clone 5 , and erythropoietin activities were not detected at serum level in il-1 beta-treated mice . serum il-6 assay by il-6-dependent mouse hybridoma cell line mh-60 . bsf2 showed high levels of the tested serum with a peak at 2.5 hours with no detection at 10 hours after the injection . heated il-1 beta caused an increase of neither il-6 nor csf activities . our data suggest that the thrombocytosis induced by il-1 beta is mediated by il-6 or a combination of il-6 and other cytokine ( s ) , and that il-6 may play a regulatory role in platelet production in vivo . 
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart . iii . models of ischemic and hypoxic/ischemic injury in the immature puppy heart . this study compares the metabolic and functional effects of three different models of ischemia in the immature heart . the intent was ( 1 ) to develop a model of energy-depleted and functionally depressed heart to be used in subsequent studies of myocardial protection and ( 2 ) to characterize the biochemical changes following different interventions . forty-five minutes of normothermic global ischemia produced severe depletion of adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate ( greater than 70 % ) but was associated with 85 % + / - 10 % recovery of left ventricular function . postischemic functional depression ( less than 30 % recovery ) could be produced by either ( 1 ) extending the ischemic duration to 60 minutes or ( 2 ) preceding 45 minutes of ischemia by 60 minutes of hypoxic stress ( oxygen tension 25 to 30 mm hg ) . neither of these more severe interventions caused more profound depletion of adenosine triphosphate or creatine phosphate , but hypoxic stress produced marked tissue depletion of glutamate ( 52 % ) and aspartate ( 48 % ) before aortic clamping . longer ischemia or preceding hypoxia led to greater myocardial accumulation of lactate ( greater than 250 versus 104 mumol/gm dry weight ) and succinate ( 18 versus 11 mumol/gm dry weight ) during aortic clamping , p less than 0.05 versus 45 minutes of ischemia ) and greater postischemic depression and amino acid ( greater than 65 % aspartate depletion ) and carbohydrate ( greater than 50 % glycogen depletion ) metabolism , p less than 0.05 versus simple ischemia . these findings suggest that more severe ischemic/hypoxic models are needed in immature hearts to produce functional depression , and the biochemical analyses suggest the characteristics of metabolic defects that must be corrected to resuscitate these hearts during surgical correction of congenital defects . 
studies of myocardial protection in the immature heart . iv . improved tolerance of immature myocardium to hypoxia and ischemia by intravenous metabolic support . thirteen immature puppies ( 2 to 4 kg ) underwent 1 hour of acute hypoxia ( oxygen tension 25 to 30 mm hg ) , followed by 45 minutes of normothermic global ischemia on total vented bypass with normal blood reperfusion . ventricular function was assessed by inscribing starling function curves and measuring stroke work indices before hypoxia and after reperfusion . seven puppies ( control ) received normal saline infusion at 4 ml/kg/hr . six other puppies received a 4 ml/kg/hr intravenous infusion of glutamate/aspartate , glucose-insulin-potassium , mercaptopropionyl glycine , carnitine , and catalase during hypoxia and reperfusion . in control hearts , acute hypoxia depleted myocardial glutamate and aspartate by 52 % ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) and 48 % ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) and caused severe hemodynamic deterioration ( 55 % decrease of stroke work index ) ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) ; three of seven ( 43 % ) required premature institution of bypass . postischemic left ventricular function recovered to only 40 % of control levels ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) . in contrast , intravenous metabolic infusions maintained tissue glutamate ( p less than 0.05 versus control group ) and aspartate ( p less than 0.05 versus control group ) in treated hearts during hypoxia and allowed cardiac index to rise 20 % ( p less than 0.05 versus prehypoxia ) ; all treated hearts tolerated 1 hour of hypoxia , and stroke work recovered 70 % ( p less than 0.05 versus control group ) of stroke work index after subsequent ischemia . impaired tolerance of immature hearts to acute hypoxia and subsequent ischemia is due to substrate depletion . this impairment can be reduced by intravenous metabolic support during hypoxia and reperfusion and leads to improved recovery of postischemic function . 
antifungal and surgical treatment of invasive aspergillosis : review of 2,121 published cases [ published erratum appears in rev infect dis 1991 mar-apr ; 13 ( 2 ) :345 ] no controlled trials of therapy for invasive aspergillosis have been done . this review appraises 2,121 cases reported in 497 articles in the literature and analyzes 440 courses of treatment of infection at various body sites in 379 patients . the exclusion of early failures of therapy skews the results toward a favorable outcome . the rate of response to amphotericin b is 55 % . mortality from pulmonary aspergillosis in bone marrow transplant recipients exceeds 94 % regardless of therapy , as does that from cerebral aspergillosis in all hosts . amphotericin b ( 1 mg / [ kg.d ] ) with flucytosine lowers mortality in neutropenic patients with pulmonary aspergillosis who did not receive a bone marrow transplant ; relapse is common . surgical debridement of aspergillus maxillary sinusitis is usually curative in nonimmunocompromised patients , whereas it increases mortality among neutropenic patients . valve replacement is essential for aspergillus endocarditis . both vitrectomy and intravitreal amphotericin b treatment are essential for aspergillus endophthalmitis . flucytosine is somewhat useful clinically . itraconazole shows efficacy in the treatment of pulmonary , skeletal , and pericardial aspergillosis . although liposomal amphotericin b is less toxic than standard preparations of the drug , relevant data are limited . the proposed potentiation of amphotericin b by rifampin is unsupported by clinical data . despite " conventional " therapy , mortality from invasive aspergillosis remains high ; new approaches must be investigated . 
whipple 's disease can mimic chronic aids enteropathy . previous case reports have demonstrated that the intestinal pathology of mycobacterium avium-intracellulare ( mai ) infection in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) has a light microscopic appearance similar to whipple 's disease . this case report describes a 52-yr-old male patient with a clinical picture suggestive of aids , including diarrhea , weight loss , oral thrush , and intestinal cryptosporidiosis . the intestinal biopsy showed light microscopic features compatible with either mai or whipple 's disease , but electron microscopy confirmed the presence of the whipple bacillus . markers of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection were absent . although immune abnormalities have been reported in whipple 's disease , this is the first report of opportunistic infections complicating this condition . a useful clinical pearl emerges from this and other cases : aids can mimic whipple 's disease ; whipple 's disease can mimic aids . 
wasting and macrophage production of tumor necrosis factor/cachectin and interleukin 1 in experimental visceral leishmaniasis . wasting and secretion of the catabolic cytokines tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) / cachectin and interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) were assessed in weanling syrian hamsters infected with leishmania donovani amastigotes . whereas the mean weight of uninfected animals increased progressively over 9 weeks , the mean weight of infected animals plateaued at 4-6 weeks and then decreased progressively until death . splenic mononuclear cells from control hamsters produced 11.3 + / - 8.3 ( sd ) ng tnf/10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr . tnf secretion in infected animals was greater than the mean + / - 2 sd of controls in 1 of 3 hamsters at 2 weeks post-infection and in 8 of 9 hamsters at weeks 4-8 . the mean tnf secreted by infected animals studied at weeks 4-8 was 371 ( range 28-800 ) ng tnf/10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr ( p = 0.005 ) . control hamsters produced 7.7 + / - 2.7 pg il-1 / 10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr . at 2 weeks , mononuclear cells from 2 of 3 infected animals secreted amounts of il-1 greater than the mean + / - 2 sd of controls . all of 8 infected hamsters secreted increased amounts of il-1 at 4-8 weeks . the mean was 164 ( range 17-370 ) pg il-1 / 10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr ( p = 0.002 ) . in comparison to infected animals , mononuclear cells from control hamsters incubated with lipopolysaccharide , 10 micrograms/ml , produced 172.5 ng tnf and 44.6 pg of il-1 / 10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr . the effect of visceral leishmaniasis on food intake was assessed in a separate group of animals housed individually in metabolic cages . significant reductions in weight and food intake were first observed at 2 and 3 weeks of infection , respectively . by 5 weeks , the food intake of infected animals was 46 % that of controls . syrian hamsters infected with l. donovani provide an excellent model with which to study the mechanism of wasting . 
alterations in collateral blood flow produced by isoflurane in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease . the actions of isoflurane and adenosine on left ventricular myocardial perfusion during a total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and concomitant stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery were investigated in dogs chronically instrumented for measurement of systemic and coronary hemodynamics , regional myocardial contractile function ( via ultrasonic sonomicrometers ) , and myocardial blood flow ( via the radioactive microsphere technique ) . an ameroid constrictor was implanted on the left circumflex coronary artery to produce a slowly progressive stenosis that gradually depleted the coronary reserve of the distal vascular bed . the reductions in reserve were evaluated by daily measurement of baseline left circumflex coronary blood flow velocity and the hyperemic response to injection of adenosine . at a stage of moderate or severe left circumflex stenosis development , the left anterior descending coronary artery was totally occluded via a hydraulic occluder to simulate multivessel coronary artery disease , and control measurements of hemodynamics , regional contractile function , and myocardial blood flow were completed . in separate groups of experiments , either adenosine ( 0.64 and 1.28 mg/min ) or isoflurane ( 1.6-1 .8 and 2.3-2 .5 % , end-tidal ) was administered and measurements remade during steady state hemodynamic conditions . finally , diastolic aortic pressure and heart rate were adjusted to levels present in the control state during administration of adenosine or isoflurane , and additional measurements were recorded . isoflurane reduced mean arterial pressure , left ventricular systolic pressure , and the rate of increase of left ventricular pressure at 50 mmhg ( positive dp/dt50 ) without change in heart rate . administration of isoflurane decreased blood flow in normal , stenotic , and occluded regions ; however , when arterial pressure and heart rate were restored to levels present in the conscious state , myocardial perfusion in all regions was maintained at control levels . ratios of flow between occluded and normal or stenotic zones remained unchanged from the conscious state during a constant aortic pressure and heart rate . similar results were obtained in dogs with either a moderate or severe left circumflex coronary artery stenosis . in contrast , adenosine produced a dose-related decrease in collateral flow and occluded-to-normal or occluded-to-stenotic zone flow ratio . the results of this investigation indicate that adenosine but not isoflurane redistributes blood flow away from collateral-dependent myocardium to other regions in a chronically instrumented canine model of multivessel coronary artery disease . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
survival after hypertonic saline resuscitation from hemorrhage . there has been recent increased interest in hypertonic saline resuscitation from shock and hemorrhage . this study was performed to evaluate the survival effects of hypertonic saline resuscitation . fifty male sprague-dawley rats of average weight of 325 grams were anesthetized with halothane . animals were subjected to blood loss of 21 ml/kg over 5 minutes . intravenous infusion was started 10 minutes after hemorrhage with either lactated ringer 's injection ( 42 ml/kg ) or three per cent nacl ( 10.64 ml/kg ) chosen randomly . these doses provided equal amounts of sodium . at the end of fluid infusion , blood samples were obtained for electrolyte determination . rats were observed 3 days for survival . survival was significantly lower in the three per cent nacl group compared with the lactated ringer 's group . it is probable that worsened outcome with three per cent nacl was associated with intracellular dehydration . 
parapoxvirus infections acquired after exposure to wildlife . the histopathologic and electron microscopic findings in two patients with skin lesions that developed after exposure to deer and other wildlife were consistent with a parapoxviral infection . human infections that were morphologically similar to parapoxvirus infection have been previously described concerning exposure to cervids ( deer and related animals ) . ours are the first reported cases in which viral particles were demonstrated by electron microscopy . 
immunomodulation with pentoxifylline abrogates macrophage-mediated infertility in an in vivo model : a paradigm for a novel approach to the treatment of endometriosis-associated subfertility . although present consensus holds that endometriosis-associated subfertility is the result of an adverse effect of hyperactivated macrophages on early reproductive events , most treatments for endometriosis are directed at the suppression of endometriotic implants . we hypothesized that periovulatory immunomodulation of macrophage activation and inflammatory mediator production might be a more effective approach to this problem . in this experiment , heterologous transfer of activated peritoneal inflammatory cells within a syngeneic strain of mice was used as an in vivo model for the peritoneal inflammatory environment of the endometriosis patient . intraperitoneal transfer of hyperactivated macrophages , but not basal state macrophages , significantly inhibited fertilization . this activity was reversed by periovulatory pentoxifylline treatment . immunomodulation of peritoneal inflammatory cell hyperactivation with pentoxifylline may represent a new modality for the treatment of endometriosis-associated subfertility . 
salt and hypertension -- future directions . the comments that follow reflect the personal views of this author regarding some useful directions of research in the field of salt and hypertension . from a physiological perspective , salt sensitivity is defined , and the merits and limitations of certain animal models of hypertension used to study this issue are discussed . the need to more clearly define the mechanisms that detect sodium intake and control the renal excretion of sodium is discussed . additionally , the need to better understand the relation between sodium homeostasis , volume regulation , and the consequences of dysfunction in these regulatory system on the arterial vasculature and interstitial matrix is emphasized . the necessity for the application of new tools and approaches in a number of investigative areas is discussed . finally , the necessity of equally imaginative whole animal and cell/molecular research and efforts to merge and integrate the data obtained at the cellular level with that of intact systems is emphasized . 
salt and hypertension . lessons from animal models that relate to human hypertension . a high nacl diet can raise blood pressure in both susceptible people and in susceptible animals , and the mechanisms are probably quite similar for both humans and animals . the possibly harmful effects of a high nacl diet are not unexpected since both prehistoric man and mammals evolved in a low nacl world . evolutionary forces molded mammals to adapt well to a low sodium intake ; the modern high nacl intake goes " against the grain " of this adaptation . the high nacl diet can cause premature mortality by raising blood pressure in susceptible people . we have new evidence that in a hypertensive setting , a high nacl diet can increase mortality even though it does not cause a further rise of blood pressure . multiple small cerebral infarcts are a partial cause of this excess mortality . recent evidence also indicates that a high potassium diet reduces the rise of blood pressure caused by a high nacl diet , whereas a low normal potassium intake encourages an nacl-induced rise of blood pressure . it is the combination of kidneys that tends to retain nacl together with a high nacl intake that produces a rise in blood pressure . this combination tends to cause nacl retention , which can trigger a rise in blood pressure in susceptible humans and animals . such a rise in blood pressure can augment renal nacl excretion and regain the previous nacl balance . in the dahl salt-sensitive ( ds ) rat , there are several renal abnormalities that would tend to encourage sodium retention . by analogy , renal " abnormalities " are probably present in people susceptible to hypertension . 
parental mhc molecule haplotype expression in ( sjl/j x swr ) f1 mice with acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis induced with two different synthetic peptides of myelin proteolipid protein . to determine if the ag that induces an autoimmune disease influences parental mhc haplotype molecule expression in situ in mhc heterozygotes , acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis ( eae ) was induced with different encephalitogenic peptides in ( sjl/j x swr ) f1 mice . the mice were sensitized with either a synthetic peptide corresponding to mouse myelin proteolipid protein ( plp ) residues 103-116 yktticgkglsatv which induces eae in swr ( h-2q ) , but not sjl/j ( h-2s ) mice or a synthetic peptide corresponding to plp residues 139-151 hclgkwlghpdkf which is encephalitogenic in sjl/j but not swr mice . mice were killed when they were moribund or at 30 days after sensitization . twelve of 18 f1 mice given plp peptide 103-116 and 12 of 17 mice given plp peptide 139-151 developed eae within 2 to 3 wk after sensitization . cryostat sections of brain samples from f1 and parental mice were immunostained with a panel of mab identifying h-2s and h-2q class i and ii mhc molecules . in brains of controls , class i mhc molecules were expressed on choroid plexus , endothelial cells , and microglia whereas class ii mhc molecules were absent . in eae lesions , class i and ii mhc molecules were present on inflammatory and parenchymal cells , but the degree of parental haplotype molecule expression did not vary with the different peptide ag tested . thus , in ( sjl/j x swr ) f1 mice , myelin plp peptides 103-116 and 139-151 are co-dominant ag with respect to clinical and histologic disease and parental haplotype mhc molecule expression . we propose a unifying hypothesis consistent with these results and previous observations of differential ia expression in ( responder x non-responder ) f1 guinea pigs . we suggest that mhc molecules may bind locally derived peptide ag in inflammatory sites and that these interactions influence levels of mhc haplotype molecules on apc . 
clonotypic analysis of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies from experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis-sensitive lewis rats and experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis-resistant wistar furth rats . a single immunization of lewis rats with purified acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) emulsified in adjuvant typically stimulates the production of oligoclonal achr-reactive antibodies ( as demonstrated by ief ) dominated by the igg2a subclass , of moderate but clonotypically heterogeneous relative ag-binding avidity , and capable of inducing symptoms of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis . although similar immunization of wistar furth rats produces achr-reactive antibodies with similar characteristics of clonotypic heterogeneity , avidity , and isotype expression , no detectable signs of achr-dependent muscle impairment is observed . this contrasts the ability to induce impaired achr function upon the passive transfer of pre-formed lewis anti-achr antibodies into naive wistar furth rats , suggesting that disease resistance in this model is not conferred at the level of the achr itself . moreover , if more aggressive immunization protocols are used ( i.e. , multiple injections of achr ) , a transient breakthrough of achr-dependent muscle dysfunction can be induced directly in the wistar furth strain indicating that the potential for the production of disease-causing antibodies does exist in the wistar furth repertoire . ief analysis of wistar furth anti-achr antibodies has revealed that hyperimmunization results in modified antibody clonotype expression that might explain changing expression of disease symptoms ; however , explanations for the apparent " resistance " of wistar furth rats to disease induction are likely to be complex . 
dystrophin is required for normal thin filament-membrane associations at myotendinous junctions . dystrophin , the deficient gene product in duchenne muscular dystrophy , is located subjacent to the muscle cell membrane at myotendinous junctions , as well as along the entire muscle cell . myotendinous junctions are sites at which thin filaments normally are linked to one another and to the cell membrane , by both lateral and end-on associations between the thin filaments and membrane . the cell membrane at these sites in normal muscle is folded extensively . dystrophic junctions display normal contacts between the ends of thin filaments and subsarcolemmal densities . however dystrophic junctions are deficient in lateral associations between thin filaments and the membrane and display less membrane folding than controls . these structural defects would result in stress concentrations at sites of thin filament attachment to the membrane , which can cause membrane tearing during muscle activation , especially in large-diameter and mature muscle cells . this deficiency in dystrophic myotendinous junction structure may contribute to our understanding of previously unaccountable aspects of the etiology of duchenne muscular dystrophy . 
exudative retinal detachment after photodynamic injury . exudative retinal detachments occur in a variety of retinal and choroidal diseases . we created serous retinal detachment in the cat eye by means of photodynamic injury produced by activation of intravascular rose bengal using filtered , focused light ( 550 nm ) . fluorescein angiography later revealed focal retinal and choroidal vascular occlusion surrounded by a larger area of leakage through the pigment epithelium . serous retinal detachments occurred rapidly , gradually enlarged over the next 3 days , and resolved in all eyes after 14 to 21 days . histopathologic and ultrastructural features of early lesions included the accumulation of proteinaceous fluid in the subretinal space , pigment epithelial cell damage , and localized occlusion of retinal vessels and the choriocapillaris . later changes consisted of limited regeneration of the retina and portions of the tapetum . in several respects , these experimental detachments resemble the serous retinal detachments associated with choroidal ischemia in humans , and may serve as a useful model in the study of choroidal microvascular hypoperfusion . 
platelet-activating factor mediates glycerol-induced acute renal failure in rats . 1 . we have studied the effect of inhibiting the interaction of platelet-activating factor with its receptor by using two structurally different antagonists bn-52021 ( 1 mg/kg , intraperitoneally ) and alprazolam ( 1 and 5 mg/kg , intraperitoneally ) on the evolution of glomerular filtration and renal blood flow , in the experimental model of acute renal failure induced by the intramuscular injection of glycerol in rats . 2 . we have also measured arteriovenous differences in platelet-activating factor concentration , as well as platelet-activating factor content in glomeruli from rats with glycerol-induced acute renal failure . 3 . after glycerol injection , untreated rats showed a marked reduction in inulin clearance which reached 77 % in the first 30 min . the reduction was only 27 % in the rats treated with bn-52021 and 38 % in the rats treated with alprazolam ( 5 mg/kg ) , with statistically significant differences between treated and untreated groups . 4 . clearance of p-aminohippuric acid was also improved with bn-52021 or alprazolam treatment . 5 . this protective effect of bn-52021 was observed in a more prolonged follow-up ( 3 days ) . 6 . glomeruli from rats with acute renal failure , treated or untreated with bn-52021 , showed similar amounts of platelet-activating factor , whereas it was undetectable in glomeruli from normal rats . furthermore , rats with glycerol-induced acute renal failure released greater amounts of platelet-activating factor . 7 . these results provide evidence of a role for platelet-activating factor in the genesis of this model of experimental acute renal failure . 
mucosal peptide hydrolase and brush-border marker enzyme activities in three regions of the small intestine of rats with experimental uraemia . 1 . the activities of nine peptide hydrolases and three non-peptidase brush-border marker enzymes have been quantified in crude homogenates prepared from the proximal , mild and distal regions of small-intestinal mucosa for sham-operated ( n = 9 ) and uraemic ( n = 14 ) rats . abnormalities in enzyme activities were observed in all regions studied in the uraemic group , although no reduction in food intake occurred . 2 . the proximal region of the small intestine from uraemic rats showed a general fall in enzyme activities associated with the brush-border . this fall was combined with a decline in mucosal protein content . in contrast , the mid and distal regions showed increased activity against the dipeptide tyrosyl-glycine . 3 . it is proposed that the fall in brush-border enzyme activities in the proximal small intestine of uraemic rats is a response to the increased water intake associated with this , and presumably other , rat models of uraemia . the increased enzyme activity against tyrosyl-glycine found in the mid and distal regions of the small intestine of uraemic rats may be caused by an increased small-intestinal transit rate , but could be an attempt to maximize tyrosine absorption in response to decreased plasma tyrosine levels . 4 . this study casts doubt on specific activities being the most useful units of enzyme activity , when measured in crude homogenates prepared from the proximal small intestine of uraemic rats . it also demonstrates that enzyme activities measured at a single site in the small intestine of uraemic rats may not be representative of the enzymatic changes occurring in the small-intestinal mucosa as a whole . 
role of influenza b virus in hepatic steatosis and mitochondrial abnormalities in a mouse model of reye syndrome . the hepatic steatosis observed in the influenza b virus mouse model of reye syndrome has been attributed to infectious virus or , alternately , to decreased food intake in the virus-treated mice or impurities in the virus preparation . to resolve this issue , 4 - to 6-wk-old male balb c mice were given , by intravenous injection , 12,800 hemagglutination units of influenza b lee/40 virus in phosphate buffered saline/1 % bovine serum albumin using virus prepared by ultra-centrifugation from infected allantoic fluid , by sucrose density-gradient purification of virus prepared by ultracentrifugation from infected allantoic fluid or by irradiation of virus prepared by ultracentrifugation from infected allantoic fluid to inactivate virus . the infectivity titer of virus prepared by ultracentrifugation from infected allantoic fluid was much higher than that of sucrose density-gradient purified virus prepared from infected allantoic fluid : 50 % egg infectious dose for virus prepared by ultracentrifugation from infected allantoic fluid was 3.9 x 10 ( 4 ) / hemagglutination unit vs. 8.7 50 % egg infectious dose/hemagglutination unit for sucrose density-gradient purified virus prepared from infected allantoic fluid . control mice received phosphate-buffered saline/1 % bovine serum albumin or uninfected allantoic fluid diluted in phosphate-buffered saline/1 % bovine serum albumin . mice were fasted to eliminate dietary variation , and livers were obtained 36 hr after virus administration . of the above treatments , only virus prepared by ultracentrifugation from infected allantoic fluid caused clinical illness and increased hepatic triglycerides ( p less than 0.02 ) compared with controls . hepatic triglycerides in virus prepared by ultracentrifugation from infected allantoic fluid correlated with histopathological vacuolization scores ( r = 0.5773 ; p less than 0.03 ) . 
protection against zosteriform spread of herpes simplex virus by monoclonal antibodies . the in vivo protective role of herpes simplex virus ( hsv-1 ) - specific antibody was analyzed using monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) reactive with discrete antigenic sites on glycoproteins b , c , and d ( gb , gc , gd ) in the murine zosteriform spread model of hsv-1 . all of the anti-gc and anti-gd mabs , and one of four anti-gb mabs ( b6 ) were protective . the in vitro abilities of the mabs to neutralize hsv-1 and mediate antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity ( adcc ) against hsv-1-infected cells were examined as potential mechanistic correlates to in vivo protection . all animals given mabs at high adcc unit doses were protected . some but not all mice given mabs at high adcc unit doses were protected . these studies designate specific epitopes recognized by protective antibodies and indicate that protection from the neurologic spread of hsv may be related to neutralization , adcc , or both . the actual contribution of adcc and neutralization to in vivo antibody-mediated protection remains unclear . 
host genetic influences on fetal susceptibility to murine cytomegalovirus after maternal or fetal infection . genetically determined resistance to murine cytomegalovirus is observed in adult mice and is mediated in part by genes of the h-2 complex , with the h-2k haplotype conferring resistance . this model was used to examine the effect of primary maternal infection on fetal outcome . the severity of fetal growth retardation and death after primary maternal infection on day 8 of pregnancy was found to be genetically determined . fetal viability and weight were significantly lower in infected balb/c mothers ( h-2d ) than in cba ( h-2k ) and balb.k ( h-2k ) mothers . however , fetal infection was not detected , suggesting that the resistance mechanisms operate at the level of the mother or placenta . by directly inoculating fetuses in utero , it was shown that genetic factors in the fetus can influence the level of fetal infection and viability . these results point to the possibility that host genetic factors may modulate maternal and fetal cytomegalovirus infections in humans . 
antipneumococcal activity of ciprofloxacin , ofloxacin , and temafloxacin in an experimental mouse pneumonia model at various stages of the disease . the efficacy of temafloxacin against streptococcus pneumoniae in an experimental murine pneumonia model was compared with that of ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin . erythromycin and amoxicillin were used as reference agents . subcutaneous administration of antibiotics every 12 h for 3 days was initiated at various times after infection . the cumulative survival rates of mice treated with temafloxacin at 50 mg/kg were 100 % , 92 % , 81 % , and 50 % with treatment beginning 18 , 48 , 72 , and 96 h after infection , respectively . the activity of temafloxacin at 50 mg/kg was not significantly different from that of erythromycin and amoxicillin but was superior to that of ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin . the maximum cumulative survival rates of mice treated with ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin at 100 mg/kg were 67 % and 50 % , respectively , with treatment beginning 18 h after infection . treatment with ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin at 50 mg/kg 18 h after infection did not significantly increase survival rates compared with those of untreated controls . 
modulation of bordetella pertussis infection with monoclonal antibodies to pertussis toxin . three monoclonal antibodies to pertussis toxin were characterized and used to investigate its role in immunity . antibody affinity correlated with toxin neutralization in in vivo and in vitro assays but was not the only determinant of protection against bordetella pertussis infection . b9 , a high-affinity anti-s3 antibody , was the most effective in neutralizing toxin-induced cho cell clustering and hemagglutination in vitro and lymphocytosis and histamine sensitization in vivo . a4 , a similar-affinity anti-s1 antibody , was less active in the toxin neutralization assays but more protective in the mouse infection model . a12 , a low-affinity anti-s1 antibody , was least active in the assays of toxin neutralization but as effective as b9 in the infection model . these data suggest that epitopes on the a protomer and b oligomer may induce protective immunity . measurement of pertussis toxin neutralization by monoclonal antibodies in in vitro and in vivo assays may not accurately predict protection against infection with b. pertussis . 
spontaneous neurodegeneration in transgenic mice with mutant prion protein transgenic mice were created to assess genetic linkage between gerstmann-straussler-scheinker syndrome and a leucine substitution at codon 102 of the human prion protein gene . spontaneous neurologic disease with spongiform degeneration and gliosis similar to that in mouse scrapie developed at a mean age of 166 days in 35 mice expressing mouse prion protein with the leucine substitution . thus , many of the clinical and pathological features of gerstmann-straussler-scheinker syndrome are reproduced in transgenic mice containing a prion protein with a single amino acid substitution , illustrating that a neurodegenerative process similar to a human disease can be genetically modeled in animals . 
human immunodeficiency virus infection of human-pbl-scid mice . severe combined immunodeficient ( scid ) mice reconstituted with human peripheral blood leukocytes ( hu-pbl-scid mice ) have inducible human immune function and may be useful as a small animal model for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) research . hu-pbl-scid mice infected with human immunodeficiency virus-1 ( hiv-1 ) contained virus that was recoverable by culture from the peritoneal cavity , spleen , peripheral blood , and lymph nodes for up to 16 weeks after infection ; viral sequences were also detected by in situ hybridization and by amplification with the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) . mice could be infected with multiple strains of hiv-1 , including lav-1 / bru , iiib , mn , sf2 , and sf13 . hiv-1 infection affected the concentration of human immunoglobulin and the number of cd4 + t cells in the mice . these results support the use of the hu-pbl-scid mouse for studies of the pathogenesis and treatment of aids . 
coronary sinus occlusion : effect on ischemic left ventricular dysfunction and reactive hyperemia . pressure-controlled intermittent coronary sinus occlusion ( picso ) has been shown to reduce experimental infarct size . to examine the role of picso in limiting the consequences of brief ischemia on left ventricular function , we studied the effect of picso in nine open-chest anesthetized dogs . picso was performed using a pump-inflated , balloon-tipped catheter in the coronary sinus until coronary sinus occlusion pressure reached a plateau ( 10 + / - 3 seconds ) . the balloon was then rapidly deflated ( 2 seconds ) and the cycle was repeated . regional left ventricular function in the ischemic zone was assessed by sonomicrometry . coronary blood flow was measured with a flow probe around the left anterior descending artery ( lad ) proximal to an occluding suture . measurements were obtained at baseline , during a 3-minute lad occlusion , and for 10 minutes of reperfusion . in an additional five dogs , this sequence was repeated during an infusion of adenosine at a dose that abolished reactive hyperemia following lad occlusion . the addition of picso beginning 15 minutes prior to ischemia and continuing throughout lad occlusion and reperfusion did not prevent , reduce , or shorten ischemic left ventricular dysfunction . picso uniformly blunted reactive hyperemia during reperfusion . however , picso also reduced coronary blood flow during maximal vasodilatation achieved by adenosine infusion prior to lad occlusion . therefore , it is likely that picso decreases reactive hyperemia due to mechanical factors arising from venous engorgement rather than by reducing the ischemic stimulus causing vasodilation . 
effect of hyperkalemia on experimental myocardial depression by verapamil . three patients with systemic hypotension and sinus bradycardia that were initially refractory to conventional therapy responded well to intravenous calcium administration . two-dimensional echocardiography revealed immediate reversal of severe left ventricular dysfunction after intravenous administration of calcium in two instances . common factors were hyperkalemia and verapamil therapy . this interaction was examined further by evaluation of contractility , heart rate , and arterial blood pressure in anesthetized dogs . controls ( n = 9 ) received saline infusion , and a second group ( n = 10 ) received saturated potassium chloride ( approximately 0.2 ml/min intravenously ) . in control dogs , administration of verapamil ( 1195 + / - 181 micrograms/kg intravenously ) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 113 + / - 7 mm hg to 74 + / - 5 mm hg , and heart rate from 147 + / - 9 beats/min to 86 + / - 11 beats/min . potassium chloride infusion alone increased blood [ k + ] from 3.4 + / - 0.1 to 6.2 + / - 0.2 meq/l , but was without hemodynamic effects . in hyperkalemic dogs , a significantly lower dose of verapamil ( 428 + / - 42 micrograms/kg intravenously ) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 102 + / - 8 mm hg to 36 + / - 4 mm hg , and heart rate from 150 + / - 5 beats/min to 104 + / - 15 beats/min . myocardial contractile function was examined with right ventricular isometric contractile force and left ventricular segment length changes . in normokalemic and hyperkalemic groups , contractility was decreased by verapamil . effects of verapamil on arterial pressure and contractility could be reversed significantly by administration of calcium , 0.4 meq/kg intravenously . the present results support the theory that the negative hemodynamic effects of verapamil may be exaggerated to a harmful degree by concomitant hyperkalemia . these adverse events may be reversed by calcium administration . 
the effect of estradiol on the production and secretion of complement component 3 by the rat uterus and surgically induced endometriotic tissue . we have recently demonstrated that glandular epithelial cells isolated from human endometriotic tissue synthesize and secrete complement component 3 ( c3 ) . furthermore , because c3 is capable of producing many of the immunological activities known to be associated with human endometriosis , we studied the production , secretion , and regulation of c3 using the rat model for endometriosis . endometriosis was surgically induced in 20 adult female rats . the animals were then ovariectomized and one half were treated with estradiol ( e2 ) for 3 days . uterine luminal epithelial cells synthesized and secreted c3 only after e2 administration , whereas the uteri from control animals did not produce c3 . in contrast , the ectopic endometrium from control animals produced and secreted c3 , and this expression was strongly upregulated by in vivo e2 administration . we conclude that surgically induced endometriosis in the rat has properties biochemically independent from the intact uterus and may serve as a useful model to further investigate the regulation of c3 synthesis from human endometriosis . 
time-related effects of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog treatment in experimentally induced endometriosis in the rat . the purpose of our study was to characterize the time-dependent effect of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog ( gnrh-a ) therapy on endometriosis explant using the rat model . endometriosis was induced in 60 mature female rats . one group of treated animals as well as controls were killed at 2 , 4 , 6 and 8 weeks of treatment at which time the explant was evaluated . explant volume was significantly reduced in all treatment groups , an effect that was more significant in animals treated for greater than or equal to 4 weeks compared with those treated for only 2 weeks . we conclude that gnrh-a treatment caused gradual regression of endometrial explant that was effectively complete by 4 weeks of treatment . we further conclude that this experimental model may be useful in the evaluation of other modes of endometriosis therapy . 
hypoxia-induced in vivo sickling of transgenic mouse red cells . to develop an animal model for sickle cell anemia , we have created transgenic mice that express a severe naturally occurring human sickling hemoglobin , hb s antilles . due to its low solubility and oxygen affinity , hb s antilles has a greater propensity to cause red cell sickling than hb s. to make transgenic animals that express a high level of hb s antilles , the erythroid-specific dnase i hypersensitive site ii from the human beta-globin cluster was linked independently to the human alpha 2-globin gene and to the beta s antilles gene . embryos were injected with both constructs simultaneously and seven transgenic mice were obtained , three of which contained both the human alpha and the human beta s antilles transgene . after crossing the human transgenes into the mouse beta-thalassemic background a transgenic mouse line was derived in which approximately half the beta-globin chains in the murine red cells were human beta s antilles . deoxygenation of the transgenic red cells in vitro resulted in extensive sickling . an increase of in vivo sickling was achieved by placing these transgenic mice in a low oxygen environment . this murine model for red cell sickling should help to advance our understanding of sickle cell disease and may provide a model to test therapeutic interventions . 
an autosomal recessive gene that delays expression of lupus in bxsb mice . we report the generation and serologic , cellular , histologic , and genetic characteristics of a bxsb/mpjscr substrain , termed bxsb/mpjscr-ll/ll , that has lost early-life male lupus disease . classic genetic analysis suggested that delayed disease expression results from the action of a single autosomal recessive gene . this putative gene , referred to as ll ( long-lived ) , causes a significant delay in expression of autoimmune serology ( total serum igg and anti-nuclear antibodies levels ) , monocytosis , and of immune complex-mediated histopathologic changes such as glomerulonephritis , arteritis , and myocardial infarction . presumably as a consequence of the delayed immunopathology male bxsb/mpjscr-ll/ll mice live three to four times longer than regular bxsb/mpjscr . this strain might be useful for analysis of single genes responsible for severe autoimmune disease expression . 
acquired immune dysfunction in cats with experimentally induced feline immunodeficiency virus infection : comparison of short-term and long-term infections . specific pathogen-free domestic cats with experimentally induced feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) infections of short duration ( less than or equal to 10 months ) exhibited depressed total leukocyte and neutrophil numbers and a marginally decreased lymphocyte proliferative response to pokeweed mitogen ( pwm ) , while cats with infections of more lengthy duration ( greater than or equal to 25 months ) exhibited normal leukocyte and neutrophil numbers but a dramatic loss of responsiveness to both pwm and concanavalin a ( con a ) . cats with short-term infections exhibited a decrease in the percentage of cd4 + lymphocytes in peripheral blood and a corresponding depression of the cd4 + : cd8 + ratio . cats with long-term infections exhibited a similar but more profound perturbation of the cd4 + lymphocyte subset that also included a decrease in the absolute number of cd4 + cells . the decreased responsiveness to con a and pwm in cats infected long term paralleled the decline in cd4 + cell counts , and the duration of infection was directly correlated with the decrease in the percentage of cd4 + cells . these data provide evidence supporting the hypothesis that fiv is the cause of an immune dysfunction in cats , with distinct similarities to that produced by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) in people . 
x-irradiation improves mdx mouse muscle as a model of myofiber loss in dmd . the mdx mouse , although a genetic and biochemical homologue of human duchenne muscular dystrophy ( dmd ) , presents a comparatively mild histopathological and clinical phenotype . these differences are partially attributable to the greater efficacy of regeneration in the mdx mouse than in dmd muscle . to lessen this disparity , we have used a single dose of x-irradiation ( 16 gy ) to inhibit regeneration in one leg of mdx mice . the result is an almost complete block of muscle fiber regeneration leading to progressive loss of muscle fibers and their replacement by loose connective tissue . surviving fibers are mainly peripherally nucleated and , surprisingly , of large diameter . thus , x-irradiation converts mdx muscle to a model system in which the degenerative process can be studied in isolation from the complicating effect of myofiber regeneration . this system should be of use for testing methods of alleviating the myofiber degeneration which is common to mdx and dmd . 
ultrastructure of respiratory cilia of wic-hyd male rats . an animal model for human immotile cilia syndrome . the wic-hyd rat is a mutant from the csk : wistar-imamichi rat , with spontaneous hydrocephalus . in male rats , the hydrocephalus is severe and about one half of hydrocephalic male littermates possess situs inversus totalis . ependymal cilia in these animals are immotile , and this defect is regarded as a mechanical cause of hydrocephalus . this paper presents the ultrastructural features of respiratory cilia in these rats in comparison with those in human immotile cilia syndrome . the respiratory cilia in these rats also are immotile and the dynein arms are missing , as in human cases . previously only eight dogs with immotile cilia syndrome and a mutant hydrocephalic-polydactyl mouse were reported with respect to these phenomena . however the wic-hyd rat is the first useful animal model for human immotile cilia syndrome , and further studies may serve to clarify the genetic background of this condition . 
human atherosclerotic coronary artery xenografts : a model for investigation of transluminal recanalization . a model for testing transluminal recanalization techniques was developed . fragments of human atherosclerotic coronary arteries were transplanted into carotid arteries of dogs and evaluated by angiographic , angioscopic , and histologic study within a three-month period . an inflammatory response was most intense within the first week . by two weeks no inflammation was noted . total occlusion ( n = 13 ) and stenosis ( n = 11 ) of the carotid arteries were achieved without complications . the model is easy to produce within a short period and the arterial occlusion resembles human vascular disease . this model has been used to evaluate laser recanalization of vascular obstructions . 
evaluation of three techniques for documenting staphylococcus epidermidis vascular prosthetic graft infections . staphylococcus epidermidis ( s. epidermidis ) vascular prosthetic graft infections are notoriously hard to detect . three different techniques of determining whether vascular prosthetic grafts were infected using a dog model were evaluated . aortic angiograms were compared with nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) imaging and systemic norepinephrine ( ne ) kinetics to determine if either newer technique would be more reliable than standard angiograms . twelve dogs were randomized to control ( n = 6 ) or infected groups ( n = 6 ) . all dogs had a 5 cm section of their infrarenal aorta replaced with knitted dacron vascular prosthetic graft . the grafts in the infected group were contaminated by soaking them in a broth containing s. epidermidis . ne production and clearance rates were calculated for all animals after an infusion of 3h-ne using the steady-state radionuclide tracer methodology . one week following graft insertion , dogs were reanesthetized , and the 3h-ne infusion and measurements were repeated . standard angiograms and nmr imaging were also performed . once all tests were performed , the prosthetic grafts were removed for cultures . comparisons between the initial and final norepinephrine measurements for each group were made using the nonparametric wilcoxon two-sample test , while comparisons between the groups were made by chi square or the student 's t test . angiogram results were similar for control and infected animals . angiograms missed disruption of the proximal anastomosis found in three of the six infected dogs at graft removal . none of the six control animals , while five of the six infected animals , had localized areas of high signal intensity on nmr imaging ( p less than 0.01 ) suggesting abscess formation . 
effect of oxygen-free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis . sepsis remains a leading cause of death in the surgical intensive care unit ( sicu ) patient following major surgery or trauma . recent work has demonstrated that oxygen-free radicals ( ofr ) generated during sepsis contribute to the pathogenesis of this syndrome . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of various new free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis . a total of 85 male sprague-dawley rats were placed into one of the following treatment groups . control : cecal ligation and puncture ( clp ) ; pre-at : pretreatment with alpha-tocopherol ( at ) 10 mg/100 gm sc x 3 days , and 5 mg/100 gm iv prior to clp ; at : 20 mg/100 gm at time of clp and 4 hours following clp ; u74006f : ( 21-aminosteroid which inhibits lipid peroxidation ) 3 mg/kg iv at the time of and 4 hours following clp ; u78517f : ( alpha-tocopherol analogue ) 3 mg/kg at the time of and 4 hours following clp . survival was determined at various time points up to 72 hours . pretreatment with at resulted in improved survival , whereas the novel ofr scavengers u78517f and u74006f significantly improved survival and were efficacious without pretreatment . it was concluded that ofr scavengers can improve survival in sepsis . 
cowpox/catpox infection . a 19-year-old veterinary nurse developed a cowpox/catpox virus ( cpv ) infection of her right third finger following a scratch from a tom cat suffering from pneumonia . the clinical course and investigation of the infection are described and the differential diagnosis discussed . 
the role of venous hypertension in the pathogenesis of legg-perthes disease . a clinical and experimental study . thirty-two patients in whom legg-perthes disease apparently involved only one hip were examined with venography , measurement of intraosseous and intra-articular pressures , arthrography , and dynamic triphasic bone-imaging with 99mtc methylene diphosphonate . the arterial flow of blood in the affected femoral head was slightly decreased , but the difference from that on the normal side was not statistically significant . however , there was marked disturbance of the venous drainage in the diseased hip , elevated intraosseous pressure in the affected femoral neck , and increased intra-articular pressure in the involved hip compared with the normal side . an animal model was then created in twenty immature dogs , venous drainage was obstructed , and intraosseous pressure of the femoral head and neck was elevated by injection of four milliliters of semiliquid silicone into the femoral neck . in eleven of the dogs , areas of avascular necrosis resembling those associated with legg-perthes disease developed in the femoral head . 
duchenne 's cardiomyopathy in a canine model : electrocardiographic and echocardiographic studies . thirteen dogs affected with x-linked duchenne 's muscular dystrophy and 11 female carrier dogs were studied by electrocardiography ( ecg ) and echocardiography . twelve of the affected dogs were studied as immature animals and followed at 1 to 6 month intervals until they were 7 to 46 months of age . compared with control dogs , affected dogs had significantly increased ( p less than 0.02 ) q/r ratios in ecg leads ii , iii , avf , cv6ll ( v2 ) and cv6lu ( v4 ) . carrier dogs had significantly increased ( p less than 0.02 ) q/r ratios in leads v2 and v4 . the q/r ratio increased in three of six dogs followed up from age 6 months to greater than 2 years . the pr intervals were significantly shorter ( p less than 0.02 ) in affected dogs . ventricular arrhythmias were identified in four of six mature affected dogs . two-dimensional echocardiography revealed distinctive hyperechoic lesions in 12 of the 13 affected dogs and in 6 of the 11 carrier dogs . hyperechoic lesions corresponded to calcified myocardium and surrounding dense connective tissue . this study establishes the dog affected with duchenne 's muscular dystrophy as an animal model of duchenne 's cardiomyopathy and demonstrates that the heart in carrier dogs is affected by the dystrophic process . 
natural evolution of cardiac function , cardiac pathology and antimyosin scan in a murine myocarditis model . serial technetium-99m radionuclide ventriculograms , indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans and tissue biodistribution studies were performed in c3h/he mice with experimentally induced viral encephalomyocarditis and the results were compared with pathologic assessments of myocardial necrosis . postinfection ejection fraction decreased on days 10 ( 20.7 + / - 5.5 % , n = 6 ) , 20 ( 18.6 + / - 15.2 % , n = 5 ) , 30 ( 18.5 + / - 7.7 % , n = 5 ) and 150 ( 30.0 + / - 18.7 , n = 6 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) in comparison with that in uninfected control mice ( 63.3 + / - 3.1 % , n = 6 ) . in the same group of animals , indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans showed intense positive myocardial accumulation on day 10 ( in six of six mice ) and only slight accumulation on day 20 ( in one of five mice ) . in the chronic stage , two of five mice on day 30 and two of six mice on day 150 still showed positive uptake . the antimyosin scan myocardium to lung uptake ratio ( expressed as mean count density [ mean counts/pixel of the region ] ratio ) increased greatly on day 10 ( p less than 0.001 versus values in uninfected control mice ) but not subsequently . biodistribution studies of the indium-111 antimyosin antibody showed that the heart to blood count ratio was significantly higher on day 10 ( p less than 0.001 versus values in control mice ) but not on days 20 , 30 and 150 . pathologic examination showed active and ongoing severe myocardial necrosis with dilated ventricles on day 10 . on day 20 , there was less active necrosis and healing had appeared to begin . on days 30 and 150 , myocardial fibrosis increased . 
the rat lung organotypic culture : an in vitro model for studying surfactant metabolism abnormalities . the amount of surfactant present in the intra-alveolar space is mainly regulated by the synthesis and recycling of surfactant by type ii pneumocytes . biochemical analyses have shown that the surfactant level is frequently diminished and that protein-rich exudate can further interfere with surfactant function in the lungs of adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) patients . the microenvironmental changes that occur in the alveoli of burned patients , who are prone to developing ards , are unclear . therefore , using an in vitro rat lung organotypic culture , we showed that the sera of rats with a 3-day old , third-degree thermal injury ( 25-30 % total body surface area ) inhibited surfactant synthesis in organotypically cultured rat lung cells . surfactant precursor , 3h-choline , incorporation into the surfactant was 58 % of control . using liposomes made of dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylglycerol ( 8:1 , v/v ) or surfactant we showed that surfactant endocytosis by purified type ii alveolar cells is an active , temperature-dependent process , and correlates with the quantity of surfactant present in the milieu . we also found that plasma protein-rich fluid interfered with surfactant endocytosis by the purified type ii pneumocytes . these two processes of inhibition of surfactant synthesis and its reutilization by these cells may contribute to the pathogenesis of ards . 
a study of the effectiveness of the iron-chelating agent deferoxamine as vasospasm prophylaxis in a rabbit model of subarachnoid hemorrhage . the pathogenesis of cerebral vasospasm occurring after subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) is unknown . several lines of experimentation have suggested a free radical mechanism in the etiology of vasospasm . iron is an important catalyst in the generation of free radicals and lipid peroxides in response to tissue injury . we hypothesize that the elaboration of iron from the subarachnoid clot might result in enhanced generation of free radicals and lipid peroxidation . if so , then treatment with deferoxamine , an iron-chelating compound , might reduce the formation of free radicals and thereby ameliorate vasospasm . this hypothesis was examined in a rabbit model of experimental cerebral vasospasm . new zealand white rabbits were divided into the following experimental groups : control ( normal ) animals ( n = 7 ) , control animals treated with deferoxamine ( n = 3 ) , animals subjected to sah and killed on day 2 ( n = 7 ) , animals subjected to sah on day 2 and treated with deferoxamine ( n = 9 ) , animals subjected to sah killed on day 3 ( n = 7 ) , and animals subjected to sah on day 3 and treated with deferoxamine ( n = 7 ) . deferoxamine treatment ( 50 mg/kg/8 hours ) was begun 16 hours before the induction of sah and continued until the animals were killed by perfusion fixation . the basilar artery caliber was assessed using morphometric techniques . the diameter of the basilar arteries in the control animals was 0.64 + / - 0.02 mm . deferoxamine treatment alone did not alter the artery diameter . 
effect of rifabutin on disseminated mycobacterium avium infections in thymectomized , cd4 t-cell-deficient mice . disseminated mycobacterium avium infection is the major cause of bacteremia in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we present here a new animal model of this disease , thymectomized c57bl/6 mice that were intravenously infused with monoclonal antibody to selectively deplete cd4 + t cells . the increased susceptibility of such animals to m. avium infection is comparable to that of c57bl/6 beige mice and thus may provide a viable alternative to the latter model . further , using representative strains of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated m. avium ( serotypes 1 , 4 , and 8 and a rough isolate ) , we show that the course of such infections in thymectomized , cd4-deficient mice can be markedly restrained and in some cases the infections can be sterilized by treatment over a 120-day period with a regimen containing 40 mg of the new antimycobacterial agent rifabutin per kg ( body weight ) . 
deferoxamine and eflornithine ( dl-alpha-difluoromethylornithine ) in a rat model of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . the iron chelator deferoxamine and the polyamine biosynthesis inhibitor eflornithine ( dl-alpha-difluoromethylornithine ) were examined for anti-pneumocystis carinii activity in the rat model of p. carinii pneumonia . the activity of deferoxamine at 250 , 500 , and 1,000 mg/kg given intraperitoneally provides evidence that iron chelation is a promising novel approach to p. carinii chemotherapy . results with eflornithine at 2 , 3 , and 4 % in drinking water confirm and extend previously reported activity in the rat model . 
spontaneous degenerative polyarthritis in male new zealand black/kn mice . histopathologic studies and radiographic analysis revealed that male new zealand black/kn ( nzb/kn ) mice develop degenerative polyarthritis in the joints of the forepaw and hindpaw beginning at age 2 months . deposits of autoantibodies were observed on proliferating collagen fibers , nuclei of chondrocytes , and epidermal cells . increases in the frequency of positivity for rheumatoid factor and anti-type ii collagen antibodies and in the level of serum oxidation activity were noted in these mice . the joint disease in male nzb/kn mice was transferable to female nzb/kn mice and male balb/c mice by intraperitoneal injection of spleen cells from the male nzb/kn mice . this animal model of arthritis will be extremely useful for analyzing not only the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis , but also new strategies for its treatment , since nzb/kn mice , unlike mrl/lpr mice , do not develop severe lupus nephritis or lymph-adenopathy , and therefore have a longer survival period . 
a rat model of esophageal varices . we have developed a new method for inducing portal hypertension and esophageal varices in rats -- partial ligation of the portal vein after devascularization of the circumference of the left renal vein and complete ligation of the portal vein on the fifth day thereafter . thirty rats were separated into groups of 10 , control ( sham operation ) , complete portal ligation only and complete portal ligation plus devascularization . two weeks after the surgery , the presence of esophageal varices in rats with complete portal ligation plus devascularization was confirmed by portography and by the histological findings . the diameter ( mean + / - sd ) of the submucosal veins of the lower esophagus in the complete portal ligation plus devascularization group ( 219.4 + / - 86.6 microns ) was significantly larger than that in the complete portal ligation group ( 99.8 + / - 53.4 microns ) or in the control group ( 30.5 + / - 16.6 microns ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . vascular structures of the lower esophagus closely resembled those in humans with esophageal varices . this new technique is simple , rapid and reliable , and application can be made to various experimental studies on portal hypertension . 
vaccination of cotton rats with a chimeric fg glycoprotein of human respiratory syncytial virus induces minimal pulmonary pathology on challenge . the cotton rat model of human respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) infection was used to study the safety and efficacy of a chimeric fg glycoprotein that was expressed in insect cells using a baculovirus vector . histologic and virologic examination of vaccinated rat lungs was done after challenge with rsv . when rats were challenged 1 month after vaccination , severe pulmonary inflammation characterized by both a mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cell infiltrate and 30 % -40 % involvement of lung tissue was observed with a formalin-inactivated rsv vaccine . the fg glycoprotein induced minimal lung inflammation ( involving 2 % -5 % of the lung ) , while negative controls had 1 % -3 % lung involvement . two doses with as little as 20 ng of fg glycoprotein formulated in an aluminum hydroxide adjuvant completely protected the cotton rats from rsv challenge . thus the chimeric fg glycoprotein is highly immunogenic and induces minimal pulmonary inflammation in the cotton rat model . 
extremely high incidence of antibiotic resistance in clinical isolates of streptococcus pneumoniae in hungary . an epidemiologic survey of antibiotic resistance among pneumococcal isolates collected during 1988 and 1989 in hungary indicated that as many as 58 % of all isolates and 70 % of isolates from children were resistant to penicillin . these figures surpass even the highest values reported thus far for spain and south africa for the same period . almost or more than 70 % of the penicillin-resistant isolates were also resistant to tetracycline , erythromycin , and cotrimoxazole and approximately 30 % to chloramphenicol . intravenous administration of ampicillin ( 30 mg/kg ) did not interfere with the growth in the cerebrospinal fluid of three resistant strains introduced into the rabbit model of experimental meningitis . no resistant strain showed beta-lactamase activity . a representative highly resistant strain contained altered penicillin-binding proteins ( low penicillin affinities and abnormal molecular sizes ) and was also resistant to the lytic and killing effects of penicillin . 
postexposure prophylaxis with zidovudine suppresses human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection in scid-hu mice in a time-dependent manner . occupational exposure to the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) has led to a low but finite incidence of infection among health care providers . in such circumstances , postexposure administration of 3 ' - azido-3 ' - deoxythymidine ( zidovudine ; azt ) might be beneficial . to test this possibility , the scid-hu mouse ( the immunodeficient c.b-17 scid/scid mouse engrafted with human hematolymphoid organs ) was treated with azt at different times after intravenous infection with a standard dose of hiv ( known to infect 100 % of animals ) . if given within 2 h , azt suppressed infection in all animals ; if given after 2 days , no suppression was observed . at least in some animals , an azt-sensitive phase lasted for as long as 36 h. these data support the hypothesis that prompt administration of azt might be efficacious in suppressing acute hiv infection in humans . further studies in the scid-hu mouse might provide insight into treatment protocols of even greater efficacy . 
role of tolerance in cloxacillin treatment of experimental staphylococcus aureus endocarditis . the role of staphylococcus aureus tolerance was investigated in endocarditis in rats . the efficacies of cloxacillin , gentamicin , and a combination of the two were compared for animals infected with a tolerant strain , its kill-sensitive variant , or a nonisogenic nontolerant strain of s. aureus . cloxacillin was significantly less effective for treating the tolerant than for the nontolerant strains . the addition of gentamicin to cloxacillin reduced bacterial numbers in endocardial vegetations for the tolerant strain comparable to the reduction by cloxacillin alone for the nontolerant strains , but had no additional effect for the nontolerant strains . isolates from animals infected with the tolerant or nontolerant strains during antibiotic treatment remained tolerant or nontolerant . these results show that the in vitro phenomenon of tolerance is relevant in vivo . 
effect of indomethacin on the pathophysiology of experimental meningitis in rabbits . the effects of indomethacin on central nervous system abnormalities in rabbits with experimental pneumococcal meningitis were studied . as expected , prostaglandin e2 levels in cerebrospinal fluid were significantly lower in the indomethacin-treated group , indicating that the drug effectively reduced prostaglandin synthesis . brain edema was markedly attenuated in the indomethacin-treated group ; however , cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell counts , lactate and protein concentrations , and intracisternal pressure were not significantly different between groups . it seems that indomethacin , while effective in reducing brain edema , does not significantly affect other important pathophysiologic alterations in experimental pneumococcal meningitis . 
low zinc intake affects maintenance of pregnancy in guinea pigs . zinc deficiency during pregnancy has severe effects in animals . to what extent the effects in animals apply to human pregnancy is not known . because the pregnant guinea pig shares characteristics with pregnant women that make it a useful model , three experiments were done with guinea pigs in which zn intake was reduced beginning on the 30th d of gestation . reduced zn intake in two of the three experiments resulted in abortion or premature delivery . zinc-supplemented animals with feed intake restricted to that of zn-deficient animals also aborted or delivered prematurely . zinc-supplemented animals fed for ad libitum access delivered living young at term . fetal/neonatal liver zn concentration was low in the guinea pigs compared to that reported for other animals and was affected to a lesser extent by low zn intake by the dam . zinc concentration of neonatal plasma was also less than that in several other species . change in activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme with addition of zn in vitro was greater in the plasma of zn-deficient guinea pigs than in that of zn-adequate guinea pigs and may be useful as an indicator of zn status . 
hosts on which nymphal ixodes ricinus most abundantly feed . to identify hosts that may serve as european reservoirs for the agent of lyme disease , borrelia burgdorferi , we determined whether nymphal ixodes ricinus feed mainly on particular mice ( apodemus flavicollis or a. agrarius ) , voles ( clethrionomys glareolus ) or on sand lizards ( lacerta agilis ) and whether the abundance of these hosts corresponds to the seasonal activity of the subadult stages of the vector tick . in all sites , the mice appeared most heavily infested by larvae ; at least seven parasitized each mouse , about three per vole and four per lizard . many fewer nymphal i. ricinus parasitized a. flavicollis and c. glareolus than did larvae . although more than 30 times as many larval than nymphal ticks parasitized the two most abundant hosts ( c. glareolus and a. flavicollis ) , about 15 times as many fed on a. agrarius and twice as many on lizards . nymphal and larval ticks fed on rodents at about the same time . lizards were most abundantly parasitized by nymphs somewhat earlier than by larvae . early in the season of transmission of lyme disease , virtually all a. agrarius as well as lizards were potentially exposed to spirochetes borne by nymphal i. ricinus . we concluded that larval and nymphal i. ricinus differentially parasitize different hosts . because so many of these nymphs feed on them , a. agrarius may more effectively serve as reservoirs for the agent of lyme disease than do other putative reservoir hosts . the presence of lizards may inhibit transmission . 
intestinal cryptosporidiosis : pathophysiologic alterations and specific cellular and humoral immune responses in rnu / + and rnu/rnu ( athymic ) rats . in order to develop an experimental model of symptomatic cryptosporidiosis in an immunosuppressed mammal , we investigated the pathophysiology of infection with cryptosporidium and the humoral and cellular host responses in rnu/rnu ( athymic ) rats and their heterozygous ( rnu / + ) littermates by challenging suckling rats with greater than or equal to 2.5 x 10 ( 6 ) cryptosporidium oocytes oro-gastrically . normal and immunodeficient animals were followed for onset and duration of infection ( fecal oocysts ) , physiologic consequences ( diarrhea , impaired weight gain , brush-border enzyme activities ) , and immunologic response ( both b - and t-lymphocyte-mediated ) . homozygosity for the rnu gene was associated with protracted cryptosporidial infections ; shedding for up to 52 days occurred , and delay in weight gain was noted in rnu/rnu-infected compared with rnu/rnu-uninfected rats ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , cryptosporidial challenge of rnu / + rats resulted in self-resolving infections , occasionally with transient diarrhea lasting four days or less occurring 10-15 days after oro-gastric challenge . the latter animals mounted a cell-mediated immune response to cryptosporidium : three months after challenge , five of five rnu / + rats demonstrated positive skin test responses to a subcutaneous 3.5 micrograms dose of cryptosporidial antigen . further , sera from 6 rnu / + rats taken two to three months after oro-gastric oocyst challenge exhibited specific anticryptosporidial immunoglobulin binding ( a405 = 0.96 ) , compared to that of seven uninfected rnu / + controls ( a405 = 0.09 , p less than 0.02 ) . macromolecules of 150 , 105 , and 88 kd in the cryptosporidium antigen preparation were bound by serum immunoglobulin from previously infected , recovered rnu / + rats . two brush-border enzymes ( lactase and alkaline phosphatase ) were markedly reduced in the ileum 8-10 days after oro-gastric challenge in rats with diarrhea and oocyst shedding . we find the rnu/rnu ( athymic , nude ) rat provides a useful model for study of prolonged cryptosporidial infection with impaired weight loss , brush-border enzyme alteration and intermittent diarrhea . these studies further suggest that a t-lymphocyte population is involved in recovery from cryptosporidium infection and that this recovery is associated with both cellular and humoral immune responses to specific cryptosporidial antigenic macromolecules . this model should open further avenues for the study of the pathogenesis and protective immunity in cryptosporidial infection . 
isoenzyme profiles of four strains of giardia lamblia and their infectivity to jirds . the infectivity to jirds ( meriones unguiculatus ) and the cyst excretion pattern of a recently isolated strain of giardia lamblia from egypt , strain cdc :1088:1 ( egy ) , were compared to those of three well-established strains . all five jirds inoculated orally with strain uno :0487:1 ( uno ) became infected and began excreting cysts 3-6 days post-infection ( dpi ) ; no cysts were detected between 8-12 dpi after which time cysts were produced through day 19 . four of the five jirds infected with strain atcc :30957 ( wb ) and three of the five jirds infected with strain cdc :0284:1 ( va ) excreted cysts from 6-20 dpi and 6-22 dpi , respectively . one of five jirds inoculated with egy excreted cysts on 8 dpi only . at necropsy , trophozoites were recovered from only three uno-infected jirds but from all wb - and va-infected jirds that excreted cysts . the one jird which excreted cysts of egy was negative at necropsy , but egy trophozoites were found in one non-patient jird . isoelectric focusing indicated that these four strains of g. lamblia represented three zymodemes . wb and va were assigned to one zymodeme , egy to a second , and uno , which shared common bands with both other zymodemes , to the third . although the similarities and differences in infectivity and cyst excretion patterns appear to coincide with the zymodemes to which the strains can be assigned , further study is needed to examine the parasitologic behavior of these strains in relation to isoenzyme patterns . 
poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker . phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal , anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals . its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer , safer drugs . we report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache . he developed grand mal seizures , coma , hypotension , respiratory and renal failure , and hepatic injury . serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/ml . the patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis . 
comparison of two doses of endotracheal epinephrine in a cardiac arrest model . study objective : the objective of this study was to measure plasma catecholamine levels and the cardiovascular response before and after endotracheal administration of epinephrine in a swine cardiac arrest model . design : prospective , controlled laboratory investigation . type of participants : twenty-one swine weighing 10 to 12 kg , anesthetized with ketamine and alpha-chloralose and ventilated with room air . interventions : ventricular fibrillation was induced with 90 v of 60 hz current delivered to the right ventricle by transvenous pacemaker . blood samples for epinephrine were drawn before arrest and every two minutes thereafter . at five minutes , external mechanical cardiac compressions were initiated . nine animals received no further therapy and served as controls . two groups of six animals received either 0.01 mg/kg or 0.1 mg/kg of epinephrine through the endotracheal tube at ten and 20 minutes . blood samples were assayed for epinephrine . measurements : arterial blood pressure , lead ii ecg , and plasma epinephrine . main results : swine receiving epinephrine 0.01 mg/kg had an increase in epinephrine levels after drug administration , but these were not significantly different from control levels . the 0.1-mg / kg dose group had a significant increase in plasma epinephrine levels compared with controls and the 0.01-mg / kg dose group after receiving epinephrine at ten and 20 minutes . these increases were from 14 + / - 3 to 215 + / - 40 ng/ml ( + / - sem ) at 12 minutes after arrest and from 151 + / - 56 to 402 + / - 80 ng/ml at 22 minutes after arrest . conclusion : these data suggest that standard dosing of epinephrine through the endotracheal tube during arrest does not produce significant increases in plasma catecholamines or blood pressure . epinephrine 0.1 mg/kg produces a significant increase in plasma epinephrine levels , but it is not sufficient to produce a significant change in blood pressure . 
correction of metabolic acidosis in experimental cpr : a comparative study of sodium bicarbonate , carbicarb , and dextrose . study objective : carbicarb , sodium bicarbonate , and 5 % dextrose were compared for effects on resuscitability in a canine model of electromechanical dissociation after ventricular fibrillation . design/interventions : 21 healthy mongrel dogs were anesthetized with pentobarbital , intubated , and mechanically supported . they were instrumented to measure heart rate , arterial pressure , pulmonary artery pressure , right atrial pressure , cardiac output , and arterial and mixed venous blood gases . the dogs were then subjected to a protocol that consisted of three successive cpr episodes . during each episode they were treated with repeated injections of one of the three substances , randomly chosen . after two minutes of ventricular fibrillation and four minutes of electromechanical dissociation , cpr was started with a thumper ( rate , 60 ; duty cycle , 50 % ) . if recovery was not obtained after five minutes of cpr , 1 meq/kg carbicarb or sodium bicarbonate or 5 ml d5w was injected in the right atrium . half the dose of the same substance was injected every five minutes thereafter ; 1 mg epinephrine was also injected every five minutes until recovery . hemodynamic and gasometric evaluations were performed five and 20 minutes after recovery . this later evaluation served as baseline for the next cpr episode . measurements and main results : the duration and success rates of cpr are similar in the three cpr groups . hemodynamic parameters were also similar during recovery . bicarbicarb and sodium bicarbonate increased bicarbonate levels and corrected ph in the arterial and mixed venous blood . there was no difference in the blood gas values after carbicarb and sodium bicarbonate . conclusion : in this model of cardiac arrest , carbicarb was not superior to sodium bicarbonate in the correction of metabolic acidosis during cpr . 
acceleration of scrapie in trisomy 16 ---- diploid aggregation chimeras . we studied the susceptibility to prion infection of the trisomy 16 ---- diploid chimeric mouse , a putative model of down syndrome . when weanling chimeras were inoculated intracerebrally with scrapie prions , the time until appearance of the first symptoms of scrapie was reduced by 17 days ( from a mean control time of 153 days ) and the time to death was reduced by 30 days ( from control time of 170 days ) . our results with trisomy 16 chimeras argue that the susceptibility to central nervous system degeneration caused by prions can be modulated by chromosome imbalance . 
nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in aids patients . objective -- to describe a nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis during four months after june 1989 . setting -- a department of infectious diseases in copenhagen , seeing about half the patients with aids in denmark . subjects -- 73 hiv antibody negative subjects and 60 antibody positive subjects admitted as inpatients during the transmission period of the outbreak ( 20 june-14 august ) , of whom 18 ( 17 with aids , one with aids related complex ) , developed cryptosporidiosis . two further hiv negative subjects ( one departmental secretary , one visiting relative ) developed cryptosporidiosis . main outcome measures -- cryptosporidia in stool samples , clinical symptoms , cd4 cell count , hiv antigen concentration , chemotherapeutic treatment . results -- the source of the outbreak was identified as ice from an ice machine in the ward , contaminated by an incontinent , psychotic patient with cryptosporidiosis picking out ice for cold drinks . the mean incubation time was at least 13 days-that is , twice that in hiv-negative patients . of the 18 patients with aids who developed cryptosporidiosis , five recovered , two were symptomless carriers , three died of unrelated causes , and eight died after prolonged diarrhoea . among the 57 exposed hiv antibody positive inpatients ( excluding two patients and the index case with cryptosporidiosis diagnosed elsewhere ) , significantly more of those who developed symptomatic cryptosporidiosis received oral sulphonamides than those who did not ( 91 % , 10/11 v 48 % , 21/44 , p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- the clinical and epidemiological findings indicate that infection was the consequence of very small inocula . increased sensitivity to cryptosporidiosis may be an unrecognised side effect of oral sulphonamide treatment in patients with aids . 
myosin expression in hypertrophied fast twitch and slow tonic muscles of normal and dystrophic chickens . disruption of the development program of myosin gene expression has been reported in chicken muscular dystrophy . in the present report , the relationship between muscular dystrophy and the ability of muscle to respond to an increased work load with a transition in the myosin phenotype has been investigated . hypertrophy of slow tonic anterior latissimus dorsi ( ald ) and fast twitch patagialis ( pat ) muscles was induced by overloading for 35 days and myosin expression was analyzed by electrophoresis and immunocytochemistry . normal and dystrophic chicken ald muscles have nearly identical proportions of sm-1 and sm-2 isomyosins and both exhibit an age-related repression of the sm-1 isomyosin which is enhanced and accelerated by overloading . immunocytochemistry with anti-myosin heavy chain ( mhc ) antibodies demonstrates the appearance of nascent myofibers in overloaded ald muscles from both normal and dystrophic chickens . a minor fast twitch fiber population is also identified which doubles in number with overloading in normal ald muscles . there are only half as many fast twitch fibers in control dystrophic ald muscles and this number does not increase with overloading . in contrast to ald muscles , the isomyosin profile of normal and dystrophic pat muscles is quite different . there is significantly more fm-3 and significantly less fm-1 isomyosin in the dystrophic pat muscle . however , both normal and dystrophic pat muscles exhibit an overload-induced accumulation of the fm-3 isomyosin . immunocytochemistry reveals that , unlike the normal pat muscle , the dystrophic pat muscle contains a population of myofibers which express slow mhcs . as in the ald muscle , overload-induced hypertrophy is associated with a repression of the sm-1 mhc in these fibers . nascent myofiber formation does not occur in either normal or dystrophic overloaded pat muscles . 
dystrophin expression in myotubes formed by the fusion of normal and dystrophic myoblasts . mdx mouse dystrophy is characterized by the absence in the muscle cytoplasmic membrane of a high molecular weight protein called dystrophin . a possible avenue for treatment of muscular dystrophies is to inject normal myoblasts in a dystrophic muscle to form hybrid muscle fibers . hybrid myotubes were formed in vitro by the fusion of normal rat and dystrophic mouse ( mdx ) myoblasts . staining with hoechst dye 33258 permitted the clear distinction of mouse and rat nuclei . immunostaining demonstrated that dystrophin was present over the entire membrane of all hybrid myotubes even when nuclei ratio normal/dystrophic was low . 
a mouse model for investigating the molecular pathogenesis of adenovirus pneumonia . intranasal inoculation of type 5 adenovirus ( ad5 ) produced pneumonia in mice even though the virus did not replicate . to induce the pneumonia , however , a large viral infectious dose was required -- i.e. , 10 ( 10 ) plaque-forming units . four strains of inbred mouse were studied ( c57bl/6n , c57bl/10scn , cba/n , and c3h/n ) : all showed similar inflammatory responses , although the greatest infiltration occurred in the c57bl/6n mice . the pathological response to ad5 infection resembled that previously described in cotton rats : it consisted of overlapping early and late phases , and the infiltration contained primarily lymphocytes and monocytes/macrophages with a scattering of polymorphonuclear leukocytes . the prominent early phase and the presence of polymorphonuclear leukocytes suggested that induction of cytokines may play an important role in the pathogenesis of this pneumonia . assays showed the appearance of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) , and il-6 in the infected mouse lungs concomitant with the developing early-phase infiltration . only il-6 was found in the peripheral blood . il-6 reached maximum titers 6-24 hr after infection , whereas maximum levels of tnf-alpha and il-1 were attained 2-3 days after infection . specific rnas for each of these cytokines were demonstrated in the infected lungs . to test the hypothesis that a cytotoxic t-cell response was responsible for the second phase , which primarily consisted of a perivascular and peribronchial infiltration of lymphocytes , ad5 was used to infect c57bl/10scn nu/nu and parent mice . the nude mice showed a normal early-phase response , but essentially no peribronchial and only minimal perivascular infiltrations occurred . 
