rectal examination in general practice objective -- to investigate factors influencing a general practitioner 's decision to do a rectal examination in patients with anorectal or urinary symptoms . design -- postal questionnaire survey . setting -- general practices in inner london and devon . subjects -- 859 general practitioners , 609 ( 71 % ) of whom returned the questionnaire . main outcome measures -- number of rectal examinations done each month ; the indication score , derived from answers to a question asking whether the respondent would do a rectal examination for various symptoms ; and the confidence score , which indicated the respondent 's confidence in the diagnosis made on rectal examination . results -- 279 general practitioners did five or fewer rectal examinations each month and 96 did more than 10 each month . factors significantly associated with doing fewer rectal examinations were a small partnership and being a female general practitioner , and the expectation that the examination would be repeated . lack of time in the surgery , and a waiting time of less than two weeks for an urgent outpatient appointment were also important . general practitioners were deterred from doing rectal examinations by reluctance of the patient ( 278 ) , the expectation that the examination would be repeated ( 141 ) , and lack of time ( 123 ) or a chaperone ( 39 ) . confidence in diagnosis was significantly associated with doing more rectal examinations , the perception of having been well taught to do a rectal examination at medical school , and being a male general practitioner . conclusions -- factors other than clinical judgment influence the frequency of rectal examination in general practice . rectal examination may become commoner with the trend towards larger group practices and if diagnostic confidence is increased and greater emphasis put on rectal examination in undergraduate and postgraduate teaching . 
choice of emergency operative procedure for bleeding duodenal ulcer in a consecutive series of 201 emergency operations in patients with bleeding duodenal ulcer the size of the ulcer was the only factor that showed a significant correlation with the procedure chosen . vagotomy , pyloroplasty and underrunning of the bleeding point was performed in 101 cases with ten deaths ( 10 per cent ) , partial ( billroth ii ) gastrectomy in 81 cases with ten deaths ( 12 per cent ) , and vagotomy and antrectomy in 16 cases with one death ( 6 per cent ) . a patient was more likely to be treated by partial gastrectomy if a giant ulcer with an internal diameter of greater than or equal to 2 cm was found . the results suggest that while vagotomy and pyloroplasty , combined with a direct attack on the bleeding point or excision of an anterior ulcer is an acceptable standard emergency operation for bleeding duodenal ulcer , gastric resection proved to be a satisfactory alternative procedure and should be considered in the technically difficult case with a very large ulcer . a giant ulcer was present in 37 per cent of cases coming to surgery . 
anterior lesser curve seromyotomy and posterior truncal vagotomy versus truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty in the treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer . in a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial , anterior lesser curve seromyotomy with posterior truncal vagotomy ( ampt , n = 77 ) has been compared with truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty ( tvp , n = 69 ) in 146 patients with chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 7 years . the mean follow-up time was 4.5 years with a range of 2-7 years . one elderly patient died from a myocardial infarction in the tvp group . acid secretory inhibition in response to insulin and pentagastrin stimuli was equal in both groups , indicating a similar degree of vagal denervation . recurrent ulcers were more common after ampt ( five ) than tvp ( two ) ( p = 0.29 , n.s. ) . dumping and diarrhoea were significantly commoner ( p less than 0.001 ) after tvp , with 31 instances as opposed to eight with ampt . the mean operating time was increased by 6 min when ampt was performed rather than tvp . the results of this study have shown that ampt is associated with a lower incidence of dumping and diarrhoea and achieves better overall visick grading . however , continued monitoring is required to assess the long-term incidence of recurrent ulceration after this procedure . 
elective resection for diverticular disease of the sigmoid colon . from 1966 to 1987 , 177 consecutive patients were operated on electively for diverticular disease of the sigmoid colon . the indications for surgery were : colovesical fistula ( n = 12 ) , suspicion of residual abscess ( n = 39 ) , two or more previous attacks of acute inflammation ( n = 52 ) , chronic symptoms ( n = 72 ) and suspicion of carcinoma ( n = 2 ) . an abscess was found at operation in 76 patients ( 43 per cent ) and this was extracolic with local peritonitis in 52 patients ( 29 per cent ) . an unsuspected abscess was found in 25 of the 72 patients operated on for chronic symptoms . colonic resection with primary anastomosis was performed in 95 per cent of the 177 patients and in 94 per cent of those 52 patients with an extracolic abscess . there were no postoperative deaths and no clinical anastomotic leakages . long-term results were very good in 85 per cent of the 177 patients and in 82 per cent of the 72 patients operated on for chronic symptoms . the results of this series suggest that a one-stage procedure can be safely performed with some technical precautions in most patients operated on electively for diverticular disease , even if an extracolic abscess is found . the good long-term results in patients operated on for chronic symptoms suggest that such symptoms should be taken into account with respect to surgical indications . 
gracilis muscle transposition for faecal incontinence . transposition of the gracilis muscle for faecal incontinence was performed in 13 patients . six gained satisfactory continence , four were improved , two did not benefit from the operation and one patient died from intercurrent disease before closure of a pre-existing colostomy . anal manometry compared with a control group showed no alteration in resting and pressure at a median of 35 mmhg ( range 5-63 mmhg ) , whereas maximum squeeze pressure increased from a median of 38 mmhg ( range 5-79 mmhg ) to 59 mmhg ( range 10-143 mmhg ) ( p = 0.041 ) which was , however , significantly lower than 130 mmhg ( range 81-236 mmhg ) in the control group . all patients who benefited from the operation had an increase in maximum squeeze pressure . the ability to retain a viscous fluid in the rectum was measured in seven patients , four of whom had gained satisfactory continence and three of whom had improved continence . they were able to retain a median volume of 200 ml ( range 50-225 ml ) without leakage compared with 325 ml ( range 250-400 ml ) in the control group . these patients could retain the maximum amount of viscous fluid for 5-8 min , whereas all control subjects could do so for more than 15 min . it is concluded that , although gracilis transposition never results in normal continence , acceptable continence may be achieved in selected patients provided careful attention is paid to the technical details of the procedure and provided that systematic postoperative exercises are performed . 
pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy : an overview . pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy ( pppd ) was reintroduced 12 years ago . since that time , over 400 patients have undergone pppd with approximately 41 per cent having chronic pancreatitis and 54 per cent having pancreatic and other periampullary malignancies . reported 5-year survivals in this latter group have been comparable to those achieved by the classic whipple procedure . the postoperative mortality rate in 339 reported patients has been 3.8 per cent . postoperative morbidity , including delayed gastric emptying , has been similar to that of the classic whipple operation . however , pppd has been associated with fewer late problems with dumping , diarrhoea , delayed gastric emptying ( 8.6 per cent ) , and marginal ulceration ( 3.6 per cent ) . moreover , most patients undergoing pppd have been able to return to their preoperative and preillness weight . the additional advantage of decreased operative time makes pppd an attractive alternative to the classic pancreatoduodenectomy . 
operative choledochoscopy : common bile duct exploration is incomplete without it . this paper reviews the reported experience of operative choledochoscopy . development of choledochoscopes to the currently available rigid and flexible instruments is described . the collected results of both rigid and flexible choledochoscopy are reported . retained stones occurred in 97 of 2712 stone-positive explorations with the rigid choledochoscope ( 3.6 per cent ) and in 35 of 1726 stone-positive explorations with the flexible choledochoscope ( 2.0 per cent ) . choledochoscopy should now be a mandatory part of common bile duct exploration . 
primary hepatic malignancy : the role of liver transplantation . between january 1982 and april 1989 , 134 patients with a suspected liver neoplasm were referred to the liver unit , queen elizabeth hospital , birmingham . in 105 ( 78 per cent ) , a primary hepatic neoplasm was histologically confirmed , and 47 patients ( 45 per cent ) proved to have primary hepatocellular carcinoma . twenty-nine orthotopic liver transplants were performed in 28 of these patients ( 27 per cent ) . twenty patients ( 71 per cent ) survived 30 days or longer ( median 11.5 months ; range 2-87 months ) , of whom nine are currently alive . we retrospectively analysed our data to determine the influence of preoperative evaluation , histological type and staging on outcome . computed tomography proved to be superior to intraoperative assessment ( 86 versus 58 per cent ) in diagnosing tumour positive nodes . patients with tumour negative lymphadenopathy had a better prognosis . postoperative stage i/ii had a median survival of 16 months ( range 3-87 months ) compared with 7.5 months ( range 2-20 months ) for stage iii . non-cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma had the best prognosis ; cholangiocellular carcinoma and cirrhotic patients with hepatocelluar carcinoma had the worst outcome with no survivors beyond 1 year . because of the advanced stage of disease at the time of presentation , the value of liver transplantation in primary liver cancer is limited . for those presenting with advanced disease confined to the liver ( stage i/ii ) in whom conventional hepatic resection is not possible , significant benefit can be achieved in selected cases . 
mucosal intussusception to avoid ascending cholangitis . many methods have been devised to prevent ascending cholangitis following kasai 's hepatic portoenterostomy for biliary atresia . to investigate the effectiveness of mucosal intussusception in preventing ascending cholangitis , 20 mongrel dogs were randomized to undergo roux-en-y cholecystjejunostomy and common bile duct ligation with or without mucosal intussusception . aeromonas hydrophila was instilled into the gastrointestinal tract . bacterial cultures were grown from samples taken from the gallbladders and lower jejunum , and blood chemistry and barium studies were performed . the barium studies showed satisfactory lack of reflux in all ten dogs with mucosal intussusception . only two of them had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder 3 days after bacterial instillation into the jejunum . all ten dogs in the control group had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder . our results showed that the mucosal intussusception group had a significantly lower rate of recovery of organisms from the gallbladder compared with the control group when the organisms were instilled into distal intestine ( p less than 0.05 ) . the method is worthy of clinical trial as a means of preventing or treating ascending cholangitis . 
gastrointestinal function and structure in hiv-positive patients . we examined 19 patients ( 17 men ) with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and gastrointestinal symptoms to determine whether those symptoms were due to either a gastrointestinal tract infection or a defect in mucosal absorption because of an enteropathy . the erythrocyte folate and serum vitamin b12 levels were within normal limits in all of the patients . the serum ferritin level was elevated in 12 . the xylose absorption test results were abnormal in 8 of the 13 patients able to complete the study . none of the duodenal aspirates yielded a pathogen . light microscopy revealed nonspecific lymphocytic inflammation without infection in the stomach ( in seven patients ) , the esophagus ( in five ) , the duodenum ( in two ) and the rectum ( in two ) . however , biopsy specimens were positive for candida albicans in the esophagus ( four patients ) , cytomegalovirus in the esophagus ( one ) and the rectum ( two ) , helicobacter pylori in the antrum ( two ) , treponema infection in the rectum ( two ) and mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in the small intestine ( one ) . only three patients had a normal series of biopsy specimens . all of the patients had similar ultrastructural changes at the epithelial-stromal junction of the antral glands and in the intestinal crypts . we conclude that abnormal biochemical and endoscopic findings are common in hiv-positive patients with gastrointestinal symptoms . defects in carbohydrate absorption and ultrastructural changes may be responsible for some aspects of hiv enteropathy . 
cancer chemotherapy after solid organ transplantation . to assess how well chemotherapy is tolerated after solid organ transplantation , we reviewed our experience at the children 's hospital of pittsburgh with five patients aged 1 to 12 years . four patients had a liver transplant , indications for which were hepatoblastoma in two patients , hepatic failure secondary to wilms ' tumor chemoradiotherapy in one patient , and familial intrahepatic cholestasis in one patient . a fifth patient received a cardiac transplant for unresectable angiosarcoma of the right atrium . after transplant , chemotherapy was given for the treatment of the primary malignancy in four of the patients . the patient with familial intrahepatic cholestasis received chemotherapy for secondary lymphoproliferative disease that had not responded to the cessation of immunosuppression . all patients other than this patient were on immunosuppression with prednisone ( 0.5 to 2 mg/kg daily ) and cyclosporine ( to maintain serum levels at 800 to 1000 ng/ml radioimmunoassay ) throughout the duration of chemotherapy . courses of chemotherapy included one or more of the following agents : adriamycin ( adr , 20 mg/m2 daily , three patients ) , cyclophosphamide ( ctx , 1 gm/m2 , one patient ) , cisplatin ( cddp , 90 mg/m2 , one patient ) , vincristine ( vcr , greater than 0.75 to 1.5 mg/m2 , three patients ) , actinomycin d ( act-d , 7.5 micrograms/kg , one patient ) , ifosfamide ( i , 1800 mg/m2 , one patient ) and etoposide ( vp-16 , 100 mg/m2 , one patient ) . all patients received greater than or equal to 3 courses ( range , 3 to 9 ; mean , 5 ) of chemotherapy every 3 to 4 weeks . dose reductions were made because of neutropenia in three patients but none were greater than 50 % . severe rejection was seen in one patient who had , however , manifested evidence of rejection prior to his first postoperative course of chemotherapy . no nephro or cardiac toxicity was seen . this preliminary experience suggests that chemotherapy is well tolerated after solid organ transplantation . 
colonic polyamine content and ornithine decarboxylase activity as markers for adenomas . polyamine content ( putrescine , spermidine , and spermine ) or ornithine decarboxylase ( odc ) activity was measured in normal-appearing colonic mucosa from patients undergoing colonoscopy . comparisons were made between those with and those without adenomatous polyps . colonic mucosal polyamine content was measured in 44 persons . mean putrescine content was 1.25 + / - 0.26 ( se ) nmol/mg protein in 22 patients with adenomatous polyps compared with 0.53 + / - 0.12 nmol/mg protein in patients without polyps ( p less than 0.02 ) . tissue content of spermidine and spermine did not differ between these two groups . ornithine decarboxylase activity was measured in tissue from 45 patients . mean odc activity was 2.84 + / - 0.73 pmol/hr/mg protein in 23 persons with adenomatous polyps compared with 1.15 + / - 0.18 pmol/hr/mg protein in persons without polyps ( p less than 0.05 ) . mucosal putrescine and odc activity are elevated in patients with adenomatous polyps compared with patients without polyps . these biochemical markers may prove helpful in improving surveillance methods for colorectal cancer and premalignant adenomatous polyps . 
brush cytology in the diagnosis of colonic neoplasms . during a three-year period ( 1986-1988 ) , 234 colonic brush specimens were received in the authors ' laboratory . nine samples ( 4 % ) were deemed unsatisfactory for evaluation because of inadequate cellularity and/or poor fixation . in 11 cases concomitant or follow-up histologic specimens were not available . the remaining 214 specimens included 82 malignant neoplasms , 88 neoplastic polyps ( adenomas ) , and 44 nonneoplastic lesions . sixty-seven ( 82 % ) of malignant neoplasms were correctly diagnosed by brush cytology . three cases of adenoma with severe dysplasia or in situ carcinoma were diagnosed as adenocarcinoma by cytology . no false-positive diagnoses were made of nonneoplastic lesions . brush cytology was found to be a more sensitive technique in the diagnosis of colon cancer than endoscopic biopsy ( 82 % and 74 % sensitivity , respectively ) . the combination of the two techniques increased the sensitivity to 90 % and improved the overall accuracy of the test . seventy-one ( 82 % ) of the colonic adenomas were correctly diagnosed by cytology . brush cytology is a convenient , safe , and accurate technique which should be used concurrently with endoscopic biopsy or polypectomy . 
the relationship of headache symptoms with severity and duration of attacks . efforts to develop clinically useful headache classification schemes have generally focused on linking specific symptom groupings with specific headache subtypes . an alternative conceptual approach , the " severity model " of headache , considers a continuum of headache ranging from mild to severe forms with specific headache subtypes distinguished by level of severity rather than unique constellations of symptoms . a population-based telephone interview was carried out among 10,169 subjects aged 12-29 to estimate the prevalence of serious headaches and better characterize symptoms that accompany headache attacks . in an analysis of frequency of occurrence , pain and duration of recent ( within 4 weeks prior to interview ) headache attacks , the data revealed that common symptoms ( such as forehead pain and pain in the back of the head , neck and shoulders ) were reported frequently , but headaches with these symptoms were generally characterized by low levels of pain and short duration . although not an original study objective , the data were analyzed to determine whether distinct symptom constellations could be identified or whether symptoms overlapped between headache types . symptoms of migraine were frequently experienced concomitant with tension-type symptoms ; the resultant headaches were usually characterized as moderate in intensity . in contrast , symptoms usually associated with migraine in the absence of concomitant tension-type symptoms were infrequently experienced , but resulted in headaches causing the greatest disability . the data provide some support for the severity model of headache . 
intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity . autologous lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 ( ril-2 ) were administered intraperitoneally ( ip ) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space . ten patients had ovarian cancer , 12 had colorectal cancer , and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma . all ovarian cancer patients , three of twelve colorectal cancer patients , and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy . patients received il-2 100,000 u/kg every 8 hours intravenously ( iv ) for 3 days , and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days . lak cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in il-2 for 7 days and were then administered ip daily for 5 days through a tenckhoff catheter ( davol , inc , cranston , ri ) together with il-2 25,000 u/kg ip every 8 hours . all but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy . toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension , fever , chills , rash , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and distension , diarrhea , oliguria , fluid retention , thrombocytopenia , and minor elevations of liver function tests ; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of il-2 . one patient had a grand mal seizure , and one suffered a colonic perforation ; these were felt to be treatment-related . ip fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients . two of 10 ( 20 % ) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 ( 42 % ) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy - or laparotomy-documented partial responses . we conclude that lak cells and ril-2 can be administered ip to cancer patients , resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy . further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of ip fibrosis and with lower ip il-2 doses is justified by these initial results . 
hepatic venoocclusive disease in autologous bone marrow transplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas . retrospective review of 291 solid tumor and lymphoma patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) was performed to determine the influence of pretransplant characteristics and preparative regimen to the development of hepatic venoocclusive disease ( vod ) . twelve patients ( 4.1 % ) developed a clinical syndrome of right upper quadrant ( ruq ) tenderness or hepatomegaly , jaundice , and ascites , with or without encephalopathy , within 40 days of marrow reinfusion . evidence of metastatic liver disease was the only pretransplant characteristic predictive for vod ( p = .0002 ) . sex , age , histology , hepatitis b serology , and elevated liver function tests were not predictive . no individual preparative agent had a significant effect on the development of vod . however , a single 2-hour infusion of carmustine ( bcnu ) ( greater than or equal to 450 mg/m2 ) led to an increased incidence of vod when compared with the same dose administered in a fractionated schedule ( p = .0258 ) when given with two other chemotherapeutic agents . seven of eight autopsy specimens confirmed the clinical diagnosis of vod . the four patients in whom clinical vod resolved had lower median peak bilirubins ( 7.3 v 15.9 mg/dl ) , lower median peak creatinines ( 2.1 v 4.1 mg/dl ) , and relatively quick engraftment of neutrophils ( mean , 18.7 days ) . one of the four patients in whom vod resolved had other grade 4 ( life-threatening ) toxicities in contrast to eight of eight who succumbed . in summary , vod is an uncommon complication in autotransplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas . our data suggest caution in selecting patients with known metastatic liver disease and consideration of a fractionated bcnu schedule especially in combination with other alkylating agents . 
antagonism of serotonin s3 receptors with ondansetron prevents nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy regimens the control of nausea and emesis in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy poses a significant management problem . in this randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study , we evaluated the effect of serotonin s3 receptor blockade with ondansetron ( gr 38032f ) on the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy . cyclophosphamide was given in doses of 500 to 600 mg/m2 and ondansetron as three intravenous ( iv ) doses of 0.15 mg/kg . most patients had breast cancer . cyclophosphamide was given in combination with doxorubicin ( 65 % of patients ) or with fluorouracil ( 85 % of patients : 50 % with adriamycin [ doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ] and 35 % with methotrexate ) . all placebo-treated patients experienced vomiting , whereas 70 % of patients treated with ondansetron did not vomit ( p = .008 ) . median nausea scores were 8 mm on ondansetron and 65 mm on placebo ( p less than .001 ) . seventy percent of patients treated with ondansetron retained their normal appetite , compared with 10 % of placebo patients . adverse events occurred in six placebo patients and one ondansetron patient . diarrhea and headache were the most common events , both occurring more frequently in the placebo group . there were no extrapyramidal reactions , and the only significant biochemical change occurred in a placebo-treated patient . these results suggest that serotonin s3 receptor antagonists represent a novel , effective , and safe mode of therapy for nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapies . in addition , our observations are compatible with the view that serotonin , acting on s3 receptors , mediates the nausea and emesis occurring after cyclophosphamide chemotherapy . 
a study of htlv-i and its associated risk factors in trinidad and tobago . seroprevalence of human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-i ) among a sample of persons selected from a government register of businesses in trinidad was 3.2 % in 1,025 persons of african descent compared to 0.2 % among 487 persons of asian descent and 0 % among 46 persons of european-descent . in tobago , from a coastal village , among persons of african ancestry ascertained as part of a cardiovascular survey , the rate was 11.4 % , which was significantly higher when corrected for age and race than the rate in trinidad . the seroprevalence rate of antibodies to hepatitis a and b was also significantly elevated in tobago compared to trinidad . htlv-i seroprevalence rates were higher in females than males while hepatitis a and b rates were not significantly different in the two sexes . for males , age was a significant determinant of htlv-i seropositivity , while for females , age , markers of poor sanitation , and hepatitis b were each independently linked to htlv-i seropositivity . the frequent occurrence of multiple infectious exposures in persons of lower socioeconomic circumstances in this tropical environment may result in immune activation that heightens susceptibility to htlv-i infection . 
computed tomographic and ultrasonographic findings in women with acute fatty liver of pregnancy . acute fatty liver of pregnancy is associated with complications that can influence antepartum management and necessitate delivery . to date , liver biopsy has been regarded as the " gold standard " for diagnosis . radiologic evaluation of the liver has been suggested as a less invasive means of diagnosing this entity . five patients with acute fatty liver of pregnancy underwent ultrasonography ; three underwent concomitant computed tomography ( ct ) of the liver . the liver appeared to be normal in all the patients undergoing ct evaluation and all undergoing ultrasonography except one . normal liver examinations are not unusual findings in patients with acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome with splenosis . a case report . this is the first reported case of simultaneously occurring pelvic splenosis and mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome . no other congenital or anatomic abnormalities were observed in the patient , and she had no history of abdominal trauma or surgery . endometriosis was suspected initially during laparoscopy for pelvic pain . after tissue removal at laparotomy , the histologic evaluation established the diagnosis of splenosis . biopsy at laparoscopy should be considered to confirm the diagnosis in the presence of a congenital anomaly and lesions suspected of being endometriotic . 
clinicopathological features of elevated lesions of the duodenal bulb . we present here our findings on patients with an elevated lesion of the duodenal bulb . all these patients were treated in our clinics between the years 1984 and 1988 . these lesions were present in 36 of 8,802 patients who underwent upper gastrointestinal pan-endoscopy . two patients had a duodenal carcinoma , 2 an adenoma , and 1 a brunner 's gland adenoma . there were 15 with a hyperplastic polyp , 3 with a heterogenic gastric mucosa , 3 with brunner 's gland hyperplasia , 6 with duodenitis , and 4 with regenerative mucosa . among these 36 lesions , only 69 % ( 25 lesions ) were evident on the upper gastrointestinal x-ray series . adenoma and brunner 's gland adenoma were of a pedunculated form of the gross type and had an irregular surface mucosa . both duodenal carcinomas were detected by endoscopic biopsy and were resected . histologically , these lesions were limited to the submucosal layer and were of the non-pedunculated polypoid form , but there were no other characteristic endoscopic features , in comparison with other elevated lesions . thus , upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with routine observations of the duodenal bulb plus endoscopic biopsy will lead to a definite diagnosis of these elevated lesions and to the early detection and treatment of this rare malignant lesion . 
long-term results of the belsey mark iv antireflux operation in relation to the severity of esophagitis a retrospective analysis of the results of the belsey mark iv operation has been conducted , relating these to the degree of esophagitis present preoperatively . analysis of 89 patients showed a 91.7 % success rate in patients without esophagitis . good results diminished steadily as the severity of esophagitis increased , giving 76.5 % , 75 % , 66.7 % , and 50 % success rates for first - , second - , third - , and fourth-degree esophagitis , respectively . we believe that shortening of the esophagus is an important factor in this . shortening is obvious in third - and fourth-degree esophagitis but subtle in first - and second-degree esophagitis . we conclude that the belsey operation is adequate for patients without esophagitis , but for patients with any degree of esophagitis more effective reflux control is needed . 
long-term versus short-term treatment with recombinant interferon alfa-2a in patients with chronic hepatitis b : a prospective , randomized treatment trial . we conducted a prospective , randomized trial to study the efficacy and tolerance of long-term versus short-term treatment with recombinant interferon alfa-2a in patients with chronic hepatitis b. ten patients were randomly assigned to a 6-month interferon regimen , and 10 patients were assigned to a 3-week interferon trial . eleven patients ( five assigned to long-term treatment and six to short-term treatment ) did not complete interferon therapy : eight had either severe thrombocytopenia or neutropenia ; one had pronounced fatigue in relationship to administration of interferon ; one had spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and sepsis and died ; and one had a massive fatal variceal hemorrhage during interferon therapy . most of the serious hematologic complications occurred in patients with cirrhosis and hypersplenism . in one patient , seroconversion to hepatitis b virus dna negativity occurred before the onset of treatment . four of the five patients able to complete the 6-month interferon regimen and only one of four patients able to complete the 3-week trial had seroconversion to hepatitis b virus dna negativity . thus , we conclude that the therapeutic response was better among patients who were able to complete a 6-month interferon trial . in patients with cirrhosis and hypersplenism , development of either severe thrombocytopenia or leukopenia associated with interferon therapy precluded completion of treatment . 
unsuspected syphilitic hepatitis in a patient with low-grade proteinuria and abnormal liver function a 25-year-old patient was found to have cholestatic liver enzyme abnormalities during assessment for asymptomatic low-grade proteinuria at the us naval hospital in portsmouth , virginia . these abnormalities persisted for a 6-month period , and an extensive workup , including viral serologic studies , rapid plasma reagin test , iron studies , ceruloplasmin , antimitochondrial , antinuclear , and anti-human immunodeficiency virus antibodies , endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography , and liver biopsy , was unrevealing until serologic tests for syphilis were repeated to evaluate a new onset of urethral discharge . the patient had none of the more characteristic signs of secondary syphilis . the liver enzyme abnormalities rapidly resolved after treatment with penicillin . syphilis remains the great impostor and still must be considered in the differential diagnosis of unexplained liver enzyme abnormalities , even in a patient with no symptoms or signs of early syphilis . 
outbreak of diarrhoea due to escherichia coli o111 : b4 in schoolchildren and adults : association of vi antigen-like reactivity . during six days in november , 1987 , 611 pupils ( age range 7-19 years ) and 39 adults ( 23-57 ) at a school complex in southern finland had diarrhoea due to escherichia coli o111 : b4 . diarrhoea developed in 137 other household members during the two weeks after the school outbreak . the source of the organism remains unknown . the outbreak strains , when incubated at 22 degrees c or exposed to ampicillin , lost the lipopolysaccharide o antigen and began to react with antisera against salmonella typhi vi antigen . the vi antigen-like reactivity increased the adherence of the organisms to hep-2 cells . these results indicate that e coli o111 : b4 , and possibly other enteropathogenic e coli strains , should be considered in the diagnosis of all diarrhoea cases and not only in infantile diarrhoea . expression of vi antigen in e coli may play a part in virulence by enhancing adherence to the intestinal epithelium . 
conservation surgery for glomus jugulare tumors : the value of early diagnosis . the results of lateral cranial base surgery for glomus jugulare tumors are gratifying when normal anatomy and function can be preserved . the goal of conservation surgery is to preserve normal ear anatomy and cranial nerve function . in general , conservation surgery is tumor-size dependent . thus , excellent states of functional recovery depend upon accurate early diagnosis . this paper reviews the technical aspects of transtemporal conservation skull base tumor surgery while also reviewing our experience with nearly 100 glomus jugulare patients . adjuvants to early diagnosis will be highlighted from a review of presenting symptoms , clinical signs , and related diagnosis . our objective is to provoke a high index of suspicion in physicians charged with the responsibility of diagnosing these tumors . diagnostic guidelines are proposed . 
ulcerative colitis and colorectal cancer . a population-based study . background . the risk of colorectal cancer is increased among patients with ulcerative colitis . the magnitude of this increase in risk and the effects of the length of follow-up , the extent of disease at diagnosis , and age at diagnosis vary substantially in different studies . methods . to provide accurate estimates of the risk of colorectal cancer among patients with ulcerative colitis , we studied a population-based cohort of 3117 patients given a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis from 1922 through 1983 who were followed up through 1984 . results . ninety-two cases of colorectal cancer occurred in 91 patients . as compared with the expected incidence , the incidence of colorectal cancer in the cohort was increased ( standardized incidence ratio [ ratio of observed to expected cases ] = 5.7 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 4.6 to 7.0 ) . less extensive disease at diagnosis was associated with a lower risk ; for patients with ulcerative proctitis , the standardized incidence ratio was 1.7 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.8 to 3.2 ) ; for those with left-sided colitis , 2.8 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.6 to 4.4 ) ; and for those with pancolitis ( extensive colitis , or inflammation of the entire colon ) , 14.8 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 11.4 to 18.9 ) . age at diagnosis and the extent of disease at diagnosis were strong and independent risk factors for colorectal cancer . for each increase in age group at diagnosis ( less than 15 years , 15 to 29 years , 30 to 39 years , 40 to 49 years , 50 to 59 years , and greater than or equal to 60 years ) , the relative risk of colorectal cancer , adjusted for the extent of disease at diagnosis , decreased by about half ( adjusted standardized incidence ratio = 0.51 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.46 to 0.56 ) . the absolute risk of colorectal cancer 35 years after diagnosis was 30 percent for patients with pancolitis at diagnosis and 40 percent for those given this diagnosis at less than 15 years of age . conclusions . close surveillance and perhaps even prophylactic proctocolectomy should be recommended for patients given a diagnosis of pancolitis , especially those who are less than 15 years of age at diagnosis . 
the effect of ursodiol on the efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy of gallstones . the dornier national biliary lithotripsy study background . in the treatment of gallstones with extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy , the bile acid ursodiol is administered to dissolve the gallstone fragments . we designed our study to determine the value of administering this agent . methods . at 10 centers , 600 symptomatic patients with three or fewer radiolucent gallstones 5 to 30 mm in diameter , as visualized by oral cholecystography , were randomly assigned to receive ursodiol or placebo for six months , starting one week before lithotripsy . results . the stones were fragmented in 97 percent of all patients , and the fragments were less than or equal to 5 mm in diameter in 46.8 percent . on the basis of an intention-to-treat analysis of all 600 patients , 21 percent receiving ursodiol and 9 percent receiving placebo ( p less than 0.0001 ) had gallbladders that were free of stones after six months . among those with completely radiolucent solitary stones less than 20 mm in diameter , 35 percent of the patients receiving ursodiol and 18 percent of those receiving placebo ( p less than 0.001 ) were free of stones after six months . biliary pain , usually mild , occurred in 73 percent of all patients but in only 13 percent of those who were free of stones after three and six months ( p less than 0.01 ) . there were few adverse events . only diarrhea occurred with a significantly different frequency in the two groups : 32.6 percent were affected in the ursodiol group , as compared with 24.7 percent in the placebo group ( p less than 0.04 ) . severe biliary pain occurred in 1.5 percent of all patients , acute cholecystitis in 1.0 percent , and acute pancreatitis in 1.5 percent ; endoscopic sphincterotomy was performed in 0.5 percent , and cholecystectomy in 2.5 percent . conclusions . extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy with ursodiol was more effective than lithotripsy alone for the treatment of symptomatic gallstones , and equally safe . treatment was more effective for solitary than multiple stones , radiolucent than slightly calcified stones , and smaller than larger stones . 
anatomy of anal sphincters and related structures in continent women studied with magnetic resonance imaging . five anally continent nulliparas of reproductive age were studied with magnetic resonance imaging . the internal and external anal sphincters could be easily delineated , as could the intervening longitudinal musculature , puborectalis muscle , anococcygeal raphe , anorectal lumen , vagina , uterus , bladder , urethra , coccyx , and pubis . the shape of the sphincters was nearly cylindrical , with an anterior component averaging 18.3 mm thick and 28.0 mm long . fifty-four percent of this anterior thickness was attributable to the internal sphincter . the anorectal angle varied considerably , with a mean of 86.8 + / - 19.1 degrees ( range 60-112 ) . the angle between the portion of the rectal lumen supported by the anococcygeal raphe , or levator plate , and the plane of the puborectalis muscle was consistent at 149.0 + / - 6.3 degrees ( 138-154 ) . the finding of anterior anal sphincters with substantial thickness and length contrasts markedly with a view often pictured in the literature of a female anal sphincter that narrows anteriorly to half its posterior length and forms a small bundle of muscle rather than a broad band . knowledge of these relationships is important in primary repair of obstetric sphincter lacerations as well as in surgical correction of anal incontinence . 
methotrexate therapy for persistent ectopic pregnancy after conservative laparoscopic management . persistent ectopic pregnancy is a recognized complication of conservative laparoscopic surgery . three such cases were treated successfully with methotrexate and citrovorum factor rescue . all three patients experienced mild lower abdominal pain for a maximum of 36 hours ; no other adverse effects were noted . more experience with this therapy will be necessary before subsequent fertility rates can be determined . 
congenital chyloperitoneum as a cause of isolated fetal ascites . isolated fetal ascites is an unusual prenatal finding and must be differentiated from immune and nonimmune hydrops . this entity is most commonly associated with gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies . fetal chyloperitoneum , however , should be considered as a possible cause . pulmonary hypoplasia and abdominal dystocia during attempted vaginal delivery are potential complications . we present a case of isolated fetal ascites due to congenital chyloperitoneum . 
rapid intravenous rehydration in the pediatric emergency department children suffering from mild to moderate ( 3 to 6 % ) dehydration likely caused by viral gastroenteritis are often hospitalized because they are unable to tolerate oral fluids . we studied 17 such children , aged one to six years , who were otherwise healthy . all had isonatremic dehydration and were treated with 30 ml/kg of 3.3 % dextrose and 0.3 % saline over a period of three hours in the emergency department before being discharged . no patient required admission to the hospital . only one patient required another course of rapid intravenous rehydration and subsequently improved without hospitalization . although all our patients experienced vomiting before treatment , 65 % had no vomiting after treatment . rapid intravenous rehydration is an effective treatment , for children with mild to moderate dehydration secondary to presumed viral gastroenteritis , that obviates the need for hospitalization . 
hemolytic-uremic syndrome in children . a serious hazard of undercooked beef . hemolytic-uremic syndrome is the leading cause of acute renal failure in childhood . its incidence in north america is increasing . escherichia coli o157 : h7 is the most common infectious trigger and is spread by contaminated beef products as well as from person to person . antibiotics or antidiarrheal medications should not be used in the treatment of e coli hemorrhagic colitis or hemolytic-uremic syndrome . mortality in children with the syndrome has fallen to less than 10 % in north america , largely because of careful attention to nutrition , maintenance of a normal fluid and electrolyte balance , and careful monitoring . education and emotional support of the family are important aspects of the treatment program . 
chest pain in teenagers . when is it significant ? chest pain in teenagers often has no obvious organic cause . onset of symptoms with an emotionally stressful situation may indicate psychogenic chest pain . the differential diagnosis also includes cardiac , musculoskeletal , gastrointestinal , and respiratory disorders . routine testing generally does not help to establish a diagnosis and may even do harm by reinforcing a patient 's unspoken fear of serious illness . most teenagers with chest pain have no such illness , and symptoms usually resolve without therapy . an important role for primary care physicians is to provide support during evaluation and follow-up . 
infectious diarrhea . managing a misery that is still worldwide . infectious diarrhea is the largest single cause of morbidity and mortality in the world . bacteria , viruses , and protozoan parasites are the most common causative agents . treatment in most cases of bacterial and viral diseases consists of correcting fluid loss and electrolyte imbalance by oral or parenteral rehydration . antimicrobial therapy is reserved for very ill patients only . with the exception of cryptosporidium , for which no effective agent is yet available , all protozoan infections are treatable with metronidazole . 
clinical recognition and evaluation of peptic ulcer disease . when a patient has epigastric pain that worsens 1 to 3 hours after meals , the possibility of peptic ulcer disease should be considered . completely typical clinical presentations in patients younger than age 50 justify empirical therapy when no physical or laboratory findings suggest a mimicking disorder . esophagogastroduodenoscopy should be undertaken when response to therapy is incomplete , symptoms recur quickly , or dyspeptic symptoms present for the first time in a patient older than age 50 . when gastric ulcers are diagnosed radiographically , endoscopy and biopsy at multiple sites should be done to exclude malignant disease . intractable duodenal ulcers may necessitate endoscopic biopsy of antral and duodenal mucosa to rule out an associated helicobacter pylori infection , which may modify therapeutic approaches . zollinger-ellison syndrome is rare but should be suspected when ulcer disease presents atypically or aggressively or in families . diagnosis is not difficult to confirm . 
medical treatment and prevention of peptic ulcer disease . many agents seem to be equally effective for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease . this is true despite the drugs ' varied mechanisms of action , and this observation has caused investigators to shift their focus from aggressive to defensive factors when studying ulcer pathogenesis . patients with a healed ulcer are always at risk for recurrence , and guidelines are available for management of these patients . ulcer prevention becomes a crucial issue in intensive care units where critically ill patients have many known risk factors . maintaining a gastric ph above 4.0 appears to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with such stress-induced ulcers . use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs increases ulcer risk and complications in the elderly , in women with rheumatoid arthritis , and in smokers and abusers of alcohol . prophylaxis with the synthetic prostaglandin analogue misoprostol ( cytotec ) appears to reduce this risk . 
hyponatraemia in patients with cirrhosis . hyponatraemia occurs in nearly half of patients in hospital with cirrhosis and ascites , and is due to the excessive retention of free water which results from the kidney 's inability to excrete it normally . the morbidity and mortality associated with hyponatraemia is largely attributable to central nervous system disturbances . the degree to which brain water content increases depends on the duration of hyponatraemia and on compensatory mechanisms . altered steroid and peptide hormones in cirrhotic patients may contribute to the development of hyponatraemic encephalopathy , symptoms of which overlap with hepatic encephalopathy and uraemia . the occurrence of central pontine myelinolysis is unrelated to the rate of correction of hyponatraemia . the appearance of hyponatraemia in cirrhotic patients , long regarded as a poor prognostic sign , may be a function of unrecognized underlying impaired renal function . therapy for hyponatraemia remains suboptimal . 
alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver -- always important ? we have studied the clinical histories and liver biopsy findings in 1951 consecutive adult patients with suspected chronic liver disease , and in four known piz-homozygous alpha 1-antitrypsin-deficient patients with emphysema ( candidates for lung transplant ) and no known liver disease , in order to assess the importance of periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver and their possible causal role in liver disease , and to assess the value of possible screening tests . periportal granules were found in 30 ( 1.5 per cent ) of the 1951 liver biopsies and in all four known piz-homozygous subjects . they were the sole putative aetiological agent in eight of 85 patients ( 9.4 per cent ) with otherwise cryptogenic cirrhosis and present in 2.5 per cent of patients with cirrhosis of known aetiology ( alcohol , autoimmune etc. ) . all but one were z phenotype ( seven homozygotes , 22 heterozygotes ) . alpha 1-antitrypsin granules were seen in 12 patients ( including three of four lung transplant candidates ) with no histological chronic liver disease . determination of serum alpha 1-antitrypsin levels was quite unhelpful in identifying these patients . this study does not support the concept that periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules are necessarily pathogenic , but in some cases they may be causally related to otherwise cryptogenic liver disease . the presence of granules gave no important diagnostic , therapeutic or prognostic information . 
final outcome of ursodeoxycholic acid treatment in 126 patients with radiolucent gallstones . one hundred and twenty-six patients with radiolucent gallstones in ' functioning ' gallbladders were treated with 8-10 mg ursodeoxycholic acid ( udca ) kg/day and followed to a treatment conclusion . complete or partial gallstone dissolution was achieved in 74 ( 59 per cent ) . however , only 22 achieved complete gallstone dissolution , as judged by two normal oral cholecystograms ; ultrasonograms were performed in 16 of these patients , and all were normal . udca was stopped in 76 patients : because of cystic duct obstruction ( n = 12 ) , severe biliary pain ( n = 13 ) , non-response ( n = 25 ) or partial stone dissolution with arrested progress ( n = 26 ) . life-table analysis showed that complete gallstone dissolution rates at four years were 25-30 per cent ( two normal oral cholecystograms ) and 17-19 per cent ( two normal oral cholecystograms plus one ultrasonogram ) . all patients with complete gallstone dissolution had shown partial stone dissolution at 6-12 months ; of those with partial stone dissolution at six months , only 25 per cent went on to complete gallstone dissolution , and then always within two years . efficacy correlated inversely with stone size but not with age , sex , obesity or on-treatment saturation indices . acquired surface gallstone calcification developed in 13 patients ( life-table analysis 22 + / - 7 per cent at four years ) ; none of these patients achieved complete gallstone dissolution and only five achieved partial stone dissolution . thus , despite relatively high partial gallstone dissolution rates , the ultimate efficacy of udca in achieving complete gallstone dissolution is low . 
reactivation of hepatitis b virus replication in patients receiving cytotoxic therapy . report of a prospective study . one hundred chinese patients who received induction cytotoxic therapy for malignant lymphoma were prospectively studied to determine the incidence , morbidity , mortality , and predisposing factors for reactivation of hepatitis b virus replication during cytotoxic therapy . in 18 ( 67 % ) hepatitis b surface antigen-positive and 10 ( 14 % ) hepatitis b surface antigen-negative patients , hepatitis developed during cytotoxic therapy ( p less than 0.0001 ) . hepatitis could be attributed to exacerbation or reactivation of chronic hepatitis b in 13 ( 72 % ) hepatitis b surface antigen-positive patients but in only 2 ( 20 % ) hepatitis b surface antigen-negative patients ( p less than 0.0001 ) . sudden increase or reactivation of hepatitis b virus replication gave rise to icteric hepatitis , nonfatal hepatic failure , and death in 22.3 % , 3.7 % , and 3.7 % of patients who were positive for hepatitis b surface antigen ; in 2 % , 2 % , and 0 % of those positive for hepatitis b antibodies ; and in none of those who were seronegative . among the hepatitis b surface antigen-positive patients , male sex was the only factor that was associated with an increased risk of reactivation of hepatitis b virus replication . we recommend that hepatitis b surface antigen-positive patients with malignancies receiving cytotoxic therapy be closely monitored . 
prophylaxis of uric acid stones with alternate day doses of alkaline potassium salts . uric acid stone formation ordinarily is prevented by increases in the urinary ph after meals . this postprandial alkaline tide is lost in patients who make such calculi . single dose , alternate day administration of an alkaline potassium salt will increase urinary ph and simulate this normal physiological mechanism . an important part of the regimen is patient self-monitoring to verify that the urinary ph increases to greater than 6.8 , 1 1/2 to 2 hours after the medication is taken . in contrast to multiple dose daily regimens , this mode of base administration is tolerated better and easier to follow . in 17 patients , 7 with the recurrent gravel/colic syndrome and 10 with prior stones , this regimen abolished calculus formation during an average followup of 2 1/2 years . however , further studies are needed before this regimen can be recommended as standard therapy for uric acid stone prophylaxis . 
safety of same-day sequential extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and dissolution of gallstones by methyl tert-butyl ether in dogs . passage of stone fragments after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) of gallstones has resulted in biliary colic , duct obstruction , and pancreatitis in some patients . rapid dissolution of these fragments with methyl tert-butyl ether ( mtbe ) may prevent such side effects and achieve complete clearance of gallstones within hours rather than several months to a year or longer . this study examines the safety of same-day eswl fragmentation and mtbe dissolution of surgically implanted human gallstones in 15 dogs . the animals were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups to assess mtbe absorption from the gallbladder and to observe hematology and chemistry profiles after 0 , 400 , and 1,200 shock waves from a lithotriptor followed by mtbe dissolution therapy . they were sacrificed either immediately after treatment ( 12 dogs ) or 2 weeks later ( 3 dogs ) . the results demonstrated that although eswl causes moderate trauma to the gallbladder , this did not result in increased mtbe absorption or histologic evidence of mucosal disruption . blood profiles demonstrated an increase in only the level of aspartate aminotransferase . the three dogs that were sacrificed 2 weeks after the combined treatment had no residual evidence of gallbladder injury or remaining stone material . in all animals , severe injury occurred where shock waves passed through lung or air-filled colon . this study suggests that same-day sequential fragmentation of gallstones by eswl followed by dissolution of stone fragments with use of mtbe may be associated with only mild to moderate and reversible gallbladder trauma and can rapidly achieve clearance of gallstones . 
familial occurrence of inflammatory bowel disease . background and methods . we assessed the familial occurrence of inflammatory bowel disease in copenhagen county , where there has been a long-term interest in the epidemiology of such disorders . in 1987 we interviewed 662 patients in whom inflammatory bowel disease had been diagnosed before 1979 , asking whether their first - and second-degree relatives had this disorder . ninety-six percent of the patients ( 504 with ulcerative colitis and 133 with crohn 's disease ) provided adequate information . results . as compared with the general population , the first-degree relatives of the 637 patients with ulcerative colitis or crohn 's disease had a 10-fold increase in the risk of having the same disease as the patients , after standardization for age and sex . the risk of having the other of the two diseases was also increased , but less so , and the increase in the risk of having crohn 's disease was not significant in the relatives of patients with ulcerative colitis . the risk of ulcerative colitis in first-degree relatives of patients with ulcerative colitis appeared to be virtually independent of the generation to which the first-degree relative belonged and of the sex of the patient and the relative . the risk of ulcerative colitis in first-degree relatives tended to be higher if the disease had been diagnosed in the patient before the age of 50 , but the risk seemed to be independent of the current age of the relatives . the prevalence of the same disease as that of the patient ( either ulcerative colitis or crohn 's disease ) among second-degree relatives was increased ; the prevalence of the other disease was not increased . conclusions . the 10-fold increase in the familial risk of ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease strongly suggests that these disorders have a genetic cause . 
appendectomy in primary and secondary staging operations for ovarian malignancy . appendectomy was performed at primary or secondary staging operations in 100 patients with ovarian malignancies . of 80 patients who underwent appendectomy at the time of their primary surgery , 25 ( 31.2 % ) had appendiceal metastases . among 47 patients who were believed to have disease limited to the pelvis at the time of surgery -- stage i ( n = 34 ) , ii ( n = 7 ) , iiia ( n = 5 ) , and those designated stage iiic solely on the basis of microscopic para-aortic nodal metastasis ( n = 1 ) -- the appendix was involved with disease in only two patients ( 4.3 % ) . however , among 33 patients with advanced disease -- stage iiib ( n = 6 ) , iiic except those designated iiic solely on the basis of microscopic paraaortic nodal metastasis ( n = 19 ) , and iv ( n = 8 ) -- the appendix was involved with disease in 23 patients ( 69.7 % ) ( p less than .001 ) . poorly differentiated tumors and serous histologic cell types more frequently metastasized to the appendix ( 64 , 15 , 6 , and 8 % for grades 3 , 2 , and 1 and borderline histology , respectively ; p less than .001 ; and 48 , 13 , and 8 % for serous , endometrioid , and mucinous ; p less than .001 ) . of 20 patients who underwent appendectomy at their secondary staging procedure , two had metastases . metastatic disease in the appendix was microscopic in nine of 27 patients . because the frequency of appendiceal metastasis is similar to that of other metastatic sites in stages i and ii ovarian cancer , it should be removed at primary staging procedures . appendectomy should also be performed in patients with advanced ovarian malignancies if it contributes to cytoreduction or at the time of secondary staging procedures . 
hepatocellular carcinoma within siderotic regenerative nodules : appearance as a nodule within a nodule on mr images . large regenerative nodules in cirrhotic livers may accumulate iron and develop internal iron-poor foci of hyperplasia or malignancy . magnetic resonance examinations were performed on 23 patients with biopsy-proved cirrhosis . a " nodule-within-nodule " appearance was noted in two patients . this appearance consisted of markedly low intensity of a large nodule on gradient-echo images , with one or two internal foci that were isointense to the liver . each of the large nodules was 2 cm in diameter , and each of the internal foci was less than 1 cm . serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were normal in both patients . aspiration biopsy performed in one patient failed to show malignancy , but histologic confirmation of hepatocellular carcinoma was obtained eventually in both cases . the nodule-within-nodule sign , which reflects the unique histopathology of hepatocellular carcinoma in large siderotic regenerative nodules , is strongly suggestive of early hepatocellular carcinoma , even if serologic markers and biopsy results do not support this diagnosis . 
retained intrahepatic stones : treatment with piezoelectric lithotripsy combined with stone extraction . extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) was performed in 11 patients with oriental cholangiohepatitis and intrahepatic stones associated with segmented strictures of intrahepatic ducts . all patients had previously undergone biliary surgery and basket extraction via a t-tube tract at the time of lithotripsy . the indication for eswl was failure of , or anticipated difficulty with , basket extraction of the stones via a t-tube tract . a piezoelectric lithotriptor was used in all procedures . the average total number of shock waves administered was 29,756 ( range , 10,000-61 ,395 ) . the average number of treatment sessions was 3.1 ( range , 1-6 ) ; the number of shock waves used in a single session ranged from 10,000 to 15,000 with a frequency of five shots per second and 30 % -50 % power . in six patients , the stones were successfully fragmented and completely removed ; in three of the others of the stones were fragmented and removed . the overall success rate , including complete ( 54 % ) and incomplete ( 27 % ) success , was 82 % . difficulty in targeting stones , and severe strictures and deformities of intrahepatic ducts , were the factors responsible for failure . no significant complications were observed . 
esophageal inflammation and stricture : complication of chronic granulomatous disease of childhood . esophagitis in children with immunodeficiency is most commonly due to opportunistic infection . the authors describe three patients with chronic granulomatous disease ( cgd ) of childhood who developed esophageal strictures that were believed to be complications of the primary disease . at radiologic examination , all three patients initially had a focal narrowing of the upper thoracic esophagus . endoscopy showed no signs of opportunistic infection or barrett esophagus . biopsy of the strictures in two patients revealed findings consistent with cgd . in two of the three patients , inflammation extended to involve the middle and distal esophagus . long-term response to balloon dilation was poor in the first two patients . the third patient was lost to follow-up after a partial clinical and radiographic response to dilation . 
bleeding gastroesophageal varices : gastric vein embolization after partial portal decompression . shunts that decompress the portal vein are effective in the treatment of bleeding esophageal varices . use of large-caliber portacaval shunts , however , results in the complete decompression of the portal system and the risk of subsequent development of hepatic encephalopathy . use of small-caliber portacaval shunts results in mild portal hypertension and less frequent hepatic encephalopathy but may increase the risk of recurrent bleeding . thirty-three patients underwent angiography after partial decompression portacaval shunting ( median trans-shunt pressures , 8 mm hg ) . embolization of residual varices , noted in 13 patients , was performed . results included one complication with no sequelae and no bleeding a mean of 13 months after the procedure was performed . trans-shunt embolization of esophageal varices effectively prevents bleeding varices after partial portal decompression . 
oral cholecystography in contemporary gallstone imaging : a review . the introduction of nonoperative alternatives to elective cholecystectomy in the management of gallstones has resurrected use of oral cholecystography ( ocg ) . this article reviews basic principles involved in the proper performance of ocg and interpretation of the resulting images . the role of ocg in the current management of gallstones is discussed . 
pharynx : value of oblique projections for radiographic examination . the utility of oblique views for augmenting standard posteroanterior and lateral double-contrast radiography of the pharynx was examined . over an 8-month period , two oblique views were added to the standard posteroanterior and lateral views of the pharynx during routine upper gastrointestinal studies in 102 patients divided into two groups . group 1 consisted of 81 patients without suspected pharyngeal or esophageal disease who demonstrated what was considered to be normal anatomy on all radiographic views . group 2 consisted of 21 patients who were known or suspected to have pathologic abnormality of the pharynx . the members of this latter group each demonstrated various abnormal pharyngeal anatomy on the standard views . in just over half of these cases the oblique projection contributed significant information not obtained with conventional views . therefore , the authors conclude that oblique images are a beneficial addition to the diagnostic evaluation of patients highly suspected of having pharyngeal disease . 
detection of gastric erosions : comparison of biphasic radiography with fiberoptic endoscopy . biphasic radiography was compared with fiberoptic endoscopy in detecting gastric erosions in a prospective , blinded study of 385 patients with dyspepsia . because no absolute standard was available for the comparison , since histologic confirmation of all erosions was not possible , the kappa statistic was used to compare results from both modalities . flat ( incomplete ) erosions were detected with endoscopy only and were considered to be present in 42 patients ( 11.2 % ) . varioliform ( complete ) erosions were identified with both radiography and endoscopy in 12 patients ( 3.2 % ) . for the detection of varioliform erosions , a substantial agreement beyond chance between both modalities was found ( kappa = 0.73 ; standard error , 0.12 ) . thus , flat erosions were detected with endoscopy only , whereas state-of-the-art radiography and endoscopy were equally sensitive for detecting varioliform erosions . histologic confirmation of erosions was obtained in only 75 % of the patients . it is unknown whether the demonstration of erosions with radiography and/or endoscopy correlates with dyspepsia . 
liver and pancreas : improved spin-echo t1 contrast by shorter echo time and fat suppression at 1.5 t. t1-weighted spin-echo magnetic resonance ( mr ) images have had limited soft-tissue contrast at 1.5 t. the authors investigated the effects of echo-time ( te ) minimization and fat suppression on mr images of the liver and pancreas . two sets of mr images were obtained with identical repetition times and other parameters . in 10 subjects with seven liver lesions , images with tes of 20 and 12 msec were compared . in 18 additional subjects with seven liver lesions and five pancreatic carcinomas , images with identical tes but with and without fat suppression were compared . contrast-to-noise ratios ( cnrs ) were greater with a te of 12 msec than with a te of 20 msec for liver versus spleen ( 7.6 vs 4.9 , p = .014 ) and liver versus lesion ( 6.9 vs 3.9 , p = .031 ) . in patients without fatty liver , cnr for six lesions versus liver was greater ( 9.5 vs 6.0 , p = .014 ) with fat suppression . cnr between glandular pancreas and cancer was most conspicuous with fat suppression , but fat planes were less distinct . minimization of te improves t1-weighted images significantly . fat suppression also improves cnr , but the disadvantages of fat suppression do not allow elimination of conventional t1-weighted images . 
pancreatic cancer versus chronic pancreatitis : diagnosis with ca 19-9 assessment , us , ct , and ct-guided fine-needle biopsy . the authors prospectively performed serum ca 19-9 assessment , ultrasound ( us ) , computed tomography ( ct ) , and ct-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) of the pancreas in 81 consecutive patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis or pancreatic neoplasm . the final diagnosis was pancreatic cancer in 54 patients and chronic pancreatitis in 27 patients . ca 19-9 assessment , us , ct , and fnab were considered nondiagnostic , respectively , in 0 % , 25 % , 19 % , and 6 % of cases . when a definite diagnosis was rendered , the positive predictive value was 90 % for ca 19-9 assessment , 95 % for us , 98 % for ct , and 100 % for fnab ; the negative predictive value was , respectively , 69 % , 95 % , 86 % , and 100 % . the accuracy of all diagnostic and nondiagnostic studies was 81 % for ca 19-9 assessment , 72 % for us , 77 % for ct , and 94 % for fnab . it is concluded that ct-guided pancreatic fnab is the most reliable examination for enabling differential diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and chronic pancreatitis . when the pancreas is well visualized at us , the negative predictive value for pancreatic cancer is more accurate than that of ca 19-9 assessment and ct . 
resting and total energy expenditure in patients with inflammatory bowel disease . patients with inflammatory bowel disease often present with weight loss . among possible causes , an elevated energy expenditure has frequently been suggested but is the least documented . in this study resting metabolic rate ( rmr ) and total daily energy expenditure ( tdee ) were measured in 15 outpatients with inflammatory bowel diseases and in eight healthy control subjects . measured rmr as a percentage of that predicted from fat-free mass was not significantly different for control subjects ( 102 + / - 9.8 % , mean + / - sd ) and patients ( 100 + / - 13.3 % ) . tdee , expressed as a multiple of rmr , was 1.70 + / - 0.31 for control subjects and 1.78 + / - 0.24 for patients . when patients were subgrouped as greater than or equal to 90 % or less than 90 % desirable body weight , a mean increase over rmr predicted from fat-free mass was seen in the underweight patients ( 106 + / - 9.3 % ) but not in normal-weight patients ( 99.0 + / - 15.6 % ) . mean tdee/rmr values for the patient subgroups were 1.70 + / - 0.30 and 1.88 + / - 0.08 , respectively . we conclude that stable outpatients with inflammatory bowel disease have only a minimal increase in energy needs . 
factors affecting the enterohepatic circulation of oral contraceptive steroids . oral contraceptive steroids may undergo enterohepatic circulation , but it is relevant for only estrogens , because these compounds can be directly conjugated in the liver . animal studies show convincing evidence of the importance of the enterohepatic circulation , but studies in humans are much less convincing . the importance of the route and the rate of metabolism of ethinyl estradiol are reviewed . some antibiotics have been reported anecdotally to reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptive steroids , but controlled studies have not confirmed this observation . although gut flora are altered by oral antibiotics , the blood levels of ethinyl estradiol are not reduced , and one antibiotic at least ( cotrimoxazole ) enhances the activity of ethinyl estradiol . 
gastrointestinal disease and oral contraception . oral contraceptive steroids play a major role in modern family planning . with the present tendency to decrease the doses of both estrogens and progestogens , any factor that reduces the bioavailability of the lower-dose preparations may have an impact on contraceptive protection . although ethinyl estradiol , the most commonly used oral estrogen , is liable to an enterohepatic circulation as unchanged drug , the commonly used progestogens are not . at present , no convincing evidence exists in the human subject that disruption of the enterohepatic circulation by antibiotics or antacids does reduce contraceptive efficacy of the pill . oral contraceptive steroids are mainly absorbed from the small bowel , and contraceptive efficacy depends on its absorptive capacity . enhanced passage of gastrointestinal contents or impaired absorption may thus contribute to contraceptive failures in patients who have chronic inflammatory disease , diarrhea , ileostomy , or jejunoileal bypass . 
oral contraception in disease states . oral contraceptives are clearly contraindicated in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease , ischemic heart attack , or cerebral stroke . patients requiring long-term anticoagulant treatment can be treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs to prevent ovulation , because ruptured follicles can cause massive intraperitoneal bleeding . patients with essential hypertension and severe liver diseases should also discontinue treatment 4 weeks before major elective surgery . migraine and diabetes mellitus are regarded as relative contraindications , depending on the individual situation . long-term diseases , such as crohn 's disease , epilepsy , and sickle cell anemia , also require individualized consultation . 
efficacy of ephedrine in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting . although reported in the aerospace literature and anecdotally by anesthesiologists , the putative antiemetic effect of ephedrine remains unquantitated . we therefore prospectively studied ephedrine as an antiemetic agent in the perioperative setting in 97 patients undergoing general anesthesia for outpatient gynecologic laparoscopy . patients were assigned in a double-blind randomized fashion to receive a standardized general anesthetic followed by an intramuscular dose of either ephedrine ( 0.5 mg/kg ) , droperidol ( 0.04 mg/kg ) , or saline before the conclusion of surgery . nausea , retching , or vomiting , as well as the degree of sedation and discharge times , were assessed in the recovery room and for 24 h postoperatively . ephedrine was found to have a significantly antiemetic effect ( p less than 0.05 ) when compared with placebo and an antiemetic effect similar to that of droperidol . sedation scores were also significantly less in the ephedrine group than in both placebo and droperidol groups . finally , variations in mean arterial blood pressure among the three groups were not statistically significant . we conclude that ephedrine is an effective antiemetic agent with minimal sedative side effects in patients undergoing outpatient laparoscopy . 
which clinical variables predict an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result ? objective : to determine the relations among patient history , symptoms , objective indicators , and abnormal double-contrast barium enema results in outpatients . patients and setting : seven hundred and ninety-four patients receiving care in a large multispecialty medical group . design : physicians completed a form before ordering a double-contrast barium enema , listing information about patient history , symptoms , and objective findings , including the results of a complete blood count , stool hemoccult , and sigmoidoscopy . measurements and main results : outcome measures were colon cancer and any abnormal finding . the results of 18.6 % of the barium enemas were abnormal . the most frequent positive findings were of polyps ( 8.8 % ) and colon cancer ( 2.9 % ) . over 50 % of the barium enemas were ordered solely on the basis of symptoms , yet there was no statistical correlation between symptoms and colon cancer or any positive finding . using logistic regression , four variables were shown to be significant predictors of colon cancer ( p less than 0.05 ) : abnormal sigmoidoscopy , iron deficiency anemia , positive stool hemoccult results , and relevant history . the respective odds ratios of these variables were 3.76 ( 95 % ci , 2.89 to 4.90 ) ; 2.86 ( ci , 2.13 to 3.74 ) ; 1.87 ( ci , 1.46 to 2.39 ) ; and 1.91 ( ci , 1.44 to 2.52 ) , respectively . in a patient without any of these indicators , the predicted probability of having colon cancer was only 0.7 % . in a patient with at least two objective indicators , the probability of having colon cancer was greater than 15 % . conclusions : symptoms without objective indicators or pertinent risk factors do not correlate with an abnormal double-contrast barium enema result . objective indicators are useful predictors of an abnormal barium enema result , particularly when looking for colon cancer . 
the effect of ambulation on recovery from postoperative ileus . to determine whether ambulation hastens recovery from ileus following laparotomy , 34 patients were studied , 10 of whom followed an ambulatory regimen beginning on postoperative day 1 ( group a ) . the other 24 patients ( group c ) did not become ambulatory until postoperative day 4 . all patients underwent placement of seromuscular bipolar recording electrodes on the roux limb , if present , stomach , jejunum , and colon at laparotomy . group a was recorded before and after ambulation so comparisons could be made to determine if ambulation had an acute effect on myoelectric activity . group a preambulation and group c recordings were compared to judge whether there was an over-all effect of ambulation on myoelectric recovery . no effect on slow wave frequency or percentage of slow waves with associated spike potentials was noted acutely or overall in the stomach , colon , or jejunum in continuity with the duodenal pacemaker . transient increases in phase ii spike activity in patients having a roux limb and their jejunum distal to the enteroenterostomy were noted on postoperative days 1 to 2 , but these differences resolved by postoperative days 3 or 4 . the data suggest that ambulation as a means to help resolve postoperative ileus and its accompanying cramps and bloating may be more perceived than real . 
efficacy of octreotide acetate in treatment of severe postgastrectomy dumping syndrome . the present study evaluates the acute and chronic use of a long-acting somatostatin analog , octreotide acetate , in the treatment of patients with severe postgastrectomy dumping syndrome . in the acute phase , 10 patients with severe dumping were studied over 2 consecutive days before and for 3 hours after the ingestion of a ' dumping breakfast ' in a randomized double-blind fashion . on one day octreotide ( 100 micrograms ) was given subcutaneously 30 minutes before the test meal and on the other day an equal volume of vehicle was injected . an additional group of six postgastrectomy patients without dumping were studied in a similar fashion and these acted as controls . during placebo treatment the test meal resulted in an immediate increase ( p less than 0.01 ) in the pulse rate and in plasma levels of glucose , glucagon , pancreatic polypeptide , neurotensin , and insulin . similar changes were seen in the control group with respect to placebo ; however glucagon and neurotensin ( p less than 0.05 ) did not show the same magnitude of increase as seen with placebo . treatment with octreotide acetate prevented the development of both vasomotor and gastrointestinal symptoms and completely ablated all of the above responses in plasma peptides . these changes were associated with complete ablation of diarrhea ( p less than 0.001 ) . pretreatment with octreotide acetate completely suppressed the rise in plasma insulin response to the meal and this ablated the late hypoglycemia of dumping . treatment with octreotide acetate resulted in delayed gastric emptying and transit time ( 578 + / - 244 minutes ) versus 76 + / - 23 minutes with placebo and 125 + / - 36 minutes in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . chronic daily treatment with octreotide acetate resulted in minimal side effects . these patients demonstrated a stable fasting plasma glucose , normal liver function tests , and an average weight gain of 11 % during a 12-month period . in addition most patients were able to resume employment . the long-acting somatostatin analog , octreotide acetate , is highly effective in preventing the development of symptoms of severe dumping syndrome , both vasomotor and gastrointestinal . 
the risk of large bowel cancer after partial gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease . the relative risk ( standardized incidence ratio [ sir ] for colorectal cancer after partial gastrectomy for ulcer disease was examined in a population-based cohort comprising 6459 patients operated during 1950 to 1958 . follow-up through 1983 revealed 131 cases of colorectal cancer versus 150.3 expected cases ( sir = 0.87 ; 95 % confidence limits 0.73 , 1.03 ) . the relative risk was decreased during the first 19 years of follow-up ( sir = 0.75 ; 0.58 , 0.96 ) and close to equal thereafter ( sir = 1.02 ; 0.79 , 1.29 ) . sex , age at operation , type of operation , and diagnosis at operation ( stomach or duodenal ulcer ) did not affect the relative risk significantly . confounding by socioeconomic status is one conceivable explanation for the decreased relative risk during the first years of follow-up , whereas the increasing risk with longer duration of follow-up might be a consequence of the surgical procedure itself . 
involvement of thromboxane and neutrophils in multiple-system organ edema with interleukin-2 . interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) produces toxicity characterized by generalized edema within 24 hours . this study tests whether the rate of il-2 administration modulates the onset of edema and examines thromboxane ( tx ) and neutrophils as possible mediators of this event . recombinant human il-2 , 10 ( 5 ) u ( n = 7 ) , 10 ( 6 ) u ( n = 9 ) , or vehicle ( n = 8 ) were given to anesthetized rats intravenously during a period of 1 hour . at 6 hours edema , as measured by increase in wet to dry weight ( w/d ) ratio , was present in the heart , liver , and kidney , with 10 ( 5 ) u il-2 and in the lung , heart , liver and kidney , with 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , relative to values with vehicle-infused controls ( all p less than 0.05 ) . with a 1-hour infusion of 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , there was an increase in plasma thromboxane ( tx ) b2 level to 1290 + / - 245 pg/ml , higher than 481 + / - 93 pg/ml in control rats ( p less than 0.05 ) ; lung polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) sequestration of 53 + / - 7 pmn/10 higher-power fields ( hpf ) relative to 23 + / - 2 pmn/10 hpf in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) ; and increased bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluid protein concentration of 1970 + / - 210 micrograms/ml relative to 460 micrograms/ml in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . when 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 was given as a 1-minute intravenous bolus ( n = 9 ) , edema was not demonstrated , plasma txb2 levels were similar to controls , there was no leukosequestration , and bal protein levels were normal . these data indicate that a constant infusion but not the rapid bolus administration of il-2 produces in rats multiple-system organ edema , increased plasma txb2 , sequestration of pmns , and microvascular permeability . these findings may explain the early toxicity seen in patients given high-dose il-2 in cancer treatment . 
autologous implant of peritoneal mesothelium in rabbits and man . with the purpose of studying peritoneal physiology , original biopsy methods were devised and human and rabbit peritoneal mesothelial cells cultured and characterized . it was then decided to verify whether these cells could be implanted autologously during peritoneal dialysis in cases of acute loss of mesothelial surface . staphylococcal peritonitis was induced in 12 rabbits and after 4 days of antibiotics , 6 of them were autoimplanted with cultured mesothelial cells , previously marked in 3 cases with thymidine ( h3tdr ) . implanted rabbits sacrificed after 3 and 6 days showed taking of the new mesothelial cells both by direct morphological observation and by autoradiography . four uremic capd patients recovering from severe peritonitis were implanted with 300 million of their own peritoneal mesothelial cells , previously cultured and frozen . morphological signs of taking were evident by laparoscopy and from peritoneal biopsies performed 3 and 6 days after implant . the fact that such implants are possible may have interesting applications in medicine and surgery . 
changes in interferon receptors on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with chronic hepatitis b being treated with interferon . we studied the binding of 125i-labeled human interferon-alpha to peripheral blood mononuclear cells and the activity of 2 ' ,5 ' - oligoadenylate synthetase in peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from 21 patients with chronic hepatitis b who were treated with human interferon-alpha or interferon-beta . fourteen patients were given interferon daily for 4 wk . interferon receptors per cell decreased to about 50 % of baseline but increased to baseline by 2 wk after therapy ended . the activity of 2 ' ,5 ' - oligoadenylate synthetase rose about fivefold during therapy , decreasing to baseline by 1 wk after the end of therapy . the seven other patients were given interferon daily for 2 wk , no interferon for 2 wk and then interferon daily for 2 wk more . during both periods of therapy on this schedule , interferon receptors decreased to about 50 % but returned to baseline 1 wk after the interferon was stopped . the activity of 2 ' ,5 ' - oligoadenylate synthetase increased about fivefold during both the first and second periods of therapy and decreased to baseline 1 wk after interferon was stopped . close negative correlation existed between the number of interferon receptors and the 2 ' ,5 ' - oligoadenylate synthetase activity . the results of interferon therapy could not be predicted by either the numbers of interferon receptors before therapy or by the decrease in this number during therapy . 
interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of recombinant alpha-interferon treatment in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection . in a randomized controlled trial of recombinant alpha-2a interferon for chronic hepatitis b , interferon antibodies developed in 21 ( 39 % ) of 54 chinese adults who received ifn . no correlation was observed between sex , age , pretreatment serum alt level or liver histological findings and the development of interferon antibodies . antibodies were significantly more likely to develop in patients who received lower doses ( 2.5 or 5 mu/m2 ) of alpha-2a interferon than in those who received a higher dose ( 10 mu/m2 ) : 53 % vs. 11 % ( p = 0.006 ) . the development of interferon antibodies appeared to reverse the initial antiviral response to treatment , with reappearance of hepatitis b virus dna in serum in 12 patients and hbeag in three patients . sustained clearance of hbeag was achieved in only one ( 5 % ) patient but was achieved in seven ( 21 % ) patients without interferon antibodies . the mere presence of interferon antibodies did not preclude an antiviral response to interferon therapy , but patients with high titer neutralizing antibodies were less likely to respond . these findings suggest that interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of alpha-2a interferon . a higher incidence of interferon antibodies in chinese vs. white patients with chronic hepatitis b may contribute to the poorer antiviral response in chinese patients . 
a biphasic pattern of anti-pre-s responses in acute hepatitis b virus infection . the clinical relevance of the immune response to the translation products of the pre-s1 and pre-s2 regions of hepatitis b virus was examined by testing sequential serum samples from 17 patients with acute self-limited hepatitis b and from two patients in whom chronic liver disease developed . anti-pre-s antibodies were determined by enzyme immunoassays based on the inhibition of binding of monoclonal antibodies to epitopes in the pre-s1 and pre-s2 sequence . in acute , self-limited infection , anti-pre-s antibodies appeared in a biphasic pattern . the early antibodies were detected at the time of clinical signs of acute disease when hbsag and often hbeag were present , but hepatitis b virus dna was no longer detectable in serum . anti-pre-s levels then fell , but subsequently reappeared as the late antibody during the recovery phase , after development of anti-hbe , but before anti-hbs . anti-pre-s responses were detected in 15 of 17 patients who recovered ( 88.2 % ) and in both patients with acute hepatitis b virus infection evolving to chronic liver disease . although the early antibodies to pre-s1 and pre-s2 proteins appeared at the time of decreasing levels of infectious virus in serum in cases of self-limited infection , these antibodies also were transiently or continuously present with high levels of serum hepatitis b virus dna in patients in whom chronic hepatitis b infection developed . thus the anti-pre-s response in acute hepatitis is not a prognostic marker for clinical resolution . 
early and frequent detection of hbxag and/or anti-hbx in hepatitis b virus infection . to clarify the significance of the x gene of hepatitis b virus , we have tested for anti-hbx in the serum and hbxag in the liver at different stages of the natural history of hepatitis b virus infection . sera were screened by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and positive results confirmed by immunoblot . purified recombinant ms2 pol-hbx fusion protein was used as target for both assays . among serial sera of patients with nonfulminant acute hepatitis , 24 of 64 patients ( 37.5 % ) were positive for anti-hbx . in fulminant cases , 15 of 36 patients ( 42 % ) had anti-hbx . in chronic hepatitis patients with high rates of hepatitis b virus replication , we found a significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) higher prevalence of anti-hbx , 14 of 25 patients ( 56 % ) , than in those with low replication , 14 of 66 patients ( 21 % ) , or among asymptomatic hbsag carrier blood donors ( 20 of 126 = 16 % ) without detectable hepatitis b virus replication ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the highest prevalence of anti-hbx was found in hbsag carriers with cirrhosis ( 41 of 54 patients = 76 % ) and/or with hepatocellular carcinoma ( 18 of 33 patients = 54 % ) . the findings suggest that anti-hbx appears as a common and early marker of hepatitis b virus infection , transient in self-limited hepatitis but persisting with progression to chronicity . in chronic hepatitis , the prevalence of anti-hbx correlated with the intensity and duration of hepatitis b virus replication but neither with the severity of the liver disease nor with malignant transformation per se . 
defects in the precore region of the hbv genome in patients with chronic hepatitis b after sustained seroconversion from hbeag to anti-hbe induced spontaneously or with interferon therapy . hepatitis b virus dna clones were propagated from sera of six patients with chronic hepatitis b who seroconverted from hbeag to antibody to hbeag either spontaneously or after administration of alpha-interferon . defects in the precore region blocking synthesis and secretion of hbeag were detected in all 46 hepatitis b virus dna clones from three patients who remained positive for antibody to hbeag and in whom hepatitis resolved . defective clones had point mutations from guanine to adenine at nucleotide 83 in the precore region , converting codon 28 from tryptophan ( tgg ) to a stop codon ( tag ) . in contrast , this defect was not found in any of 39 hepatitis b virus dna clones from three patients who seroconverted to antibody to hbeag but then redeveloped hbeag with reactivation of hepatitis . using these results , the g-to-a point mutation at nucleotide 83 in the precore region would predict sustained positivity for antibody to hbeag and remission of hepatitis in patients who have seroconverted either spontaneously or with interferon therapy . 
influence of hepatitis delta virus replication in the presence of hepatitis b virus dna in peripheral blood mononuclear cells . the presence of hepatitis b virus dna was studied in peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 259 hbsag carriers ( 229 anti-hepatitis delta negative , 30 anti-hepatitis delta positive ) , 16 anti-hbc-positive hbsag-negative patients and 30 patients without hepatitis b virus markers . hepatitis b virus dna sequences were detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from 115 ( 44.4 % ) of the chronic hbsag carriers and from two ( 12 % ) of the anti-hbc-positive , hbsag-negative patients . in anti-hepatitis delta-negative patients , viral dna was positive in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from 74 ( 46 % ) and from 24 ( 35.5 % ) with and without serum hbv-dna , respectively . with respect to anti-hepatitis delta-positive patients , viral dna was found in peripheral blood mononuclear cell in 8 of 13 ( 61.5 % ) of the patients with circulating hepatitis delta virus rna and in 9 of 17 ( 53 % ) of the hepatitis delta virus rna-negative subjects . regarding hepatitis b virus dna in serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cell , 71 % ( 5 of 7 ) of the patients with serum hepatitis b virus dna had this marker in peripheral blood mononuclear cell , whereas 52 % ( 12 of 23 ) of the patients without serum hepatitis b virus dna had hepatitis b virus dna in peripheral blood mononuclear cell . a southern blot analysis was also carried out on peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 30 patients . hepatitis b virus dna was detected in 16 patients as free forms , in 12 patients as dimers and free forms and as free circular together with free linear forms in the remaining two patients . 
association of autoimmune hepatitis with hla-bw54 and dr4 in japanese patients . human leukocyte antigen-d region-related alleles ( human leukocyte antigen dr and dq ) and human leukocyte antigen class i alleles were typed serologically in 31 japanese patients with autoimmune hepatitis . these patients had increased serum levels of ast and igg , high titers of autoantibodies , no history of blood transfusion and were negative for hbsag and antibodies to hbc . three hundred eighty-six healthy subjects and 30 patients with cryptogenic chronic hepatitis served as control groups . the frequency of dr4 was significantly higher in autoimmune hepatitis patients ( 90.3 % ) than in healthy subjects ( 38.6 % ) and in cryptogenic chronic hepatitis patients ( 30 % ) . the frequency of bw54 was significantly higher in autoimmune hepatitis patients ( 45.2 % ) than in healthy subjects ( 10.9 % ) . the risk to dr4-positive subjects for autoimmune hepatitis was 14.8 relative to healthy subjects . two of 31 patients ( 6.5 % ) with autoimmune hepatitis were positive for antibody to hepatitis c virus ; both clearly satisfied criteria for autoimmune hepatitis and both had bw54 and dr4 . this study revealed a highly significant association of autoimmune hepatitis with human leukocyte antigen bw54 and dr4 in japanese patients . among the dr4-positive patients with autoimmune hepatitis , no significant differences were seen between those positive or negative for bw54 with regard to clinical or laboratory data , relapse of disease or efficacy of prednisolone . thus human leukocyte antigen class ii alleles contribute to susceptibility and resistance to autoimmune hepatitis in japanese patients , with distinct racial differences from those in white patients . 
the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor is a target antigen for liver-infiltrating t cells in autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and primary biliary cirrhosis . autoantibodies to the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor have been found in nearly 50 % of the sera of patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and in 15 % of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis . in this study we demonstrate that the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor is also a target antigen for t cell-mediated immune responses . peripheral blood lymphocytes of 37 % ( 7 of 19 ) of patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and 33 % ( 2 of 6 ) of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis showed a proliferative response to highly purified human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor , whereas no proliferation was found with peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients with chronic viral hepatitis ( 0 of 13 ) and healthy blood donors ( 0 of 4 ) . moreover , we isolated t-cell clones from liver biopsy samples of two patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and two patients with peripheral blood lymphocytes . between 2.8 % and 14.3 % of these clones showed a specific proliferative response to purified human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor . the response was restricted to autologous antigen-presenting cells and could be blocked by monoclonal antibodies against human leukocyte antigen-dr molecules . the response of t cells to the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor did not require the lectinlike activity of the asialoglycoprotein receptor . thus the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor could be identified as a major target antigen of humoral and cellular immune reactions in autoimmune-mediated liver diseases . 
decreased toxicity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils toward hepatocytes isolated from rats with acute inflammatory reaction . we have recently demonstrated that polymorphonuclear neutrophils were toxic to hepatocytes through a protease-mediated mechanism . since synthesis of antiproteases is markedly increased during acute inflammatory reaction , the aim of this work was to investigate the toxicity of neutrophils against normal vs. inflammatory rat hepatocytes . acute inflammatory reaction was induced by subcutaneous injection of turpentine 24 hr before the experiments . hepatocytes from normal and turpentine-treated rats were isolated by collagenase digestion . they were incubated with human neutrophils stimulated by 1 mg/ml opsonized zymosan . cytotoxicity was quantified by the percentage of alanine aminotransferase activity released by hepatocytes in culture medium after an 18-hr incubation period . by comparison to normal hepatocytes , inflammatory hepatocytes were more resistant to the toxicity of neutrophils . at a neutrophil/hepatocyte ratio of 20:1 , the alanine aminotransferase activity releases were 53.7 % + / - 5.4 % ( mean + / - 1 s.e. ) and 27.4 % + / - 4.8 % for normal and inflammatory hepatocytes , respectively . similarly , inflammatory hepatocytes were found to be less sensitive than normal hepatocytes to the toxic effect of purified neutrophil cathepsin g. in contrast , both types of hepatocytes exhibited the same sensitivity to h2o2 generated by a system consisting of glucose and glucose oxidase . two arguments suggested that the resistance of inflammatory hepatocytes to protease toxicity was explained by an increased production of antiproteases by these cells : ( a ) when tested against cathepsin g and porcine pancreatic elastase activities , the protease inhibitory capacity of conditioned medium from inflammatory hepatocytes was higher than that of conditioned medium from normal hepatocytes ; ( b ) conditioned medium from inflammatory hepatocytes markedly reduced the toxicity of stimulated neutrophils as that of cathepsin g. 
restoration of liver function in gunn rats without immunosuppression using transplanted microencapsulated hepatocytes . microencapsulation of cells within synthetic semipermeable membranes is a novel technique that enables the transplantation of cell cultures without the need for immunosuppression . we have previously shown that transplanted isolated encapsulated hepatocytes can provide sufficient short-term metabolic support to improve the survival of animals with galactosamine-induced fulminant hepatic failure . here we have demonstrated the feasibility of isolated encapsulated hepatocyte transplantation in providing long-term metabolic liver support in gunn rats . gunn rats have a congenital inability to conjugate bilirubin and thus exhibit lifelong hyperbilirubinemia . we studied the feasibility of isolated encapsulated hepatocyte transplantation in restoring this specific liver function . free hepatocytes , isolated from male wistar rats , were microencapsulated with collagen within a trilayered sodium alginate-poly-l-lysine-sodium alginate membrane using techniques developed in our laboratory . a total of 45 gunn rats underwent intraperitoneal transplantation with free hepatocytes ( 5 x 10 ( 7 ] , isolated encapsulated hepatocytes ( 5 x 10 ( 7 ] , control ( empty ) microcapsules or no transplant ( untreated controls ) . serum bilirubin levels were monitored daily for 10 days after transplantation , and subsequent weekly samples were obtained for up to 1 mo . microcapsules were studied by light and electron microscopy 1 mo after transplantation . during the first week after transplantation , the mean maximum reduction in serum bilirubin levels for the isolated encapsulated hepatocytes , free hepatocytes and control microcapsule transplanted groups was 45.7 % , 18.6 % and 14.3 % , respectively . for up to 1 mo thereafter the mean reduction in serum bilirubin levels in these respective groups was 34.8 % , 13.5 % and 3.3 % . 
normalization of ventilation/perfusion relationships after liver transplantation in patients with decompensated cirrhosis : evidence for a hepatopulmonary syndrome . to examine the effect of liver transplantation on the respiratory and cardiovascular functions , ventilation/perfusion relationships were determined by multiple inert gas elimination technique in six patients with end-stage liver disease 1 to 19 mo before and 2 to 6 mo after liver transplantation . cardiac output and pulmonary vascular pressures were measured after catheterization of the pulmonary artery . all patients had normal spirometry and chest x-ray films before transplantation . pao2 before transplantation was 78.8 + / - 7.4 mm hg ( range = 51.8 to 102.8 mm hg ) . all patients had perfusion of poorly ventilated lung regions ( low ventilation/perfusion relationships ) varying from 3 % to 19 % of cardiac output ( mean = 8.5 % + / - 2.4 % of cardiac output ) and two patients had intrapulmonary shunting ( 3 % and 20 % of cardiac output ) . measured and calculated pao2 agreed closely , indicating absence of pulmonary diffusion abnormality , as well as of extrapulmonary shunting . after transplantation , pao2 normalized in all patients , and both shunting and low ventilation/perfusion relationships disappeared . cardiac output decreased from 9.1 + / - 1.4 to 6.6 + / - 0.5 l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) , and the pulmonary vascular resistance increased from 0.69 + / - 0.14 to 1.64 + / - 0.43 mm hg/l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) . the systemic vascular resistance also increased ( before = 8.7 + / - 1.0 ; after = 15.3 + / - 1.1 mm hg/l/min ; p less than 0.001 ) . normalization of respiratory and cardiovascular alterations , after liver transplantation , in patients with end-stage liver disease indicates that these changes have a direct functional relationship to the diseased liver . it is hypothesized that this is part of a " hepatopulmonary syndrome , ' which in similarity to the hepatorenal syndrome disappears with improved liver function . 
differential regulation of liver p-450iii cytochromes in choline-deficient rats : implications for the erythromycin breath test as a parameter of liver function . progressive liver fibrosis in rats develops when they are fed a diet deficient in choline . this diet also results in a pronounced and selective decrease in the liver microsomal content of a phase i drug-metabolizing enzyme belonging to the cytochrome p-450iii gene family . because p-450iii cytochromes characteristically catalyze the n-demethylation of erythromycin , we believed that the production of breath co2 from erythromycin would be dramatically reduced in choline-deficient rats . however , when 12 choline-deficient rats were compared with 9 control rats , the reduction in co2 production from erythromycin ( mean decrease 71 % ) was essentially identical to that from aminopyrine ( mean decrease 69 % ) , a substrate believed to be metabolized normally by the hepatocyte in fibrotic liver disease . furthermore , we found that the relative erythromycin and aminopyrine demethylase activities were comparable when measured in vitro in liver microsomes prepared from the choline-deficient rats . to determine the molecular basis for the erythromycin demethylase activity in the choline-deficient rats , the liver microsomes were subjected to immunoblot analysis using a variety of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies capable of distinguishing individual p-450iii-related proteins . our studies confirm that a major erythromycin demethylase belonging to the p-450iii family , termed p-450p , was greatly reduced in the choline-deficient rat liver . however , the specific concentration of a second p-450p-related protein was essentially normal and that of a third p-450p-related protein was actually increased in the choline-deficient rat liver . 
attenuation of alcohol-induced hepatic fibrosis by polyunsaturated lecithin . characteristic features of alcoholic liver injury include fibrosis and striking membrane alterations , with associated phospholipid changes . to offset some of these abnormalities , a 10-yr study was conducted in baboons : 12 animals ( eight females , four males ) were fed a liquid diet supplemented with polyunsaturated lecithin ( 4.1 mg/kcal ) for up to 8 yr , with either ethanol ( 50 % of total energy ) or isocaloric carbohydrate . they were compared with another group of 18 baboons fed an equivalent amount of the same diet ( with or without ethanol ) , but devoid of lecithin . in the two groups , comparable increases in lipids developed in the ethanol-fed animals , but striking differences in the degree of fibrosis were seen . whereas at least septal fibrosis ( with cirrhosis in two ) and transformation of their lipocytes into transitional cells developed in seven of the nine baboons fed the regular diet with ethanol , septal fibrosis did not develop in any animals fed lecithin ( p less than 0.005 ) . they did not progress beyond the stage of perivenular fibrosis ( sometimes associated with pericellular and perisinusoidal fibrosis ) and had a significantly lesser activation of lipocytes to transitional cells . furthermore , when three of these animals were taken off lecithin , but continued on the same amount of the ethanol-containing diet , they rapidly ( within 18 to 21 mo ) progressed to cirrhosis , accompanied by an increased transformation of their lipocytes to transitional cells . these results indicate that some component of lecithin exerts a protective action against the fibrogenic effects of ethanol . because we had previously found that choline , in amounts present in lecithin , has no comparable action , the polyunsaturated phospholipids themselves might be responsible for the protective effect . 
preventive therapy of first gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis : results of a controlled trial comparing propranolol , endoscopic sclerotherapy and placebo . propranolol and endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices are the two approaches currently used in prophylaxis of the first gastrointestinal hemorrhage in the cirrhotic patient . one hundred twenty-six cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices and no histories of bleeding were included in the trial regardless of the gravity of the cirrhosis or the size of the esophageal varices . patients with hepatocarcinomas or other cancers , clearly impossible follow-up , previous treatment for portal hypertension or contraindication to beta-blockers were excluded . after randomization , 43 patients received propranolol twice daily at a dose reducing the heart rate by 25 % ; 42 patients were treated with intravariceal and extravariceal injections of polidocanol ; 41 control patients received vitamin k orally as placebo . the patients were seen at 3-mo intervals for 2 yr . on entry to the trial the three groups were comparable in terms of clinical and biological parameters , including size of esophageal varices ( grade i = 51 , grade ii = 54 , grade iii = 17 ) , child-pugh classification ( a = 29 , b = 61 , c = 32 ) and the origin of cirrhosis ( alcoholic in 79 % of cases ) . twenty-four patients bled ( two bled in the propranolol group , nine bled in the endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices group and 13 bled in the placebo group ) . actuarial estimates ( kaplan-meier ) of the time of onset of first bleeding showed that the differences were significant between propranolol and placebo ( p less than 0.004 ) and between propranolol and sclerotherapy ( p less than 0.03 ) but not between sclerotherapy and placebo . 
hepatitis b virus nucleocapsid/pre-s 2 fusion proteins expressed in attenuated salmonella for oral vaccination . hybrid hbv nucleocapsid-pre-s ( 2 ) fusion proteins were stably expressed in several aromatic-dependent attenuated salmonella typhimurium and salmonella dublin strains . when these live recombinant bacteria were administered i.p. to balb/c mice they induced high titer anti-hepatitis b virus core ag ( hbc ) and detectable anti-pre-s2 serum antibodies . upon oral feeding of the recombinant salmonellae to mice , the rate of seroconversion to anti-hbc was dependent on the salmonella strain used . with the best carrier strain high titer anti-hbc antibodies and lower titer anti-pre-s2 serum igg antibodies were observed two weeks after a single oral immunization . the ig class and igg subclass distribution of anti-hbc antibodies after i.p. and oral immunization is consistent with the induction of functional t cell help . 
isolation and characterization of cdna encoding a human nuclear antigen predominantly recognized by autoantibodies from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis . autoantibodies to a novel nuclear ag , sp100 , have recently been described that recognize a nuclear protein with an apparent molecular mass of 95 to 100 kda and a dot-like distribution within cell nuclei . by immunoscreening of a lambda gt11 cdna expression library derived from hela cells with an anti-sp100 autoimmune serum a 0.7-kb cdna ( sp26 ) coding for a fragment of sp100 was isolated . expression of this cdna and use of the recombinant protein in elisa revealed that the fragment carries major sp100 autoepitopes and that anti-sp100 autoantibodies predominantly occur in patients suffering from primary biliary cirrhosis ( 50/184 ) . the sp26 cdna was used as hybridization probe for isolation of longer cdna from human liver - and placenta-derived lambda gt10 cdna libraries . overlapping fragments were assembled to generate a full length cdna coding for a protein with a molecular mass of 53 kda and an isoelectric point of 4.7 . the sp100 autoantigen expressed in vitro from this cdna and authenticated by a capture immunoblot assay , comigrated in sds-page with the authentic hela autoantigen of 95 to 100 kda and thus showed an aberrant electrophoretic mobility . computer based protein sequence analysis of the sp100 autoantigen revealed regions of striking sequence similarities to the alpha 1 and alpha 2 domains of various human and non-human mhc class i ag and to several transacting transcriptional regulatory proteins . 
cd8 + t cell homing to the pancreas in the nonobese diabetic mouse is cd4 + t cell-dependent . the adoptive transfer of type i diabetes in nonobese diabetic mice requires the contribution of both cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . to further elucidate the cellular pathway ( s ) of beta-cell destruction and the responsibility of each subset , high doses of committed t cells from diabetic mice purified to single subsets , were injected into syngeneic nonobese diabetic neonates . the recipients of single or mixed subsets were followed for clinical manifestations of diabetes and examined at 30 days of age for in situ lesions . none of the animals injected with either cd4 + or cd8 + t cells became overtly diabetic during the 30 days of observation whereas 8 of 23 mice inoculated with a mixture of the two subsets developed glycosuria and hyperglycemia . however , insulitis was found in 6 of the 13 mice injected with cd4 + t cells whereas only 1 of the 9 mice injected with cd8 + t cells showed marginal infiltration of the pancreas . the lesions initiated by cd4 + t cells alone were considerably less severe than those induced by the mixture of both subsets , corroborating the fact that overt disease did not occur in the former group . together , these results suggest a distinct function for each diabetogenic t cell subset . cd4 + t cells , which have the capacity to home to the pancreas , promote in turn the influx of cd8 + effector t cells that do not by themselves accumulate in this organ . these results illustrate a novel form of t-t cell interactions leading to organ specific autoimmune lesions . 
evidence for the targeting by 2-oxo-dehydrogenase enzymes in the t cell response of primary biliary cirrhosis . primary biliary cirrhosis ( pbc ) is a chronic autoimmune liver disease that includes the presence of lymphoid infiltrates in portal tracts , high titer autoantibodies against pyruvate dehydrogenase-e2 ( pdh-e2 ) and branched chain ketoacid dehydrogenase-e2 ( bckd-e2 ) , and biliary tract destruction . the mechanism by which the autoimmune response is induced , the specificity of damage to the biliary epithelium , and the role of t cells in pbc are still unknown . to address these issues , we have taken advantage of a mouse mab , coined c355 .1 , and studied its reactivity against a panel of liver tissue from normal subjects as well as a panel of liver specimens from patients with pbc , progressive sclerosing cholangitis , and chronic active hepatitis ( cah ) . c355 .1 , much like human autoantibodies to pdh-e2 , reacts exclusively by immunoblotting with pdh-e2 , binds to the inner lipoyl domain of the protein , and inhibits pdh-e2 activity in vitro . in addition , we have also attempted to develop cloned t cell lines that react with pdh-e2 and/or bckd-e2 using liver biopsies from patients with pbc , compared with cah . although monoclonal c355 .1 produced typical mitochondrial fluorescence on sections of normal liver , pancreas , lung , heart , thyroid , and kidney , it produced a distinct and intense reactivity when used to stain the bile ducts of patients with pbc . nine of 13 pbc liver biopsies studied herein contained bile ducts on light microscopy , all of which reacted intensely at a 1:100 culture supernatant dilution of monoclonal c355 .1 . in contrast , although bile ducts of liver specimens from normals , cah , and progressive sclerosing cholangitis also reacted with c355 .1 , such reactivity was exclusively mitochondrial and readily detectable only at a dilution of 1:2 . more importantly , we generated cd4 + , cd8 - , alpha beta tcr + cloned t cell lines from patients with pbc , but not from cah , that produced il-2 specifically in response to pdh-e2 or bckd-e2 . 
pneumococcal pneumonia in a rat model of cirrhosis : effects of cirrhosis on pulmonary defense mechanisms against streptococcus pneumoniae . to study alterations in host defense mechanisms that enhance pneumococcal virulence , a model of streptococcus pneumoniae pneumonia was developed in cirrhotic rats . cirrhosis , with or without ascites , was produced in rats by intragastric administration of carbon tetrachloride ( ccl4 ) . histopathologic and laboratory studies demonstrated that ccl4-induced cirrhosis was similar to alcoholic cirrhosis in humans . cirrhotic rats were more susceptible to type 3 pneumococcal pneumonia induced by intratracheal challenge than controls , and the presence of ascites was associated with the lowest ld50 . more cirrhotic rats with ascites had bacteremia and elevated levels of circulating capsular antigen after challenge compared with cirrhotic rats without ascites or controls . pulmonary clearance of pneumococci was markedly reduced in rats with cirrhosis and ascites and was associated with reduced serum complement levels . this model may be useful in further studies of the pathogenesis and therapy of pneumococcal infections in the compromised host . 
divergent efficacy of antibody to tumor necrosis factor-alpha in intravascular and peritonitis models of sepsis . the role of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) in the lethal consequences of intravascular lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) or escherichia coli sepsis was compared with that in bacterial peritonitis . intravenous administration of e. coli lps or e. coli ( live or dead ) resulted in large transient increases in serum tnf alpha levels , peaking at 90 min at 10,000-30 ,000 units/ml . in contrast , the serum tnf alpha response following the induction of bacterial peritonitis was substantially less , peaking at 200-500 units/ml . sterile peritonitis ( essentially nonlethal ) and bacterial peritonitis ( greater than 60 % lethal ) elevated tnf alpha levels to 1000-2000 units/lavage within the peritoneal cavity 2 h after challenge . passive immunization with neutralizing goat anti-tnf alpha igg improved survival from 8 % to 75 % in rats administered lps intravenously but was completely ineffective in protecting rats from lethal e. coli peritonitis . thus significant differences exist in the role tnf alpha plays in systemic intravascular models of sepsis and bacterial peritonitis . 
bismuth subsalicylate in the treatment of acute diarrhea in children : a clinical study . bismuth subsalicylate ( bss ) and placebo were evaluated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled study as adjunct to rehydration therapy in 123 children , aged 4 to 28 months , hospitalized with acute diarrhea . the dosing regimen was 20 mg/kg five times daily for 5 days . significant benefits were noted in the bss group compared with placebo as manifested by decreases in stool frequency and stool weights and an improvement in stool consistency , significant improvement in clinical well-being , and shortening of the disease duration . patients treated with bss had a significant reduction in duration of hospital stay ( 6.9 days ) compared with placebo-treated patients ( 8.5 days ) . also , intravenous fluid requirements decreased significantly more rapidly and to a greater degree in the bss-treated group . bismuth subsalicylate was associated with clearance of pathogenic escherichia coli from the stools in 100 % of cases but was not different from placebo in rotavirus elimination . bismuth subsalicylate was well tolerated with no reported adverse effects . blood bismuth and serum salicylate levels were well below levels considered toxic . in this study , bss provided effective adjunctive therapy for acute diarrhea , allowing children to get well sooner with less demand on the nursing and hospital staff . 
use and misuse of oral therapy for diarrhea : comparison of us practices with american academy of pediatrics recommendations . to determine how closely us pediatricians follow the 1985 american academy of pediatrics committee on nutrition 's recommendations on oral therapy for acute diarrhea , a questionnaire was administered to four groups : new england private practitioners , pediatricians from 27 states attending a postgraduate course , representatives of departments of pediatrics at us schools of medicine , and housestaff at boston children 's and massachusetts general hospitals . the responses from departments of pediatrics and housestaff were not significantly different from those of community practitioners in most categories . the reported rate of use of glucose-electrolyte solutions recommended by the american academy of pediatrics was not different from the use of nonphysiologic , high-osmolar , low-salt solutions such as sodas and juices . the usage rate for glucose-electrolyte solutions meeting the american academy of pediatrics-recommended carbohydrate-to-sodium ratio of less than 2:1 was less than 30 % . other findings included the general lack of agreement on the use of a single type of therapy and the common use of oral therapy only for mild or no dehydration . although the american academy of pediatrics recommends that feeding be reintroduced in the first 24 hours of a diarrheal episode , the majority of respondents withhold feeding until the second day or later . these findings indicate that educational programs on oral therapy during acute diarrhea are needed in the united states . 
spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula : the " abdominal pain , hematuria , silent left kidney " syndrome . spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula ( alrvf ) is a rare occurrence ; with this case , only 16 have been reported to date . common features in patients with alrvf include abdominal pain ( 81 % ) , hematuria ( 100 % ) , impaired renal function ( 85 % ) , and nonvisualization of the left kidney ( 100 % ) . less common but also present in the majority of cases are a left sided bruit ( 73 % ) , pulsatile abdominal mass ( 63 % ) , and proteinuria ( 50 % ) . also important , 94 % have a retroaortic left renal vein , unlike the six cases of traumatic alrvf that have been reported . this magnifies the diagnostic value of contrast abdominal computed tomographic scanning , which demonstrates not only the anomalous location of the left renal vein but also the abdominal aortic aneurysm and poor enhancement of the left kidney . these findings rule out the possibility of the " nutcracker syndrome " ( left renal vein compression between aorta and superior mesenteric artery ) . although confirming the presence of a fistula by early caval opacification , aortography does not always distinguish alrvf from the more common aortocaval fistula . this can be accomplished by duplex scanning with deep probes and even preferably color coding of velocity signals . with such precise preoperative localization , surgical repair is relatively easy and safe . 
adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder . a premalignant lesion ? gallbladder cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the biliary tract , but its early diagnosis is uncommon . the use of ultrasonography has increased the detection of benign gallbladder tumors , and the premalignant potential of gallbladder adenomas is now undisputed . adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder has recently been suggested to have malignant potential , and we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder occurring in localized adenomyomatosis that was successfully treated by radical curative surgery . the more rigorous use of ultrasonography and a more aggressive approach to " benign " polypoid lesions of the gallbladder may represent the best way of achieving early diagnosis and cure in gallbladder cancer . 
polyarteritis nodosa presenting as a biliary stricture . polyarteritis nodosa , a disease of the media of small and medium-sized arteries , has protean manifestations and many presenting signs and symptoms . gastrointestinal involvement is common but involvement of the biliary tree is rare . we report a unique case of polyarteritis presenting as a biliary stricture . 
gastric duplication cyst communicating with the pancreatic duct : a rare cause of recurrent abdominal pain . a 41-year-old woman with recurrent attacks of postprandial abdominal pain was found on endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and subsequent computed tomographic scan to have an enteric duplication within the substance of the pancreas with communication to the pancreatic duct . celiotomy demonstrated a noncontiguous gastric duplication cyst . internal drainage was curative . 
excipients in valproic acid syrup may cause diarrhea : a case report . a 5-year-old child receiving valproic acid syrup for seizure control developed diarrhea probably from the excipient ingredients . each 5 ml of valproic acid syrup contains sucrose 3 g , glycerin 0.75 g , and sorbitol 0.75 g , providing daily amounts of 36 , 9 , and 9 g of sucrose , glycerin , and sorbitol , respectively . the diarrhea resolved when the child was switched to another valproic acid product . clinicians should be aware of potential problems that may occur from excipient ingredients in pharmaceutical products when evaluating adverse effects of medications . 
the pharmacist as a health consultant -- ten years later . pharmacists remain a readily accessible and trusted source of information about health . in order to assess the quality of counseling on health matters and the progress of the profession in this activity over the last decade , a study similar to one reported in 1978 was conducted . we visited 46 community pharmacies and requested advice from the pharmacists concerning the proper treatment of an infant with diarrhea . interviewers volunteered no additional information , but questions asked by the pharmacist were answered according to a predetermined hypothetical case involving an 18-month-old infant with diarrhea and vomiting . findings include the following : approximately one-third of the pharmacists recommended a product without caution and less than 20 percent inquired about fever , nausea , vomiting , diet , or the infant 's condition . we believe pharmacists should approach health counseling with an increased awareness of the harmful potential in providing inappropriate medical information . 
warner-lambert/parke-davis award lecture . pathobiology of the intestinal epithelial barrier . the major route of passive permeation across intestinal epithelia is paracellular . the intercellular tight junction lies in and serves as the rate-limiting barrier in this paracellular pathway . once viewed as static , it is now clear that the structure and permeability of the tight junction is highly dynamic . not only may inflammatory events ( cytokines , neutrophil transmigration ) reversibly effect the tight junction but this key barrier also is regulated by physiologic events such as activation of absorptive cell na ( + ) - nutrient cotransporters . such physiologic regulation of the junction is of major importance to the absorption of nutrients via parcellular solvent drag . 
reversibility of hepatic fibrosis in experimentally induced cholestasis in rat . the reversibility of hepatic fibrosis was investigated in an experimental model of extrahepatic cholestasis in the rat after common bile duct ligation for 2 weeks , followed by bilioduodenal anastomosis for 3 weeks . bile duct ligation resulted in a transitory marked elevation in the serum concentration of 5 ' - nucleotidase , alkaline phosphatase , and bilirubin during the first 3 days . then these levels decreased to threefold , twofold , and 100-fold the normal values , respectively , during the following 4 weeks . histologic examination of the liver disclosed extensive bile duct proliferation and the formation of periportal fibrosis , with only slight inflammation and necrosis . the distribution of the major components of the hepatic extracellular matrix was analyzed 2 weeks after bile duct ligation , using the indirect immunoperoxidase method . fibrous septa were found to be strongly stained for collagens i , pro-iii , iii and iv , fibronectin , and laminin . the most intense staining was found in enlarged periportal areas , collagen iv and laminin being particularly abundant around newly formed bile ducts . these changes paralleled high steady-state levels of alpha 1 ( i ) and alpha 1 ( iv ) collagen and b2 chain laminin mrnas . relief of the obstruction for 2 weeks resulted in a shift in the serum concentration of 5 ' - nucleotidase , alkaline phosphatase , and bilirubin toward normal values . a dramatic resorption of bile duct proliferations and periportal fibrosis were observed . three weeks after bile duct repermeabilization , immunohistochemical study showed that the pattern of distribution of extracellular matrix components was almost normal , except for collagen iv , which remained abundant in the sinusoids when compared with the normal liver . in parallel , the steady-state b2-chain laminin mrna level became lower than in cholestatic livers , whereas alpha 1 ( i ) and alpha 1 ( iv ) mrnas were almost undetectable . these results show that hepatic fibrosis induced by experimental extrahepatic cholestasis in rat disappears in less than 3 weeks after relief of bile duct obstruction , suggesting that an active degradation of matrix protein occurs , except for collagen iv in the sinusoid . 
evidence for platelet-activating factor as a late-phase mediator of chronic pancreatitis in the rat . the role of platelet-activating factor ( paf ) as a mediator of pancreatic inflammation was examined in the rat pancreatic duct ligation model of obstructive pancreatitis . pancreatic generation of paf , as measured by bioassay ( ie , platelet [ 3h ] serotonin secretion ) , was determined at various times after induction of inflammation . tissue levels of paf in the normal pancreas averaged 600 + / - 49 pg/g , but paf was not detectable during the initial 24 hours of pancreatitis , a time when the inflammatory reaction would be considered acute , that is , during the period of maximal serum amylase release and the development of interstitial edema . however a substantial increase in pancreatic paf levels ( 12 times control levels ) was observed 7 to 14 days after duct ligation during the late-phase response interval similar to the situation characteristic of chronic pancreatitis in which parenchymal atrophy , fibrosis , and pancreatic insufficiency evolve . one week after duct ligation when paf levels peaked , an evaluation was made of the effects of paf antagonists ( bn52021 and web2170 ) on pancreatic lesions using evan 's blue extravasation , pancreatic myeloperoxidase ( mpo ) activity , and acid phosphatase activity in peritoneal lavage fluid . bn52021 or web2170 treatment was shown to reduce pancreatic damage and inflammation significantly . long-term in vivo administration of exogenous paf ( 20 micrograms/kg/hr for 7 days ) exhibited a reduction of [ 3h ] thymidine uptake into and amylase release from pancreatic acini in vitro . our observations 1 ) that pancreatic paf levels increased significantly during the chronic phase of obstructive pancreatitis induced by duct ligation ; 2 ) that inhibition of the action of paf , through specific receptor antagonism , caused an attenuation of pancreatic lesions ; and 3 ) that chronic administration of paf resulted in decreased pancreatic regeneration and exocrine function are consistent with a pivotal role for paf as a late-phase inflammatory mediator in chronic pancreatitis in rats . 
clinical features of misdiagnosed appendicitis in children . study objective : to compare clinical features of children with misdiagnosed appendicitis with those of children with appendicitis initially diagnosed correctly . design : retrospective review of hospital , emergency department , and clinic records . setting : university medical center with annual ed census of 40,000 patients . participants : children less than 13 years old admitted between may 1 , 1979 , and april 30 , 1989 , with a discharge diagnosis of appendicitis . measurements : records were reviewed for historical , physical examination , laboratory , and pathologic features for all patients on their initial presentation to a physician and on final presentation during which the correct diagnosis was made . using chi 2 analysis and student 's test , clinical features of misdiagnosed patients and patients diagnosed correctly were compared . results : one hundred eighty-one cases were identified with 50 initially misdiagnosed . on initial presentation , misdiagnosed patients were younger and more likely to have vomiting before pain onset , constipation , diarrhea , dysuria , and signs and symptoms of upper respiratory infections . misdiagnosed cases were less likely to have right lower quadrant tenderness and documentation of bowel sounds , peritoneal signs , and rectal examinations . on final presentation , misdiagnosed patients were more likely to have pain duration of more than two days , temperature of more than 38.3 c , and to appear lethargic and irritable ( p less than .05 for all measurements ) . conclusion : clinical features of children with misdiagnosed appendicitis differ from those of children with appendicitis initially diagnosed correctly . 
omeprazole enhances the efficacy of pancreatin ( pancrease ) in cystic fibrosis . we studied the effect of the addition of omeprazole ( 20 mg once a day ) to treatment with pancreatin ( pancrease , cilag , herentals , belgium ) , two or four capsules three times a day , on fecal fat excretion in a double-blind , crossover fashion in nine patients with cystic fibrosis having persistent steatorrhea while taking pancrease , two capsules three times a day ( mean fecal fat excretion , 22.3 % ; range , 12 % to 44 % ) . neither doubling of the dose of pancrease nor addition of omeprazole to the lower dose of pancrease significantly reduced fecal fat excretion ( mean , 19.6 % [ range , 10 % to 34 % ] ; mean , 16.4 % [ range , 6 % to 32 % ] , respectively ) . however , addition of omeprazole to the higher dose of pancrease ( four capsules three times a day ) significantly reduced fecal fat excretion when compared with the two doses of pancrease alone ( mean , 10.7 % ; range , 4 % to 25 % ; p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that adjunct therapy with omeprazole reduces fecal fat excretion in cystic fibrosis provided that a high dose of pancrease is supplied . 
seronegative juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and mast cell-associated gastritis . we describe 4 children with seronegative inflammatory arthritis who had persistent , severe nausea and abdominal pain over several months , in spite of vigorous medical therapy , including antacids and histamine h2 receptor antagonists . endoscopy and biopsy of gastric and duodenal mucosa showed antral gastritis and an increased number of mast cells in 3 of the 4 patients . in the fourth patient , urinary histamine levels were elevated . these findings suggest an association between inflammatory arthritis and localized mast cell disease in some individuals . further studies are needed to determine whether this association represents an independent syndrome or whether mast cell-related disease is secondary to long-term treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in children with mild arthritis . 
induction of arthritis in rats by aqueous suspensions of mycobacteria without the use of oil . we report for the first time the induction of arthritis by an aqueous , rather than an oil , suspension of killed tubercle bacilli . this was accomplished in the highly susceptible dark agouti strain of rats , by intraperitoneal injection during the healing phase of chemically induced peritonitis . the same procedure ( injection after the induction of peritonitis ) augmented the incidence of arthritis produced by bovine type ii collagen and freund 's complete adjuvant . enhanced delivery of antigen from the peritoneal cavity to regional lymph nodes in the postinflammatory state was responsible for this increase in the induction of arthritis . 
risk factors for transmission of hepatitis b virus to gambian children [ published erratum appears in lancet 1990 dec 22-29 ; 336 ( 8730 ) :1596 ] risk factors for hepatitis b virus transmission were examined in 973 gambian children aged 6 months to 5 years . 33 % had evidence of infection with hepatitis b virus and a third of these were carriers . a significant association was found between infection and tropical ulcer scars , and between e antigenaemia and the presence of bedbugs in each child 's bed . there was no association between infection and traditional scarring , circumcision , or injections . skin disease and arthropods are the two most likely modes of transmission of hepatitis b virus between children in west africa . 
effect of tetrahydroaminoacridine on cognition , function and behaviour in alzheimer 's disease . objective : to determine the efficacy of tetrahydroaminoacridine ( tha ) in alzheimer 's disease . design : randomized , double-blind , multiple crossover trial with three treatment periods , each consisting of 3 weeks of active drug therapy and 3 weeks of placebo administration . setting : referral-based geriatric practice in a community hospital . patients : thirty-four patients with moderate to severe alzheimer 's disease . subjects were included if they had stage 3 to 6 disease ( as determined by the reisberg scale ) and had not been taking psychotropic drugs for at least 1 month and if informed consent had been obtained from the patients and their next of kin . interventions : fifty to 100 mg of tha daily and matched placebo . results : of the initial 34 patients 14 experienced liver toxicity and 3 gastrointestinal side effects during the study ; however , all 22 who completed the study were able to tolerate at least the minimum dose . for the 22 patients there was no clinically or statistically significant effect of tha on cognition , functional status or behaviour . the results for individual patients showed no subgroup of tha-responsive patients . conclusion : tha has no clinically important benefits in alzheimer 's disease and is associated with appreciable toxic effects . 
diagnosis of campylobacter pylori gastritis . campylobacter pylori is a bacterium that inhabits gastric mucosa . it causes chronic active gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal ulcer . campylobacter pylori has a urease enzyme ( not present in man ) , which allows diagnosis by a [ 14c ] urea breath test . we compared two noninvasive tests , the breath test and serum elisa , to biopsy and histologic diagnosis . twenty-two patients who underwent gastroduodenoscopy for evaluation of possible peptic ulcer disease entered the study . the breath test detected the organism in eight of eight patients biopsy-positive for the organism ( sensitivity 100 % ) . the breath test was negative in 12 of the 14 patients who were biopsy-negative ( specificity 86 % ) . the elisa was performed in 14 patients . it was positive in 5 of 5 patients biopsy-positive for the organism ( sensitivity 100 % ) and negative in 7 of 9 patients who were biopsy-negative ( specificity 78 % ) . we conclude that both the elisa and the [ 14c ] urea breath test are excellent noninvasive methods to detect campylobacter pylori . however , only the breath test is suitable for following the response to treatment , as it detects the presence of the organism rather than an immune response to it . 
zollinger-ellison syndrome . relation to helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis and gastric acid secretion . since helicobacter pylori infects the gastric mucosa in most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer , infection with this organism has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this common disease . we postulated that if h. pylori is pathogenic in the usual type of duodenal ulcer , it should be less common when duodenal ulcer has another , specific etiology , such as zollinger-ellison syndrome . gastric mucosa was compared from 18 patients with proven zollinger-ellison syndrome ( 17 of whom had had duodenal ulcer disease ) and 18 controls with chronic duodenal ulcer without such a diagnosis . all subjects , who were matched for age and sex , had undergone elective gastric resections . gastric tissues were stained by hematoxylin-eosin and giemsa and were reviewed by an experienced pathologist who was unaware of the diagnosis . the frequency of h. pylori in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ( 8/18 ) was lower than in controls with duodenal ulcer ( 16/18 ; p less than 0.02 ) . moreover , chronic antral gastritis scores were higher in patients with duodenal ulcer ( p less than 0.01 ) . in zollinger-ellison syndrome , peak acid output was lower in patients positive ( median 22 meq/30 min ) compared to those negative for h. pylori ( median 32 meq/30 min ; p less than 0.02 ) but serum gastrin was correspondingly lower in patients positive for h. pylori ( p less than 0.05 ) . h. pylori infection appears to be more frequent when duodenal ulceration is not associated with another etiology , such as acid hypersecretion in zollinger-ellison syndrome . h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome may also be associated with decreased gastric acid secretion . 
radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis . prospective , randomized , double-blind controlled trial of oral sulfasalazine plus rectal steroids versus rectal sucralfate . in a prospective study , 37 consecutive patients with radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis were randomized to receive a four-week course of either 3.0 g oral sulfasalazine plus 20 mg twice daily rectal prednisolone enemas ( group i , n = 18 ) or 2.0 g twice daily rectal sucralfate enemas plus oral placebo ( group ii , n = 19 ) . the two groups were comparable with respect to demographic features , duration of symptoms , and clinical and endoscopic staging of the disease . fifteen patients in group i and 17 in group ii completed the trial . at four weeks , both groups showed significant clinical improvement ( p less than 0.01 for group i and p less than 0.001 for group ii ) and endoscopic healing ( p less than 0.01 for group i and p less than 0.001 for group ii ) . when the two groups were compared , sucralfate enemas showed a significantly better response as assessed clinically ( p less than 0.05 ) , although endoscopically the response was not statistically different ( p greater than 0.05 ) . we conclude that both treatment regimens are effective in the management of radiation proctitis . sucralfate enemas give a better clinical response , are tolerated better , and because of the lower cost should be the preferred mode of short-term treatment . 
primary cytomegalovirus infection and gastric ulcers in normal host . a 42-year-old woman presented with epigastric pain and vomiting . upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed three gastric ulcers . histologic examination of biopsies from the ulcers showed cytomegalovirus inclusion bodies . the appearance of igm antibodies to cytomegalovirus indicated a recent and primary infection . stored serum from her last pregnancy 17 months previously contained no cytomegalovirus antibodies . a thorough evaluation of her immune system revealed no abnormality . we are aware of only two other cases where seroconversion was documented in normal hosts . cytomegalovirus infections in the gastrointestinal tract of normal hosts are very unusual but a common cause of morbidity in immunocompromised hosts . we believe that cytomegalovirus may have a role in the pathogenesis of gastrointestinal lesions in nonimmunocompromised patients . 
helicobacter pylori and zollinger-ellison syndrome . helicobacter pylori ( previously campylobacter pylori ) is almost invariably associated with chronic duodenal ulcer disease . the relationship between h. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer in zollinger-ellison syndrome is unknown . we investigated the frequency of h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome and also what effect h. pylori infection had on gastric function in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome . h. pylori infection was diagnosed based on a specific serologic ( elisa ) assay based on high-molecular-weight cell-associated proteins of h. pylori . we studied 20 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ; 15 men and 5 women ranging in age from 24 to 71 years , median age 51 . six zollinger-ellison syndrome patients had h. pylori infection compared to 100 consecutive patients with chronic recurrent duodenal ulcer disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . pretreatment basal acid output in zollinger-ellison syndrome patients ranged from 7.9 to 95.0 mmol/hr , median 35.2 . pentagastrin-stimulated maximal acid output ranged from 8.5 to 132 mmol/hr ; median 52.7 . acid secretion was lower in the h. pylori-infected patients than the uninfected patients ( bao 24.5 + / - 6.5 vs 45.4 + / - 6.6 , and mao 44.3 + / - 11.8 vs 67.9 + / - 10.7 , for h. pylori infected vs uninfected patients , respectively ) . the difference in bao was statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . the present results indicate that h. pylori is not a major contributing factor in duodenal ulcer associated with zollinger-ellison syndrome . the association of a reduced bao with h. pylori suggests that these findings may be related . 
peptic ulcer perforation as the presentation of zollinger-ellison syndrome . we examined the characteristics of patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome who developed a perforation prior to diagnosis to determine whether any clinical features were useful markers of the syndrome . of 160 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome , perforation occurred prior to the diagnosis being made in 11 ( 7 % ) . at surgery , perforations were found in the duodenum in six cases and in the jejunum in five . in no case was tumor identified at emergency surgery , and the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome was made only in the postoperative period when excessive gastric secretions were noted . neither acid output nor serum gastrin concentration were useful predictors for perforation . the patients , six men and five women , were 27-61 years old ( median 48 ) and one had men-1 . three patients had no symptoms prior to the perforation . the other eight had symptoms for 1-15 years , with diarrhea occurring in 45 % of the cases . following the diagnosis of zollinger-ellison syndrome , patients were given medication to control gastric acid hypersecretion . eight patients remained well , but the three patients who had had a partial gastrectomy had a complicated course despite medical therapy . although features of perforation in zollinger-ellison syndrome are not specific , jejunal perforation or perforation associated with a history of diarrhea is suggestive of the diagnosis . serum gastrin should be measured in every case and a partial gastrectomy avoided . 
helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output in peptic ulcer disease . helicobacter pylori is associated with peptic ulcer , and a causal relationship has been postulated . we investigated the association between helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output . two hundred forty-one patients were studied : 173 with duodenal ulcer , 51 with gastric ulcer ( 41 corpus , 10 prepyloric ) , and 17 with combined gastric and duodenal ulcer . in 194 patients ( 80 % ) , helicobacter pylori could be demonstrated histologically from gastric antral biopsies . the presence or absence of helicobacter pylori was not influenced by age , sex , or use of tobacco or analgesics . patients with duodenal ulcer or combined gastric and duodenal ulcer had similar gastric acid outputs irrespective of the presence or absence of helicobacter pylori . however , gastric ulcer patients with helicobacter had higher basal and maximal acid outputs when compared to patients without helicobacter ( mean basal output : 4.1 mmol/hr vs 2.4 , p less than 0.05 ; mean maximal output 19.5 mmol/hr vs. 14.4 , p less than 0.05 ) . although helicobacter pylori is associated with both gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer , its significance may be different in the two diseases . 
bowel dysfunction in fibromyalgia syndrome . fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome frequently coexist . in this study , we utilized a previously validated self-administered questionnaire to assess the prevalence of symptoms of bowel dysfunction and irritable bowel syndrome in 123 patients with fibromyalgia as compared to 54 patients with degenerative joint disease ( djd ) and 46 normal controls . ninety ( 73 % ) of the fibromyalgia patients reported altered bowel function as compared to 20 ( 37 % ) djd patients and none of the normal controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . ninety-nine patients ( 81 % ) reported normal alternating with irregular bowel pattern , and 77 ( 63 % ) had alternating diarrhea and constipation . in contrast , only 24 ( 44 % ) of djd patients and six ( 13 % ) of controls had regular alternating with irregular bowel pattern and only 12 ( 22 % ) of the djd patients and none of the healthy controls had alternating constipation and diarrhea ( p less than 0.01 ) . other bowel dysfunction complaints noted in the fibromyalgia group were abdominal gas ( 59 % ) , nausea ( 21 % ) , diarrhea ( 9 % ) , and constipation ( 12 % ) . seventy-nine ( 64 % ) fibromyalgia patients reported frequent abdominal pain that was stress-related 47 % of the time . laxative use was frequent in the fibromyalgia group ( 19 % ) and absent in the other two groups . fifty percent of fibromyalgia patients , compared to 28 % of djd patients , felt that their bowel complaints were worse during exacerbations of their joint disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . in conclusion , patients with fibromyalgia have a high prevalence of gastrointestinal complaints that should be carefully assessed . if the diagnosis of ibs is confirmed , appropriate treatment may improve patients ' symptoms , although this approach requires further study . 
scintigraphic assessment of leukocyte infiltration in acute pancreatitis using technetium-99m-hexamethyl propylene amine oxine as leukocyte label . the infiltration of leukocytes has been linked to the pathophysiology of complicated or severe pancreatitis . we have tested the ability of leukocyte scintigraphy using technetium-99m-hexamethyl propylene amine oxine ( hm-pao ) as label to demonstrate the localization of leukocytes in the pancreas during acute pancreatitis . twenty-eight patients with acute pancreatitis ( eight with biliary , 13 with alcoholic , and seven with unknown origin ) were studied with leukocyte scintigraphy using planar imaging and single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) . fourteen patients had a mild ( group i ) , ii a severe ( group ii ) , and three a lethal outcome ( group iii ) of pancreatitis . all patients of group iii , six of group ii , and two of group i had a positive leukocyte scan . thus , the sensitivity of leukocyte scintigraphy for the detection of a lethal course of acute pancreatitis was 100 % , of a severe course 54 % , and of a severe or lethal course 64 % . the specificity of a negative scan for a mild pancreatitis was 86 % . comparison of the results of leukocyte scintigraphy with those of contrast enhanced ct showed that six of eight patients with pancreatic necrosis in ct had a positive leukocyte scan , but only five of 20 patients without detectable pancreatic necrosis in ct . in summary , leukocyte infiltration into the pancreas during pancreatitis can be demonstrated by noninvasive leukocyte scintigraphy using technetium-99m-hm-pao as label . a correlation between the severity of the disease and leukocyte infiltration exists . 
pressure measurements from biliary and pancreatic segments of sphincter of oddi . comparison between patients with functional abdominal pain , biliary , or pancreatic disease . using a minimally compliant infusion system and a triple-lumen pressure recording catheter , we obtained endoscopic manometric measurements from both the common bile duct and pancreatic duct segments of the sphincter of oddi ( so ) in 58 patients . fifteen patients ( ages 27-69 ) had the diagnosis of functional abdominal pain , 19 patients ( ages 30-76 ) had partial biliary obstruction , and 24 patients ( ages 15-80 ) had idiopathic acute recurrent pancreatitis . resting ductal pressure was similar in the common bile duct and pancreatic duct in all patient groups . in the group with functional pain , basal so pressure was similar , whether obtained from the common bile duct or pancreatic duct sphincteric segment . eight of 19 patients with partial biliary obstruction had elevated basal so pressure . five of these eight patients had elevated basal so pressure confined exclusively to the common bile duct segment of the sphincter , while three patients had elevated basal so in both segments . conversely seven of 24 patients with acute recurrent pancreatitis had an elevated basal so pressure , with five patients having pressure elevation only in the pancreatic duct segment while two patients had abnormal basal so pressure in both segments . we conclude that selective cannulation of the common bile duct and/or the pancreatic duct during manometric study of the so is necessary in order to diagnose segmental so dysfunction responsible for partial biliary obstruction or episodes of acute recurrent pancreatitis . 
penetration of lanthanum through the main pancreatic duct epithelium in cats following exposure to infected human bile . the main pancreatic duct epithelium acts as a barrier to the diffusion of molecules from the duct lumen into pancreatic acinar and interstitial tissue . we studied sequential ultrastructural characteristics of the loss of epithelial barrier function in the cat using lanthanum , an electron-opaque tracer , following perfusion of the duct from the tail to the duodenum with infected human bile . tight junctions between duct epithelial cells were found to become permeable to the tracer as early as after 15 min of exposure . later , there was progressive disintegration of intercellular junctions and epithelial loss . lanthanum penetrated the duct epithelium exclusively on an intercellular path . loss of barrier function of the pancreatic duct epithelium was consistently associated with subsequent development of acute interstitial edematous pancreatitis . there was no association between the degree of duct epithelial damage and the severity of acute pancreatitis . both bile and a suspension of bacteria alone were not harmful to the pancreas . sequential perfusion produced acute pancreatitis only when at first bile and then the bacterial suspension was perfused . a reversed succession of perfusates produced no morphologic alterations . we conclude : ( 1 ) increased tight junction permeability is an early lesion in acute bile-induced pancreatitis : ( 2 ) loss of duct epithelial barrier function is important for the initiation but not for the severity of the inflammation ; and ( 3 ) bile renders duct epithelial intercellular junctions vulnerable to escherichia coli bacteria . 
noninvasive measurement of portal venous blood flow in patients with cirrhosis : effects of physiological and pharmacological stimuli . the present study aims to evaluate the usefulness of combined pulse doppler-real-time ultrasonography as a noninvasive method for the measurement of portal blood flow in man . this measurement technique was performed on 12 healthy subjects and 20 patients with portal hypertension . ten patients ( group 1 ) were evaluated prior to and after ingestion of a standard meal ( ensure plus ) or placebo . in the remaining 10 patients ( group 2 ) , the effects of isosorbide dinitrate ( 5 mg/sl ) administration or placebo were studied . in group 1 , food intake caused a significant increase of portal blood flow ( from 1038 + / - 539 to 1572 + / - 759 ml/min , p less than 0.02 ) ; this effect was due to a significant rise in mean blood velocity ( from 18.5 + / - 3.7 to 23.9 + / - 3.9 cm/sec , p less than 0.02 ) . in group 2 , isosorbide dinitrate significantly reduced portal blood flow ( from 985 + / - 491 to 625 + / - 355 ml/min , p less than 0.05 ) ; a significant decline of mean blood velocity ( from 18.8 + / - 4.5 to 14.5 + / - 2.5 cm/sec , p less than 0.02 ) was observed . placebo administration had no significant hemodynamic effects in either group . our results suggest that doppler measurements gave accurate noninvasive estimations of portal blood flow and that this technique may be used to monitor physiological and pharmological stimuli in patients with portal hypertension . 
ulcerative proctitis in central sweden 1965-1983 . a population-based epidemiological study . ulcerative proctitis has by tradition been regarded as a subgroup of ulcerative colitis . population-based epidemiological studies of ulcerative proctitis are , however , virtually nonexistent . in an epidemiological study of inflammatory bowel disease in the uppsala health care region , 1065 cases of ulcerative proctitis were diagnosed from 1965 through 1983 . males predominated , with the male to female ratio 1.4:1 . annual incidence rates were higher in urban than in rural areas . the annual incidence rates increased threefold from 2.8 per 10 ( 5 ) to 6.6 per 10 ( 5 ) during the period , affecting all age groups over 14 years of age , in both urban and rural areas and in both sexes . differences in temporal trends and certain other epidemiological characteristics between ulcerative proctitis and extensive ulcerative colitis suggest that ulcerative proctitis is a specific disease whose etiology differs from that of extensive ulcerative colitis . 
metabolic and health complications of obesity . overnutrition manifested by obesity has emerged as a major health problem in affluent countries . in spite of increased interest in fitness , obesity is on the increase in the united states . this is particularly so among children and adolescents . although obesity is associated with many risk factors for diseases , the mechanisms whereby it enhances disease risk are not fully understood . such an understanding is needed to develop strategies for management of these conditions . in this report we suggest that overnutrition produces clinical diseases only in individuals who already possess a metabolic weakness or " defect " in a given system . in the absence of such underlying defects , overnutrition , or obesity , is well tolerated . one of the most common consequences of obesity is dyslipidemia , that is , elevations of very low-density lipoprotein ( vldl ) triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol and low concentrations of high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol . the major effect of overnutrition on lipoprotein metabolism is to stimulate the production of vldl . for patients who have an underlying defect in lypolysis of vldl triglycerides , hypertriglyceridemia will develop in the obese state . for those who have defective clearance of ldl , obesity will accentuate hypercholesterolemia . both of these effects can be explained by overproduction of vldl , due to obesity , combined with a genetic defect in clearance of vldl or ldl . the mechanism whereby obesity causes a lowering of hdl cholesterol is uncertain , although it could enhance removal of hdl by an excess of adipose tissue . another disease associated with obesity is cholesterol gallstones . the presence of obesity more than doubles the risk for gallstones . two underlying factors increase the danger for gallstones : a deficiency of hepatic secretion of bile acids and a tendency for formation of cholesterol crystals in bile . overnutrition promotes the synthesis of whole-body cholesterol , and the only route for excretion of this excess cholesterol is through the biliary tree . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
proximal esophageal ph-metry in patients with ' reflux laryngitis ' . fiberoptic laryngoscopic examinations were performed on 40 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease , 25 of whom had persistent laryngeal symptoms ( dysphonia , cough , globus sensation , frequent throat clearing , or sore throat ) and 15 without laryngeal symptoms who served as disease controls . ten patients with laryngeal symptoms but none of the controls had laryngoscopic findings consistent with reflux laryngitis . dual-site ambulatory ph recordings were obtained with the ph electrodes spaced 15 cm apart and with the proximal sensor positioned just distal to the upper esophageal sphincter . patients in the three groups ( disease controls : group 1 ; patients with symptoms but without laryngoscopic findings : group 2 ; and patients with both laryngeal symptoms and findings : group 3 ) were comparable in terms of age , smoking habit , the presence of esophagitis , and distal esophageal acid exposure . proximal esophageal acid exposure was , however , significantly increased in groups 2 and 3 , and nocturnal proximal esophageal acidification occurred in over half of these patients but in none of the group 1 patients . we conclude that the subset of reflux patients who experience laryngeal symptoms show significantly more proximal esophageal acid exposure ( especially nocturnally ) and often have laryngoscopic findings of posterior laryngitis not observed in control reflux patients . 
helicobacter pylori infection in pernicious anemia : a prospective controlled study . although some authors believe that helicobacter pylori is the etiologic agent in chronic nonspecific gastritis , it has also been suggested that the bacterium colonizes inflamed mucosa as a secondary event . this study documents the prevalence of h. pylori in 28 patients with pernicious anemia and compares the findings with those of a group of 28 age - , race - , and sex-matched asymptomatic control subjects . all subjects underwent endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric antrum and corpus . a sample of serum was obtained before endoscopy for determination of antibodies ( immunoglobulin a and immunoglobulin g ) to h. pylori . the prevalence of h. pylori ( by biopsy ) in patients with pernicious anemia was significantly less than that in controls ( 11 % vs. 71 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . all patients with pernicious anemia had abnormalities of corpus histology ( inflammation and/or atrophy ) . in addition , 50 % of patients with pernicious anemia had a lymphocytic infiltration of the antrum . all controls with h. pylori had gastritis , 50 % having active chronic gastritis . atrophic changes of the corpus were more commonly found in patients with pernicious anemia ( 75 % vs. 7 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . serology and biopsy results correlated poorly in the patients with pernicious anemia : all 5 patients with positive serology results had negative biopsy results , whereas all 3 patients with positive cultures on biopsy had negative serological studies . in conclusion , patients with pernicious anemia are protected from infection with h. pylori , and h. pylori does not passively colonize mucosa inflamed by an unrelated process . 
the epidemiology of inflammatory bowel disease : a large , population-based study in sweden . previous population-based incidence studies of inflammatory bowel disease are limited by small numbers , short duration , or inadequate case-finding . to address these problems , we identified all persons with confirmed ulcerative colitis ( n = 2509 ) or crohn 's disease ( n = 1469 ) in the uppsala health care region from 1965 to 1983 . age-specific incidence rates by sex were slightly greater for males with ulcerative colitis and females with crohn 's disease . incidence rates for ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease were higher in urban than rural areas . the annual incidence rate of ulcerative colitis increased from less than 7 per 100,000 to more than 12 per 100,000 during the study period , while the rate for crohn 's disease remained between 5 and 7 per 100,000 . the increase in the incidence of ulcerative colitis was the result of a marked increase in the number of patients with ulcerative proctitis . analyses by 5-year birth cohorts suggest that those born from 1945 through 1954 were at higher risk for ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease , and that this effect was accounted for by those born in the first half of the year . the seasonality in the cohort effect , combined with the urban preponderance of disease , suggests that environmental causes may be involved in ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease . 
induction of ps2 and hsp genes as markers of mucosal ulceration of the digestive tract . the recently discovered ps2 protein is expressed under estrogen control in a subset of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancers and in an estrogen-independent manner in normal stomach mucosa . the ps2 gene belongs to a family of genes encoding peptides that contain a conserved 5-cysteine domain , the p domains . although the function of the ps2 protein is unknown , it has been suggested that it may have cell growth stimulatory activity . we report here that expression of the ps2 gene in the digestive tract , which is normally restricted to the stomach , is strongly induced by mucosal ulcerations elsewhere in the tract , most notably in crohn 's disease . ps2 gene expression is restricted to the mucosal layers adjacent to the ulcerations , in a region where a novel epidermal growth factor-secreting cell lineage was shown to be induced by mucosal ulceration . the human hsp gene , which contains a tandem duplication of the ps2 gene p domain and is coexpressed with the ps2 gene in normal stomach mucosa but not in breast cancers , is also expressed in crohn 's disease . we suggest that ps2 gene expression may provide a useful marker for mucosal ulcerations of the digestive tract . 
colonic glycoproteins in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease . colonic glycoprotein composition was evaluated in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease using ion-exchange chromatography . fifty-three individuals , 12 pairs and 1 single twin with ulcerative colitis and 14 pairs with crohn 's disease , were evaluated . seven twin pairs were concordant for the presence of ulcerative colitis or crohn 's disease , whereas twin siblings of 10 ulcerative colitis probands and 9 crohn 's disease probands were not known to have inflammatory bowel disease . content of one chromatographically defined component of colonic mucin , designated hcm species iv , was reduced in both patients with ulcerative colitis ( 1040 + / - 300 cpm/10 ,000 cpm total hcm ) and their apparently healthy twins ( 1340 + / - 540 cpm/10 ,000 cpm total hcm ) compared with control subjects ( 4030 + / - 1,000 cpm/10 ,000 cpm total hcm ) . composition of mucin in crohn 's disease patients and their nonaffected twins was not significantly different than in controls . these observations suggest that altered profiles of mucin glycoprotein may be present before the onset of ulcerative colitis and may be genetically defined . conversely , it appears that alterations in glycoproteins only are not sufficient to initiate mucosal inflammation . 
a controlled trial of psychological treatment for the irritable bowel syndrome . one hundred two patients with irritable bowel syndrome were studied in a controlled trial of psychological treatment involving psychotherapy , relaxation , and standard medical treatment compared with standard medical treatment alone . patients were only selected if their symptoms had not improved with standard medical treatment over the previous 6 months . at 3 months , the treatment group showed significantly greater improvement than the controls on both gastroenterologists ' and patients ' ratings of diarrhea and abdominal pain , but constipation changed little . good prognostic factors included overt psychiatric symptoms and intermittent pain exacerbated by stress , whereas those with constant abdominal pain were helped little by this treatment . this study has demonstrated that psychological treatment is feasible and effective in two thirds of those patients with irritable bowel syndrome who do not respond to standard medical treatment . 
multifocal colitis associated with an epidemic of chronic diarrhea . an outbreak of a chronic diarrheal syndrome was detected between may and august 1987 in rural henderson county , illinois . seventy-two individuals were affected . epidemiological studies performed by the center for disease control implicated the water of a local restaurant as the source of the outbreak . five patients underwent a comprehensive evaluation . their mean age was 51 years , and they had a mean of 12 watery stools daily ( range , 6-40 ) . detailed microbiological evaluations failed to identify a pathological organism . stool studies showed a mean stool weight of 392 g/24 h with a normal fat content . results of all biochemical studies of serum were normal . chemical analysis of stool water suggested a secretory diarrhea . colonoscopy revealed patchy erythema , and light microscopic examination of colonic biopsy specimens revealed multifocal areas of acute inflammation in the superficial mucosa in 4 of 5 patients . electron microscopy of the affected areas revealed no viral particles . after 2 years , all of our patients continued to experience chronic diarrhea . one patient agreed to a follow-up colonoscopy ; histological abnormalities of the colonic mucosa persisted after 2 years . we speculate that an infectious process arising from a contaminated water system induced a chronic , secretory diarrhea characterized by multifocal colitis . this histological abnormality may serve as a marker of an infectious , chronic diarrhea . 
anorectal sensory and motor function in neurogenic fecal incontinence . comparison between multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus . we measured anorectal sensory and motor function in 11 patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence , 11 continent patients with multiple sclerosis , 10 diabetics with fecal incontinence , and 12 healthy control subjects . the threshold volume at which patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence experienced rectal sensation was higher than that in healthy controls ( 42.7 + / - 6.2 ml vs. 13.3 + / - 2.8 ml ; p less than 0.01 ) and was similar to that in incontinent diabetics ( 36.5 + / - 5.7 ml ) . patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinent diabetics also showed increased thresholds of phasic external sphincter contraction compared with controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . diabetics with incontinence had reduced resting and maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures compared with controls ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinence showed only decreased maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures ( p less than 0.01 vs. controls and diabetics ) . incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis also required smaller volumes of rectal distention to inhibit internal sphincter tone compared with diabetics and controls ( p less than 0.01 ) . decreased maximal voluntary squeeze pressures were less severe in continent patients with multiple sclerosis than in incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis . we conclude that impaired function of the external anal sphincter and decreased volumes of rectal distention to inhibit the internal anal sphincter or both may contribute to fecal incontinence in multiple sclerosis . in addition , increased thresholds of conscious rectal sensation in some incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus may contribute to fecal incontinence by impairing the recognition of impending defecation . 
diarrhea in ciguatera fish poisoning : preliminary evaluation of pathophysiological mechanisms . ciguatera fish poisoning is a clinical syndrome consisting of a combination of gastrointestinal and neurological symptoms occurring after eating toxin-containing tropical reef fish ; it is a major cause of morbidity in hawaii , the south pacific , australia , and the caribbean . in an effort to define pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for the diarrheal component of the illness , we examined the effect of crude and fractionated toxin preparations on isolated rabbit ileal tissue in a ussing chamber model . both the crude toxin preparation ( prepared from toxic ctenochaetus strigosus ) and 10 % and 50 % methanol-chloroform toxin fraction ( prepared from a pool of toxic fish samples ) gave a striking increase in transepithelial electrical potential difference and short-circuit current . enterotoxic activity seemed to be mediated by calcium . when examined by light microscopy , the intestinal mucosa was not damaged by the toxin preparations used . our data demonstrate that toxins involved in ciguatera fish poisoning directly stimulate intestinal fluid secretion without accompanying tissue damage and suggest that calcium is the " second messenger " mediating the process . 
selective intestinal decontamination prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . in a prospective randomized study , selective intestinal decontamination with norfloxacin was performed during hospitalization in 32 cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels . the incidence of infections was compared with that in a control group of 31 nontreated cirrhotic patients of similar characteristics . we found a significantly lower incidence of infections [ 1/32 ( 3.1 % ) vs. 13/31 ( 41.9 % ) ; p less than 0.005 ] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [ 0/32 ( 0 % ) vs. 7/31 ( 22.5 % ) ; p less than 0.05 ] in patients receiving norfloxacin . the lower incidence of extraperitoneal infections [ 1/32 ( 3.1 % ) vs. 7/31 ( 22.5 % ) ; p = 0.052 ] in the treated group did not reach statistical significance . the incidence of infections [ 1/28 ( 3.6 % ) vs. 9/22 ( 40.9 % ) ; p less than 0.01 ] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [ 0/28 ( 0 % ) vs. 5/22 ( 22.7 % ) ; p less than 0.05 ] in cirrhotic patients admitted because of ascites was also significantly lower in the treated group . the decrease in the rate of mortality observed in the group undergoing selective intestinal decontamination did not reach statistical significance . these data show that selective intestinal decontamination is useful to prevent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and extraperitoneal infections in hospitalized cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels . 
a rodent model of cirrhosis , ascites , and bacterial peritonitis . we sought to develop a rodent model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and report here the preliminary results of carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis in which ascites and bacterial peritonitis predictably develop . of 41 rats that survived the initial carbon tetrachloride toxicity , 38 ( 92.7 % ) developed cirrhosis with ascites . of these 38 , 21 ( 55.3 % ) developed 24 episodes of ascitic fluid infection without iatrogenic colonization . no surgically treatable source of infection was identified at autopsy in any rat ; therefore , the infections were presumed to be " spontaneous . " eight ( 50 % ) of the 16 rats with culture-positive ascitic fluid at postmortem examination also had spontaneous pleural fluid infection with the same organism . escherichia coli and proteus sp . were the organisms most commonly isolated . this rodent model of cirrhosis with ascites appears to be the first high-yield animal model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . ascitic fluid infection in these rats resembles ascitic fluid infection in humans . this model will allow further investigation of the mechanisms of pathogenesis of ascitic fluid infection and provide insight into the prevention and treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and pleural fluid infection in patients with cirrhosis . 
effect of v1-vasopressin receptor blockade on arterial pressure in conscious rats with cirrhosis and ascites . angiotensin ii blockade with saralasin in human cirrhosis with ascites is associated with a significant reduction in arterial pressure , indicating that endogenous angiotensin ii plays an important role in the maintenance of systemic hemodynamics in this condition . the aim of the current study was to investigate whether vasopressin also contributes to the maintenance of arterial pressure in cirrhosis with ascites . the study was performed using three groups of cirrhotic rats with ascites and three groups of control animals . the administration of d ( ch2 ) 5tyr ( me ) avp , a selective antagonist of the vascular effect of vasopressin , to 10 cirrhotic rats induced a significant reduction in mean arterial pressure ( from 94 + / - 4 to 85 + / - 4 mm hg ; p less than 0.001 ) and a significant increase in plasma renin activity ( from 24.3 + / - 4.9 to 34.3 + / - 5.9 ng/ml . h ; p less than 0.02 ) and plasma norepinephrine concentration ( from 1474 + / - 133 to 2433 + / - 253 pg/ml ; p less than 0.01 ) . similar results were observed following saralasin administration in a second group of 5 cirrhotic rats [ mean arterial pressure decreased from 97 + / - 4 to 85 + / - 5 mm hg ( p less than 0.0001 ) ; and plasma renin activity and norepinephrine concentration increased from 18.4 + / - 5.8 to 40.3 + / - 5.7 ng/ml . h ( p less than 0.02 ) and from 1383 + / - 70 to 2312 + / - 334 pg/ml ( p less than 0.05 ) , respectively ] . the simultaneous blockade of angiotensin ii and vasopressin in a third group of cirrhotic rats resulted in a significantly greater reduction of mean arterial pressure ( from 97 + / - 6 to 74 + / - 6 mm hg ; p less than 0.05 ) . no changes in arterial pressure were observed in the three groups of control rats . these findings indicate that endogenous vasopressin is as important as angiotensin ii in the maintenance of arterial pressure in cirrhotic rats with ascites and support the contention that arterial hypotension is the initial event leading to the stimulation of the renin-angiotensin system and vasopressin in this animal model of cirrhosis . 
hypophosphatemia and renal tubular dysfunction in alcoholics . are they related to liver function impairment ? the study was designed to evaluate ( a ) the role of reduced renal phosphate reabsorptive capacity assessed as the ratio of maximum capacity for renal phosphate reabsorption ( tmpo4 ) to glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) in the pathogenesis of hypophosphatemia in alcoholics , ( b ) possible mechanisms leading to reduced tmpo4/gfr , and ( c ) the effect of liver function impairment on tmpo4/gfr . the tmpo4/gfr , its major extrarenal determinants , ratios of urinary excretion gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and of alpha-glucosidase to gfr ( uggt/gfr and uagl/gfr ) , indices of structural damage of renal tubular cells , and fractional clearance of lysozyme , an index of proximal renal function , were evaluated in 31 alcoholics with alcohol-related liver disease , 24 alcoholics without alcohol-related liver disease , 14 patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease , and 25 control subjects . hypophosphatemia was found in 35 % of alcoholics with alcohol-related liver disease , 29 % of alcoholics without alcohol-related liver disease , and no patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease . a reduced tmpo4/gfr was the major determinant of hypophosphatemia in both groups of alcoholics . no difference in extrarenal determinants of tmpo4/gfr was found between alcoholics with and without hypophosphatemia . alcoholics with and without alcohol-related liver disease had increased uggt/gfr and normal uagl/gfr regardless of serum phosphate level . fractional clearance of lysozyme , instead , was increased only in hypophosphatemic alcoholics with and without alcohol-related liver disease . the tmpo4/gfr correlated inversely with the fractional clearance of lysozyme in both groups of alcoholics ( p less than 0.01 ) . the tmpo4/gfr and urinary enzymes were normal in patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease . it was concluded that a reduced tmpo4/gfr is involved in the pathogenesis of hypophosphatemia in alcoholics . a proximal tubular dysfunction seems to be responsible for the reduced tmpo4/gfr . liver function impairment is not required for the expression of this tubular dysfunction . 
hepatic injury associated with small bowel bacterial overgrowth in rats is prevented by metronidazole and tetracycline . susceptible rat strains develop hepatobiliary injury following the surgical creation of self-filling blind loops that cause small bowel bacterial overgrowth . luminal bacteria or their cell wall polymers were implicated in the pathogenesis of the lesions because sham-operated rats and rats with self-emptying blind loops , having only slightly increased bacterial counts , did not develop hepatic injury . in this study , antibiotics with different spectra of activities were continuously administered starting 1 day or 22 days after surgery to determine which intestinal flora may be responsible for the development of hepatic injury in rats with small bowel bacterial overgrowth . four weeks following surgery , lewis rats with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics had elevated liver histology scores ( 8.2 + / - 1.3 vs. 0.7 + / - 0.4 ) and plasma aspartate aminotransferase levels ( 269 + / - 171 vs. 84 + / - 24 ) compared with sham-operated rats , p less than 0.001 . oral gentamicin as well as oral and intraperitoneal polymyxin b , which binds endotoxin , did not prevent hepatic injury in rats with self-filling blind loops . however , oral metronidazole and tetracycline therapy continuously administered beginning 1 day after surgery diminished hepatic injury ( histology score 3.0 + / - 1.8 , 2.9 + / - 1.1 ; aspartate aminotransferase 87 + / - 25 , 98 + / - 34 ; respectively p less than 0.001 compared with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics ) . metronidazole also protected wistar rats that require 12 weeks to develop hepatic injury following experimentally induced small bowel bacterial overgrowth compared with rats with self-filling blind loops that received no antibiotic treatment ( histology score 10.4 + / - 1.3 vs. 0.7 + / - 1.1 , and aspartate aminotransferase 273 + / - 239 vs. 76 + / - 20 , p less than 0.001 ) . when rats started metronidazole therapy 22 days after self-filling blind loop surgery , elevated aspartate aminotransferase values decreased to normal during the next 77 days and final histology scores were normal . all rats with self-filling blind loops had negative peritoneal , liver , spleen , and blood cultures but approximately 75 % of mesenteric lymph node cultures were positive irrespective of antibiotic treatment . because bacteroides species have been implicated in causing vitamin b12 and disaccharidase deficiencies in rats with self-filling blind loops , we documented the presence or absence of these organisms from blind loops using selective culture techniques . metronidazole and tetracycline eliminated bacteroides sp . from blind loops , but polymyxin b and gentamicin did not . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension : prevalence and relation to splanchnic hemodynamics . the prevalence of pulmonary hypertension in 507 patients hospitalized with portal hypertension but without known pulmonary hypertension who underwent cardiac catheterization was prospectively studied . ten ( 2 % ) of these patients , 6 of whom were clinically asymptomatic , had primary pulmonary hypertension . second , 26 patients with symptomatic pulmonary hypertension complicating portal hypertension were reviewed . pulmonary hypertension occurred later after diagnosis of portal hypertension in patients with a surgical shunt ( 10 patients ) than in those without a shunt ( 147 + / - 49 vs. 44 + / - 27 months ; p less than 0.0001 ) . cardiac index correlated inversely with pulmonary arterial pressure ( r = -0.45 ; p less than 0.01 ) and was lower in the 5 patients who died of pulmonary hypertension than in the 5 who died of liver failure ( 1.52 + / - 0.14 vs. 3.69 + / - 1.88 l/min . m2 ; p less than 0.05 ) . third , systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics were compared in 285 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and 29 controls . no significant relation was found between elevated pulmonary vascular resistance and increased portal pressure , zzygos blood flow , or cardiac index . pulmonary hypertension is considerably more frequent than was previously estimated in patients with portal hypertension . the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension could increase with the duration of portal hypertension without any clear relation to the degree of portal hypertension , hepatic failure , or amount of blood shunted . 
recurrent acute fatty liver of pregnancy associated with a fatty-acid oxidation defect in the offspring . a case of a 29-year-old woman who has had two episodes both clinically and biochemically consistent with acute fatty liver of pregnancy is described . these episodes occurred in two successive pregnancies , and liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in the second pregnancy . both pregnancies were managed by prompt fetal delivery ; on both occasions this led to a complete biochemical resolution of the liver function abnormalities . two healthy babies were delivered by ceasarian sections . this case is of particular importance because a rapidly progressive and devastating illness developed in both infants , leading to death at 6 1/2 and 6 months , respectively . the illness in both babies was characterized by wide-spread fatty infiltration of several vital organs and a failure of any treatment to influence the outcome of that illness . studies suggested that the illness in the children was caused by a still ill-defined disorder of fatty acid oxidation . the biochemical disorder evidenced in this family is discussed , in an attempt to shed light on the etiology of acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
neutrophil dysfunction in glycogen storage disease ib : association with crohn 's - like colitis . two cases of patients with crohn 's - like colitis and glycogen storage disease ib have been reported previously . in the current report , chronic inflammatory bowel disease that developed in another adolescent with this glycogenosis is described , thereby corroborating the association . the neutrophil dysfunction observed in glycogen storage disease ib is the most likely predisposing factor . neutrophil function was investigated in our patient in an attempt to shed light on the pathogenesis of his intestinal inflammation . the patient displayed reduced neutrophil chemotaxis to zymosan-activated serum , n-formyl-methionine-phenylalanine , and escherichia coli bacteria-derived factor and reduced intracellular killing of staphylococcus aureus 502a . others have found this defective bacteriocidal activity to be caused by impaired oxidative metabolism . the recent recognition of chronic inflammatory bowel disease in glycogen storage disease ib , as well as in chronic granulomatous disease , suggests that further study of respiratory burst activity of neutrophils in crohn 's disease is warranted . 
localization of calcitonin gene-related peptide in human esophageal langerhans cells . previously undescribed calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive intraepithelial cells were seen in specimens of esophageal mucosa obtained by biopsy or surgical resection from 14 individuals . these calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive cells were sparsely seen in normal mucosa but increased markedly in esophagitis . they were inaccessible to routine histological stains , but osmication showed them as dendritic forms resembling langerhans cells of the skin . their cytological identity was determined with immunocytochemical tests for human antigenic markers such as ia , hla-dr , and okt6 for langerhans cells , leu-m5 and leu-m3 for intraepithelial macrophages , cd3 and tcr-1 for t-lymphocytes , leu-14 for b-lymphocytes , s-100 for merkel cells , and chromogranin for amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation cells . double localization showed that calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity colocalized with ia , hla-dr , and okt6 but not with the other markers . these studies show that intraepithelial langerhans cells in the esophageal mucosa contain calcitonin gene-related peptide , which may serve as an immunomodulator . 
hyperplastic polyps seen at sigmoidoscopy are markers for additional adenomas seen at colonoscopy . asymptomatic individuals undergoing screening flexible sigmoidoscopy were prospectively studied . polyps were found in 185 subjects . the endoscopist recorded an opinion on the polyps ' histology based on endoscopic appearance . no polyps were removed at sigmoidoscopy . all subjects with rectosigmoid polyps then underwent colonoscopy and polypectomy . of them , 99 subjects ( 54 % ) had at least one rectosigmoid adenoma , 69 ( 37 % ) had only hyperplastic polyps , and 17 ( 9 % ) had other findings . the endoscopists ' opinion of the histopathology of polyps at sigmoidoscopy was correct for 61 % of the lesions . of subjects with adenomatous rectosigmoid polyps , 29 % had additional adenomas at more proximal sites . proximal adenomas were found in 28 % of patients with hyperplastic rectosigmoid polyps . patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps had the same risk for additional proximal adenomas as patients with rectosigmoid adenomatous polyps . 
cirrhosis and portal hypertension in a patient with adult niemann-pick disease . a woman with known niemann-pick disease , type b , presented at age 33 with upper gastrointestinal bleeding , ascites , and peripheral edema . evaluation showed massive hepatosplenomegaly , infiltration of the liver with niemann-pick cells , cirrhosis , and evidence of portal hypertension . chronic gastrointestinal bleeding , thrombocyctopenia , and platelet dysfunction were treated successfully by splenectomy . cirrhosis and portal hypertension have not been reported previously in adult niemann-pick disease in the absence of some other cause . 
mechanisms of gallstone formation in women . effects of exogenous estrogen ( premarin ) and dietary cholesterol on hepatic lipid metabolism . our aim was to define mechanisms whereby conjugated estrogens ( premarin , exogenous estrogen ; ayerst laboratories , new york ) increase the risk of developing cholesterol gallstones and to determine the role , if any , of dietary cholesterol . we studied gallbladder motor function , biliary lipid composition and secretion , cholesterol absorption , cholesterol synthesis and esterification by peripheral blood mononuclear cells , the clearance of chylomicron remnants , and bile acid kinetics in 29 anovulatory women . 13 were studied on both a low ( 443 + / - 119 mumol/d ) and high ( 2,021 + / - 262 mumol/d ) cholesterol diet . premarin increased the lithogenic index of bile ( p less than 0.05 ) , increased biliary cholesterol secretion ( p less than 0.005 ) , lowered chenodeoxycholate ( cdca ) pool ( p less than 0.001 ) and synthesis ( p less than 0.05 ) , altered biliary bile acid composition [ ( ca + dca ] / cdca increases , p less than 0.005 ) , stimulated cholesterol esterification ( p less than 0.03 ) , and enhanced the clearance of chylomicron remnants ( p = 0.07 ) . increases in dietary cholesterol stimulated the biliary secretion of cholesterol ( p = 0.07 ) , bile acid ( p less than 0.05 ) , phospholipid ( p = 0.07 ) , and as a result , did not alter lithogenic index . the reduction in cdca pool and synthesis by premarin was reversed by increasing dietary cholesterol . off premarin , only 24 % of the increase in cholesterol entering the body in the diet was recovered as biliary cholesterol or newly synthesized bile acid . on premarin , 68 % of this increase in cholesterol was recovered as these biliary lipids . we conclude that premarin increases biliary cholesterol by enhancing hepatic lipoprotein uptake and inhibiting bile acid synthesis . these actions of premarin divert dietary cholesterol into bile . 
immunohistochemical demonstration of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor in normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa . specimens of normal and neoplastic colonic mucosa from 52 patients were analysed by immunohistochemistry using a monospecific polyclonal antiserum against human pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor ( psti ) . in normal colonic mucosa psti was found in the goblet cells in the basal parts of the crypts . in adenomas of tubular , villous , and tubulo-villous types psti was also found in the upper parts of the polyps , usually occurring in the regeneration zone . there was a more intense staining reaction in polyps with increased atypia . carcinomas of different types and of various grades of differentiation and of in situ type did not contain psti . these findings indicate that psti could be a marker for adenomatous rather than carcinomatous epithelium in the colon . furthermore , the absence of the inhibitor in malignant cells might facilitate tissue invasion by malignant cells because of deficient protease inhibition . 
non-specific reactions in enzyme linked immunosorbent assays for serum antibody to entamoeba histolytica and giardia lamblia in non-endemic areas . serum samples from 20 indian children with diarrhoea were compared with those from 20 children resident in the united kingdom who had been diagnosed as having ulcerative colitis , or crohn 's disease , or indeterminate colitis using enzyme linked immunosorbent assays specific for entamoeba histolytica and giardia lamblia . more than 50 % of the united kingdom patients had high igg responses in elisas for e histolytica and g lamblia . a confirmatory elisa showed that the british sera reacted specifically to bovine serum proteins rather than to protozoal antigens . prior incubation of sera with 5 % bovine serum prohibited this reaction . bovine serum is an integral part of the crude soluble antigen used in most elisas for e histolytica and g lamblia and needs to be replaced with purified antigen preparations . the british sera also reacted to other commonly used blocking agents such as bovine serum albumin , casein , and normal sheep serum . these reactions were attributed to uptake of dietary antigens or an enhanced immunological response to these antigens in patients with inflammatory bowel disease . 
biphasic modulation of acetaminophen bioactivation and hepatotoxicity by pretreatment with the interferon inducer polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid . interferons and interferon induction can inhibit cytochromes p-450 and reduce the bioactivation and hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen . however , since p-450 inhibition often is followed by p-450 induction , which would enhance acetaminophen hepatotoxicity , the possibility of a biphasic modulation of acetaminophen hepatotoxicity by interferons was investigated . outbred male cd-1 mice of various ages , and young inbred male c57bl/6 mice were given the interferon inducer , polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid ( poly i-c ) , 10 mg/kg intraperitoneally , followed 1 to 48 days later by a single dose of acetaminophen , 300 to 450 mg/kg intraperitoneally . hepatotoxicity was assessed by the peak plasma concentration of alanine aminotransferase ( alt ) occurring between 0 and 48 hr after acetaminophen treatment . poly i-c inhibited the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen given within 8 days , with maximal inhibition between 1 and 4 days . conversely , a maximal 7-fold enhancement of alt concentration was observed in cd-1 mice when 300 mg/kg of acetaminophen was given 32 days after poly i-c ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the c57bl/6 strain , poly i-c inhibited the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen when given within 16 days , whereas a maximal 20-fold enhancement of alt concentration was observed when 300 mg/kg of acetaminophen was given 24 days after poly i-c ( p less than 0.05 ) . the mechanism of toxicologic enhancement was examined in male c57bl/6 mice using the same treatment regimen . biochemical assessment of hepatotoxicity was confirmed by detailed histologic evaluation . plasma concentrations of acetaminophen and metabolites were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography . acetaminophen bioactivation was quantified by production of the glutathione-derived cysteine and mercapturic acid conjugates of acetaminophen . poly i-c pretreatment produced a 5-fold increase in acetaminophen-induced alt release ( p less than 0.05 ) , which correlated with histologic evidence of centrilobular necrosis . poly i-c pretreatment produced respective 3-fold and 1.3-fold increases in the production of cysteine and mercapturic acid conjugates ( p less than 0.05 ) , which correlated with peak alt concentrations ( cysteine , r = 0.92 , p less than 0.001 ; mercapturic acid , r = 0.75 , p = 0.006 ) . thus , the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen can be inhibited when given within days after interferon induction , and conversely enhanced when given after several weeks . the toxicologic enhancement appears to be due to increased p-450-catalyzed bioactivation of acetaminophen . 
glutathione disulfide formation and oxidant stress during acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity in mice in vivo : the protective effect of allopurinol . acetaminophen ( 500 mg/kg i.p. ) induced hepatotoxicity in fasted icr mice in vivo . acetaminophen also caused a long-lasting 50 % reduction of the hepatic atp content , an irreversible loss of hepatic xanthine dehydrogenase activity and a transient increase of the xanthine oxidase activity . all effects occurred before parenchymal cell damage , i.e. , the release of cellular enzymes . the hepatic content of gsh and gssg was initially depleted by acetaminophen without affecting the gssg : gsh ratio ( 1:200 ) , however , during the recovery phase of the hepatic gsh levels the gssg content increased faster than gsh , resulting in a gssg : gsh ratio of 1:18 24 h after acetaminophen administration . the mitochondrial gssg content increased from 2 % in controls to greater than 20 % in acetaminophen-treated mice . the extremely elevated tissue gssg levels were accompanied by a 4-fold increase of the plasma gssg concentrations but not by an enhanced biliary efflux , although hepatic gssg formation and biliary excretion were not affected by acetaminophen . allopurinol protected dose-dependently against acetaminophen-induced cell injury , the loss of atp and the increase of the gssg content in the total liver and in the mitochondrial compartment without inhibiting reactive metabolite formation . high , protective as well as low , nonprotective doses of allopurinol almost completely inhibited hepatic xanthine oxidase and dehydrogenase activity , but only high doses prevented the increase of the mitochondrial gssg content . the data indicate a long-lasting , primarily intracellular oxidant stress during the progression phase of acetaminophen-induced cell necrosis . the protective effect of allopurinol is unlikely to involve the inhibition of reactive oxygen formation by xanthine oxidase but could be the result of its antioxidant property . 
experimental reduction of portal hypertension by mechanical increase of liver portal flow studies on the isolated perfused rat liver demonstrated that an increase in portal pressure is associated with an increase in the portal blood flow in normal and in cirrhotic livers . in two pigs with portal hypertension mesenteric portal pressure was lowered by mechanically increasing the liver portal blood flow by means of a balloon pump around the portal vein . 
upper gastrointestinal bleeding in relation to previous use of analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . catalan countries study on upper gastrointestinal bleeding to assess the risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with the use of individual non-narcotic analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) , a multicentre study of 875 cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding and 2682 hospital controls was done . with control for confounding factors , the overall odds ratio estimate for aspirin taken at least once during the week before the first symptom was 7.2 ( 95 % confidence interval 5.4-9 .6 ) . non-aspirin nsaids associated with upper gastrointestinal bleeding were diclofenac ( 7.9 [ 4.3-14 .6 ] ) , indomethacin ( 4.9 [ 2.0-12 .2 ] ) , naproxen ( 6.5 [ 2.2-19 .6 ] ) , and piroxicam ( 19.1 [ 8.2-44 .3 ] ) . paracetamol , propyphenazone , and dipyrone did not increase the risk . a previous history of gastrointestinal bleeding or peptic ulcer did not greatly affect odds ratio estimates , which differed according to sex and were higher for younger than for older patients . however , the incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding was higher among the elderly . 
gingival and cutaneous xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis . report of a case . the first comprehensive case report of intraoral xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis is detailed . the lesions were present along the free gingival margin and labial vestibule . crevicular fluid was noted to be tinged yellow . generalized cutaneous eruptions were also seen . the xanthomas were attributed to the underlying hyperlipoproteinemia . advanced progression of the hepatic disease necessitated a liver transplant . disappearance of both oral and skin lesions were subsequently observed . 
would you recognize celiac axis syndrome ? since its original description , celiac axis syndrome has been a topic of debate . clinical findings include postprandial abdominal pain , weight loss , and an epigastric bruit . diagnosis is often made by exclusion and is confirmed by lateral aortography . the role of surgery in treating celiac axis syndrome is controversial . 
cholecystokinin enhanced hepatobiliary scanning with ejection fraction calculation as an indicator of disease of the gallbladder . chronic acalculous cholecystitis represents 5 to 20 per cent of electively treated diseases of the gallbladder . a 70 per cent success rate in relieving these patients of chronic pain was reported when surgical treatment was recommended based on symptoms alone . the cholecystokinin ejection fraction , which is a quantitative measure of emptying of the gallbladder , was 95 per cent accurate in predicting which patients would be relieved of symptoms by surgical treatment . in this study , we report our consecutive experience during a 20 month period with 83 patients . 
isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening for short bowel syndrome . because of improvements in supportive care , many infants now survive massive intestinal loss and have short bowel syndrome . unfortunately , some survivors are left with an insufficient amount of intestine and can not be weaned from total parenteral nutrition . an isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening procedure was used to treat surgically two such infants with 25 centimeters of remaining small intestine and absent ileocecal valves . this surgical technique longitudinally divides the short , dilated small intestine into two smaller , parallel lumens that are anastomosed end to end . this procedure preserves all mucosa , prolongs transit time by doubling intestinal length and corrects the ineffective peristalsis by tapering the dilated intestine . the lengthening technique can be performed because of the anatomic division of the intestinal vasculature within two leaves of the mesentery . longitudinal division between the two leaves maintains vasculature to each side of the intestine . the isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening procedure , as it was successfully applied to two infants , is described in detail . 
differences in expression of cystic fibrosis in blacks and whites . the recent identification of the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene confirms that genetic heterogeneity occurs in cf. a three-base-pair deletion in exon 10 resulting in a loss of the phenylalanine residue at amino acid position 508 of the gene product , termed the cf conductance regulator protein , accounts for 70 % of cases of cf in white subjects . however , this gene defect occurs in only 37 % of affected blacks . analysis of cf genes from american blacks has revealed a number of mutations , most of which are unique to that population . we therefore searched for potential differences in expression of cf between 24 black and 48 white patients with cf matched for birth date and gender . black patients more frequently presented with only respiratory symptoms ( 38 % vs 10 % ) . black patients had fewer hospitalizations for pulmonary exacerbations ( 2 vs 6.9 ) , a better mean forced vital capacity ( 77 % vs 62 % of predicted ) , and higher chest roentgenogram scores ( 18.2 vs 14.4 ) than white patients . complication rates were similar except for a higher incidence of hyponatremic dehydration ( 21 % vs 2 % ) and peptic ulcer disease ( 13 % vs 0 % ) in blacks . survival time appeared to be longer in blacks , but the difference was not statistically significant . we conclude that phenotypic differences exist between black and white patients with cf , which may be due to the genetic heterogeneity between these two populations . 
pearson syndrome and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy in a patient with a deletion of mtdna . a patient is described who has features of pearson syndrome and who presented in the neonatal period with a hypoplastic anemia . he later developed hepatic , renal , and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction . at the age of 5 years he developed visual impairment , tremor , ataxia , proximal muscle weakness , external ophthalmoplegia , and a pigmentary retinopathy ( kearns-sayre syndrome ) . muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of mitochondrial myopathy . analysis of mtdna from leukocytes and muscle showed mtdna heteroplasmy in both tissues , with one population of mtdna deleted by 4.9 kb . the deleted region was bridged by a 13-nucleotide sequence occurring as a direct repeat in normal mtdna . both pearson syndrome and kearns-sayre syndrome have been noted to be associated with deletions of mtdna ; they have not previously been described in the same patient . these observations indicate that the two disorders have the same molecular basis ; the different phenotypes are probably determined by the initial proportion of deleted mtdnas and modified by selection against them in different tissues . 
immunochemical studies of ferrochelatase protein : characterization of the normal and mutant protein in bovine and human protoporphyria . protoporphyria is a hereditary disorder characterized by a marked decrease in the activity of ferrochelatase , the terminal enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway . we have prepared specific polyvalent antibodies against bovine ferrochelatase in rabbits . the specificity of the antibody preparation against ferrochelatase was demonstrated by western blot analysis and immunoprecipitation of ferrochelatase activity . the antibody also cross-reacted weakly with ferrochelatase from human mitochondria . to quantify immunoreactive ferrochelatase in tissue samples , a kinetic-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( k-elisa ) was developed . ferrochelatase activity and the level of immunoreactive protein were measured in hepatic mitochondria isolated from six normal and nine protoporphyric ( homozygous ) cattle . ferrochelatase activity was less than 10 % of normal in mitochondria from protoporphyric animals ; the amount of immunoreactive material was equivalent to that from normal animals . similar studies were performed with samples from three normal and two protoporphyric ( heterozygous ) humans . ferrochelatase activity was decreased in protoporphyric samples ( about 17 % of normal , but there was no concomitant decrease in immunoreactive material . these data demonstrate that a normal amount of ferrochelatase protein is present and suggest that bovine and human protoporphyria result from point mutations in the gene encoding ferrochelatase . 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of doxacurium in normal patients and in those with hepatic or renal failure . we determined the pharmacokinetics and duration of action of a bolus dose of doxacurium ( 15 micrograms/kg ) in 27 patients anesthetized with isoflurane and nitrous oxide . nine patients had normal renal and liver functions and were undergoing a variety of surgical procedures , nine were undergoing cadaveric kidney transplantation because of end-stage renal disease , and nine were undergoing cadaveric liver transplantation because of end-stage hepatocellular disease . plasma concentrations of doxacurium were measured for 6 h after administration using a sensitive and specific capillary gas chromatographic assay . plasma concentration versus time data were analyzed by a noncompartmental method based on statistical moments . neuromuscular blockade was assessed by measuring the electromyographic evoked response of the adductor pollicis muscle to train-of-four stimulation of the ulnar nerve . the degree of neuromuscular blockade after doxacurium administration was described as the percent of control of the first train-of-four response . the pharmacokinetic variables were ( normal vs hepatic failure vs renal failure , respectively ) : volume of distribution at steady state ( 220 + / - 110 vs 290 + / - 60 vs 270 + / - 130 ml/kg [ mean + / - sd ] ) , plasma clearance ( 2.7 + / - 1.6 vs 2.3 + / - 0.4 vs 1.2 + / - 0.7 ml.kg-1 . min-1 ) , mean residence time ( 95.2 + / - 57 vs 129.4 + / - 30 vs 270 + / - 210 min ) , and elimination half-life ( 99 + / - 54 vs 115 + / - 31 vs 221 + / - 156 min ) . plasma clearance and mean residence time differed significantly between patients with renal failure and control patients . 
computerized identification of pathologic duodenogastric reflux using 24-hour gastric ph monitoring . duodenogastric reflux is a naturally occurring sporadic event , the incidence , occurrence , and detrimental effects of which have been difficult to assess . the reliability of 24-hour gastric ph monitoring to detect duodenogastric reflux was studied . central to the use of ph monitoring for this purpose is confidence in its ability to measure and display ph data in a way that reflects changes in the gastric ph environment with sufficient sensitivity . to test this the gastric ph of 10 dogs was measured in the fasting state , after feeding , and after pentagastrin stimulation . the antrum was more alkaline in the fasting state ( p less than 0.01 ) and the display of data by frequency distribution graph was sensitive enough to reflect induced ph changes . to test the consistency of gastric ph at a given position , simultaneous 24-hour gastric monitoring was performed in 12 normal subjects with two probes placed at either 5 or 10 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter . only at the 5-cm position did the two probes read within 1 ph unit of each other more than 90 % of the time . based on these principles , gastric ph monitoring was performed 5 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter in 30 normal subjects and 11 patients , fulfilling ritchie 's clinical criteria for pathologic duodenogastric reflux . the data obtained was arranged into 71 variables and subjected to discriminant analysis . sixteen variables were identified , each with a corresponding coefficient to be used as a multiplier to derive a score . a score of more than +2.2 indicated a high probability of pathologic duodenogastric reflux . the test was applied to a validation population consisting of 10 additional normal subjects and 10 patients meeting ritchie 's criteria . all normal subjects had a normal score and all but one ( 90 % ) of the patients had an abnormal score . when compared to o-diisopropyl iminodiacetic acid ( disida ) scintigraphy in another group of 22 normal subjects and 60 patients , 24-hour gastric ph monitoring was superior in the detection of pathologic duodenogastric reflux . the study shows how the application of computer technology can be used to diagnose pathologic duodenogastric reflux in patients with complex foregut complaints . 
cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis . cholangiocarcinoma is more likely to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis . our aims were to describe the clinical presentation , course , and management of patients afflicted with both cholangiocarcinoma and primary sclerosing cholangitis and to estimate the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis . a retrospective analysis was conducted of 30 patients with both primary sclerosing cholangitis and cholangiocarcinoma managed at our institution during an 8-year period . development of cholangiocarcinoma was heralded by rapid clinical deterioration with jaundice , weight loss , and abdominal discomfort . cholangiocarcinoma complicating primary sclerosing cholangitis often was detected at an advanced tumor stage , which precluded effective therapy , and overall median survival was 5 months . earlier recognition and treatment of cholangiocarcinoma in such patients will be necessary to increase survival rates . seventy patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis were followed prospectively in a clinical trial of medical therapy for an average of 30 months . twelve patients died and five were found at autopsy to have cholangiocarcinoma . the potential for cholangiocarcinoma to develop in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis may indicate that liver transplantation should be considered earlier in the course of the disease . 
safety and efficacy of laparoscopic cholecystectomy . a prospective analysis of 100 initial patients laparoscopic cholecystectomy quickly emerged as an alternative to open cholecystectomy . however its safety , efficacy , and morbidity have yet to be fully evaluated . during the first 6 months of 1990 , we performed 100 consecutive laparoscopic cholecystectomies with no deaths and a morbidity rate of 8 % ( 8 of 100 patients ; 4 major , 4 minor ) . there were 81 women and 19 men , with a mean age of 46.1 years ( range , 17 to 84 years ) . all patients had a preoperative history consistent with symptomatic biliary tract disease , and most had proved gallstones by sonography . this included four patients with acute cholecystitis . mean operating time improved significantly from month 1 to month 6 ( 122 + / - 45.4 minutes versus 78.5 + / - 30 minutes , respectively ) , indicating a rapid learning curve . mean hospital stay was 27.6 hours , reflecting a policy of overnight stay . postoperative narcotic requirements were limited to oral or no medications in more than 70 % of patients . a regular diet was tolerated by 83 % of the patients by the morning following the procedure . median time of return to full activity was 12.8 + / - 6.8 days after operation . in addition analysis of the hospital costs of these 100 cases demonstrates a modest cost advantage over standard open cholecystectomy ( n = 58 ) ( mean , $ 3620.25 + / - $ 1005.00 versus $ 4251.76 + / - $ 988.00 ) . there was one minor bile duct injury requiring laparotomy and t-tube insertion , two postoperative bile collections , and one clinical diagnosis of a retained stone that passed spontaneously . four patients required conversion to open cholecystectomy because of technical difficulties with the dissection . although there is a significant learning curve , laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a safe and effective procedure that can be performed with minimal risk . laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be performed by surgeons who are trained in biliary surgery and knowledgeable in biliary anatomy , and , as with all operations , it should be performed with meticulous attention to technique . 
intra-abdominal abscess in regional enteritis . intra-abdominal abscess ( iaa ) developed in 129 of 610 patients ( 21.2 % ) with crohn 's disease confined to the small bowel . the location of the abscess was intraperitoneal ( ipa ) in 109 ( 17.9 % ) and retroperitoneal ( rpa ) in 20 ( 3.3 % ) . there was a marked preponderance of male patients in the retroperitoneal group ( ratio , 18:2 ) ( p less than 0.0001 ) . all 129 patients were operated on . thirteen of one hundred nine patients ( 12 % ) with ipa were reoperated on for recurrent abscess , and nine ( 8.2 % ) for other reasons . external fistula developed in 24 patients ( 22 % ) after simple incision and drainage . four ( 3.7 % ) died ; one from hepatitis , and three from sepsis 5 , 14 , and 90 days after surgery . of the 20 patients with rpa , two ( 10 % ) were reoperated on for recurrent abscess and four ( 20 % ) for other reasons . external fistula developed in two patients ( 10 % ) . there were no deaths in this group . a small number of patients with iaa complicating regional enteritis had persistent sepsis causing postoperative death , which is , however , six times lower than in our comparable series of crohn 's ( ileo ) colitis . 
risks of intestinal anastomoses in crohn 's disease . six hundred fifty-eight intestinal anastomoses in 429 operations for crohn 's disease were studied prospectively during an 8-year period to detect variables connected with perioperative morbidity . postoperative complications occurred in 9.7 % of the patients , 4 % had to be reoperated on , and the overall mortality rate was 0.5 % . in multivariate analysis by stepwise logistic regression , the only variable significantly ( p = 0.03 ) associated with overall rate of complications was long-term corticosteroid therapy . serious complications were more common in cases of intra-abdominal abscesses ( p = 0.01 ) and preoperative steroid medication ( p = 0.03 ) . the combination of both of these risk factors increased the rate of reoperations from 0.6 % ( no steroids , no abscess ) to 16 % ( steroids and abscess ) . no significant association with postoperative complications could be found for age , sex , duration of disease , previous operations , nutritional status , emergency surgery , extent of disease , type , number , and localization of anastomoses , presence of proximal ileo - / colostomy , or histologically inflamed margins of resection . 
liver transplantation in children . although liver transplantation is now accepted as the ideal therapy for end-stage liver disease , relatively few centers have gained a large experience in children , and good results have been elusive . technical difficulty and a high incidence of graft failure are among the obstacles to success . at the university of california at los angeles , 39 % of our liver transplants are in the patients who are younger than 18 years . we have analyzed our experience with 103 patients to emphasize factors important to a favorable outcome with the procedure . one hundred twenty-three transplants were performed in 103 children ( mean age , 5.2 years ; 48 % younger than 3 years ) . no reduced-size grafts were used . scrupulous attention to technical details of the vascular reconstruction , including frequent use of the supraceliac aorta of the recipient and interrupted suture techniques , ensured construction of sound hepatic artery and portal vein anastomoses at the first operation . preoperative exchange transfusions were used if the prothrombin time was prolonged beyond 7 seconds , resulting in an average blood loss of only 3.3 volumes . cyclosporine dosage was maintained in the high therapeutic range for the first 4 weeks , and anti-t-cell antibody ( okt3 ) was used for rejection ( 38 % ) . amphotericin prophylaxis was used for biliary atresia patients with multiple previous operations . eighty-two of one hundred three patients ( 80 % ) are alive . there were no intraoperative deaths . actuarial survival rates at 6 months , 1 year , and 5 years are 80 % , 79 % , and 77 % , respectively . survival of patients who underwent transplantation at age less than 1 year is 65 % versus 85 % at age more than 1 year ( p = 0.08 ) . retransplantation was performed in 19 patients ( 18 % ) , with a survival rate of 58 % . hepatic artery thrombosis , the most frequent technical complication , occurred in only 16 patients ( 13 % ) . survival rates of abo identical-match versus nonidentical-match grafts were 96 % and 60 % , respectively ( p = 0.02 ) . graft survival was only 47 % if more than one steroid cycle was needed , compared to 75 % survival with okt3 treatment . despite impairment of renal function ( glomerular filtration rate [ gfr ] less than 80 cc/kg/min ) in 54 % of patients and hypertension requiring therapy in 27 % , 90 % of the children demonstrated enhancement of growth , development , and functional status . the following conclusions were made . ( 1 ) pediatric liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for all types of end-stage liver disease and should be considered early . ( 2 ) factors that enhance survival include technical precision , aggressive retransplantation , antifungal chemoprophylaxis and therapy , and judicious immunosuppression with use of okt3 for rejection . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
new surgical approach to complicated gastroesophageal reflux disease : transthoracic parietal cell vagotomy . surgical treatment of peptic stricture of the esophagus associated with columnar ( barrett ) metaplasia can be a difficult problem . collis-nissen fundoplication restores an intraabdominal antireflux barrier for most cases of peptic stricture ; however , 20 % of patients may have persistence of pathological acid reflux . by reducing acidity of postoperative reflux , parietal cell vagotomy may complement nonresectional surgical results for barrett stricture . 
intrathoracic nissen fundoplication : long-term clinical and ph-monitoring evaluation . from 1976 until april 1989 , 31 intrathoracic total fundoplications were performed for reflux esophagitis and irreducible hiatus hernia . in the first 16 patients ( group 1 ) the operation was complicated with acute perforation of the wrap in 4 cases , bronchogastric fistula in 1 , and herniation of the wrap higher in the chest in 1 . technical modifications were applied to 15 more recent patients ( group 2 ) . these are enlargement of the hiatus , looseness of the wrap and its appropriate anchorage , avoidance of forceps when handling the stomach , care with the vagi , and efficient gastric decompression in the postoperative period . the postoperative course was always uneventful in group 2 . twenty-six patients , who still have their initial wrap , were considered for clinical evaluation : 11 from group 1 ( mean follow-up , 81.5 months ) and 15 from group 2 ( mean follow-up , 32.8 months ) . all are free from any symptom of reflux ; gas-bloat syndrome is infrequent and dysphagia is relieved . twenty-four-hour ph monitoring , performed in 14 patients ( 3 from group 1 and 11 from group 2 ) ( mean follow-up , 42 months ) , was normal in 13 ; a pathological upright reflux ( time ph less than 4 , 8.4 % ) was demonstrated in one symptom-free woman in whom endoscopy was unremarkable . mechanisms of complications experienced in group 1 are analyzed in the light of the technical evolution of the procedure , and the place of the intrathoracic total fundoplication in the management of short esophagus is defined , considering the other available surgical techniques . 
a tongue force measurement system for the assessment of oral-phase swallowing disorders . a computer-aided measuring system using a highly sensitive beam transducer has been developed to provide a quantitative , reliable measure of tongue strength . this tool has application in both the diagnosis and treatment of dysphagic patients with oral-stage dysfunction . the device is customized to comfortably adapt to each individual . audiovisual feedback is used to enhance subject interest and motivation . the device has proven reliable in measurements of upward and side tongue thrust in six able-bodied subjects measured during five separate sessions . it has also been used with two dysphagic patients . 
effect of aerosolized fibrin solution on intraperitoneal contamination . the potential deleterious effects of aerosolized fibrin on contaminated procedures were investigated in a rat model of peritonitis . one hundred forty rats were divided into two groups . in the control group , gelatin capsules containing feces ( 10 ( 7 ) bacteria per milliliter ) and barium sulfate at various dilutions were placed into the abdomen ; in the second experimental group , a solution of cryoprecipitate , thrombin , and calcium was sprayed diffusely into the peritoneal cavity after similar fecal contamination . fecal inocula with low bacterial concentrations ( 0.01 , 0.1 , and 0.15 ml ) caused few deaths from peritonitis or abscess formation in either group . heavy peritoneal contamination ( 0.25 , 0.3 , and 0.5 ml ) caused early deaths from peritonitis in both groups , with 80 % of the deaths due to sepsis in the first 48 hours . however , in the moderately contaminated rats ( 0.2 ml of fecal inoculate ) , fibrin aerosol reduced the 10-day mortality from 80 % to 10 % . in all survivors in the fibrin-treated group , intraperitoneal abscesses developed . with intraperitoneal bacterial concentrations of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) organisms , early acute mortality from fibrinopurulent peritonitis is decreased at the expense of late , localized , nonlethal abscess formation . aerosolized fibrin solution must be used with caution in contaminated surgery . 
intussusception and the diagnostic value of testing stool for occult blood . a retrospective review was performed to determine the diagnostic value of testing for occult blood in stool of children suspect for intussusception . ninety-six children had barium enema studies for suspected intussusception . of the 57 children who had barium enema confirmed intussusception , 29 did not have history or physical findings of gross blood per rectum . stool was tested for occult blood in 16 of these 29 patients , and 12 ( 75 % ) were positive . in comparison , three ( 20 % ) of the children who did not have intussusception had stool positive for occult blood . stool with occult blood was significantly associated with intussusception ( p less than .002 ) . the only other clinical factor significantly associated with intussusception was abdominal mass ( p less than .02 ) . vomiting , episodic irritability , poor feeding , abdominal pain and lethargy were not significantly different in the two groups . in conclusion , the authors suggest stool testing for occult blood when evaluating children who present with nonspecific signs and symptoms supportive of intussusception . 
oral indomethacin for acute renal colic . a number of studies have suggested that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents can relieve renal colic by a mechanism of action different from that of narcotics , offering the potential advantage of avoiding narcotic side-effects such as alteration of mental status . the authors prospectively administered oral indomethacin , 50 mg , to 25 nonvomiting patients with acute renal colic due to a documented stone . eleven patients group ( i ) received the drug in an unblinded , nonrandomized fashion after failure of oral or parenteral narcotics to provide satisfactory pain relief , either at home or in the emergency department . in 14 additional patients group ( ii ) indomethacin was given as the only initial treatment . pain intensity before and after treatment was reported using a 1-to-10 scale . in group i , pain decreased from 5.8 + / - 2.7 to 3.6 + / - 3.8 ( p less than .02 ) . six of the 11 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50 % or more , which occurred within 25 + / - 11 minutes , and in 5 of these 6 , pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level . in group ii , pain decreased from 7.6 + / - 1.5 to 4.6 + / - 4.0 ( p less than .008 ) . eight of the 14 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50 % or more , which occurred within 40 + / - 14 minutes , and in 5 of these 8 pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level . among all 25 patients who received indomethacin , pain relief was not significantly associated with the duration of pain before treatment or with patient age or sex . there was a trend for pretreatment pain intensity to be higher among nonresponders ( p = .07 ) . 
perianal streptococcal cellulitis with penile involvement . perianal streptococcal cellulitis is described occurring in a 5-year-old boy . the condition also involved the penis and presented as a possible case of sexual abuse . the correct diagnosis was established by culturing beta-haemolytic streptococci group a from the penile and perianal skin . 
treatment of renal colic by prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors and avafortan ( analgesic antispasmodic ) . in a study of the pain-relieving effect of 3 drugs commonly used to treat acute renal colic in this hospital , intravenous indomethacin and intramuscular diclofenac ( prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors ) were compared with intravenous avafortan ( analgesic antispasmodic ) . as first-line analgesics , prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors , if given intravenously , offer an effective alternative to avafortan . of 145 patients studied , 32 required a second injection for complete relief of pain . administering a second dose of prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors resulted in equally significant pain relief rate even though the route was intramuscular . 
limitation of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization using iodized oil for small hepatocellular carcinoma . a study in resected cases . the radiologic and histologic findings are presented of the resection of 14 small hepatocellular carcinomas ( hcc ) , less than 2 cm in maximum diameter , after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization ( tce ) using iodized oil . the effect of tce on small hcc depended on the morphologic type of the tumors . when no extracapsular invasion of tumor cells occurred , tce was extremely effective against encapsulated tumors . however , in nine of the 14 resected specimens , viable tumor cells remained in or around the tumor . the authors suggest that small hcc are not always curable with tce alone and that a multi-disciplinary approach is necessary for patients with small hcc . 
differential alpha-fetoprotein lectin binding in hepatocellular carcinoma . diagnostic utility at low serum levels . the reactivity of serum alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) from 20 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) with immobilized lentil lectin was examined and found to be significantly greater ( 39 % + / - 18 % ) than that of the same protein from seven patients with chronic liver disease ( cld , 11.2 % + / - 3.3 % ) , seven with fulminant hepatic failure ( fhf , 10 % + / - 8.4 % ) , and eight normal pregnant women ( 4.1 % + / - 2.7 % ) . the reactivity with concanavalin a ( con a ) was also significantly greater for afp from hcc patients ( 44.5 % + / - 12.5 % ) than that from fhf patients ( 7.7 % + / - 4 % ) and normal pregnant women ( 5.3 % + / - 3.3 % ) , but not from patients with cld . the reactivity with lentil lectin permitted distinction between those with hcc ( 31.3 % + / - 14.1 % ) and those with uncomplicated cld ( 11.2 % + / - 8.4 % ) even when the absolute levels of serum afp were in the same range ( 80-400 ng/ml ) . evaluation of the alterations by lectin binding methodology may be useful in overcoming problems associated with distinguishing between malignant and cld , particularly at moderate serum afp elevations . 
plasma thrombin-antithrombin iii complexes in the diagnosis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma complicating liver cirrhosis . detection of hypercoagulable state might be helpful in the diagnosis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) complicating liver cirrhosis ( lc ) . plasma levels of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex ( tat ) were determined in 50 patients of lc with or without hcc . the levels were above 2 ng/ml in 80 % of 25 hcc patients , but only in 12 % of 25 non-hcc patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . the levels over 2 ng/ml occurred even in five of six hcc patients whose serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were below 20 ng/ml as well as in two of three patients with hcc less than 2 cm in diameter . those levels in hcc patients were significantly decreased within 8 days after treatment with transcatheter arterial embolization or infusion of antitumor agents , without affecting plasma antithrombin iii levels . these results suggest that plasma tat levels may be useful in the diagnosis of hcc complicating lc . 
a pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside , " spread-out " or " up-front , " in continuation therapy for childhood non-t , non-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia . a pediatric oncology group study . one hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-t - , non-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) were treated in a pediatric oncology group ( pog ) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) and cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) ( 1 g/m2 each ) were added to a " backbone " of standard continuation therapy . the dose and sequence of mtx/ara-c administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between mtx and ara-c . poor-risk patients ( n = 49 ) were assigned to " up-front " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission . standard-risk patients ( n = 57 ) were assigned to " spread-out " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment . toxicity after intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c , principally neutropenia and fever , was judged significant but manageable . unexpectedly , the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after " spread-out " therapy ( 38 % ) than after " up-front " therapy ( 6 % ) . at 4 years , the kaplan-meier estimate of event-free survival ( efs ) is 71 % ( + / - 7 % ) for standard-risk patients and 53 % ( + / - 8 % ) for poor-risk patients . the results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c in additional studies . 
appraisal of gut lavage in the study of intestinal humoral immunity . direct investigation of intestinal humoral immunity requires collection of intestinal secretions or mucosal biopsy specimens , or both . a non-invasive technique of gut lavage , with a polyethyleneglycol electrolyte lavage solution as a means of collecting intestinal secretions for immunoglobulin and antibody studies , was evaluated . fifty patients were studied -- 25 immunologically normal patients or volunteers , 15 patients with untreated coeliac disease , and 10 patients with active crohn 's disease . protease inhibitors were added promptly to samples to prevent proteolysis of immunoglobulin content . treated lavage samples were assayed by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay for immunoglobulin and antibody content . studies of serial lavage specimens showed that early , faecally contaminated specimens contained negligible quantities of immunoglobulin , but once the specimens became clear a steady state was reached , with little variation in immunoglobulin content between serial specimens and with a uniform dilution ( around 20 % ) of the ingested polyethyleneglycol . gut lavage fluid iga was predominantly secretory , comprising 92 % , 81.6 % , and 76.7 % respectively of the total iga gut lavage fluid content in the control , coeliac , and crohn 's groups . high values of total igm and iga and igm antigliadin antibodies were detected in the coeliac group , and high values of igg in the crohn 's disease group . this method of gut lavage is not only an effective bowel cleanser , but also a noninvasive means of obtaining intestinal secretions for the study of humoral immunity in gastrointestinal disease . 
jejunal immunoglobulin and antigliadin antibody secretion in adult coeliac disease . we compared the local intestinal immunoglobulin ( ig ) secretion in six adult patients with coeliac disease and nine control subjects by perfusion of a small bowel segment under an occluding balloon and analysis of the perfusion fluid for the content of ig and secretory component . the results were compared to the number of ig-containing plasma cells in the test segment . there was , respectively , a two-fold and a fivefold increase in jejunal secretion rates of iga ( both monomeric and polymeric ) and igm in patients with coeliac disease compared with control subjects . the high iga and igm secretion rates parallel the increase of ig-containing plasma cells in the lamina propria . in contrast , the igg plasma cell density increase was barely significant in patients with coeliac disease and did not result in a high igg secretion rate . the jejunal secretion rate of secretory component was significantly increased in patients with coeliac disease and no free dimeric iga was present in the jejunal fluid . antigliadin-iga was detected in the serum and jejunal fluid of the six patients with coeliac disease . antigliadin-iga , however , was almost entirely polymeric iga linked to secretory component in jejunal fluid , whereas 61 % was dimeric iga not linked to secretory component in serum . this result , combined with a raised secretory component secretion rate with no evidence of secretory component saturation , suggests that serum and intestinal antigliadin iga might be of different origins in coeliac disease . 
gastrointestinal intraluminal ph in normal subjects and those with colorectal adenoma or carcinoma . recent evidence suggests that the production of colorectal carcinogens is facilitated when the ph of the colonic contents is alkaline . it follows that the colonic intraluminal ph of patients with colorectal neoplasms should be higher than in normal subjects . gastrointestinal ph has been measured in 30 patients with colorectal cancer and 37 patients with benign colorectal adenomas ( using a ph sensitive radiotelemetry capsule ) . these values have been compared with those recorded in 66 normal subjects . no differences in gastrointestinal ph were found and the results did not support the hypothesis that colonic ph plays a role in the aetiology of colorectal neoplasia . 
in vitro anticolon antibody production by mucosal or peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with ulcerative colitis [ published erratum appears in gut 1991 apr ; 32 ( 4 ) :460 ] serum anticolon antibody and in vitro anti-colon antibody production by peripheral blood and mucosal lymphocytes was investigated in patients with ulcerative colitis . the frequency of serum anticolon antibody was 71 % in 41 patients with ulcerative colitis , estimated by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) using isolated rat colon epithelial cells . this finding confirms our previous report on the frequency of serum anticolon antibody detected by flow cytometry analysis . the estimated frequencies of igg anticolon antibody secreting cells were 1.5-12 .5 / 10 ( 6 ) cells in the colonic mucosa and 0.1-0 .5 / 10 ( 6 ) cells in peripheral blood , from patients with ulcerative colitis when epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) was used as a b cell polyclonal activator . poisson analysis of limiting dilution culture showed that about one per 140 igg cells in the colonic mucosa synthesised anticolon antibody . two monoclonal igg antibodies were obtained from ebv transformed anticolon antibody secreting cells by limiting dilution method . one reacted with goblet cells in the intestine , and the other reacted mainly with colonic epithelial cells . these results suggest that heterogeneous anticolon antibodies are present in patients with ulcerative colitis and that colonic mucosa may be the main source of anticolon antibody . local autoimmune reaction might have an important role in causing the inflammation of colonic mucosa in this disease . 
inflammatory bowel disease and tobacco smoke -- a case-control study . a case-control study was carried out in stockholm , sweden between 1984 and 1987 to evaluate the association of cigarette smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke during childhood and the subsequent development of inflammatory bowel disease . information on smoking was obtained by a postal questionnaire . the relative risk of crohn 's disease in current smokers compared with those who had never smoked was 1.33 ( 95 % confidence limits 0.7 ; 2.6 ) in men and 4.99 ( 2.7 ; 9.2 ) in women ; the corresponding results for ulcerative colitis were 0.96 ( 0.5 ; 1.8 ) and 0.72 ( 0.4 ; 1.4 ) . the relative risk of ulcerative colitis in recent exsmokers compared with those who had never smoked was 2.18 ( 0.9 ; 5.0 ) . furthermore , an increase in the risk of crohn 's disease was found in those who were exposed to environmental tobacco smoke during childhood , the relative risk being 1.50 ( 1.0 ; 2.3 ) . the corresponding relative risk of ulcerative colitis was 0.98 ( 0.6 ; 1.5 ) . 
rectal mucosal dysplasia in crohn 's disease . serial sections of 812 rectal biopsy specimens from 356 crohn 's disease patients were analysed for mucosal epithelial dysplasia . dysplasia was found in 18 patients ( 5 % ) , with four showing dysplasia on repeat biopsy specimen . in these 22 biopsy specimens the dysplasia was mild in 13 , moderate in nine , and severe in none . subsequently , three patients ( 17 % ) developed neoplasms including carcinoma in two and an adenomatous polyp in one . in colectomy specimens which showed dysplasia , significantly more dysplastic changes were found in seven patients who underwent colonic resection than in 10 others who underwent operation but had no prior dysplasia ( p less than 0.001 ) . thirteen patients still have their rectum in situ and remain at risk of developing colonic cancer . four carcinomas developed in patients with crohn 's disease who did not have dysplasia on rectal biopsy specimen . 
mortality and causes of death in crohn 's disease . review of 50 years ' experience in leiden university hospital . six hundred and seventy one patients ( 52.5 % women ) with crohn 's disease seen at leiden university hospital between 1934 and 1984 were identified . follow up was 98.2 % complete . sixty four ( 9.7 % ) of the 659 patients died . the cause of death was related to crohn 's disease in 34 patients , probably related to the disease in four , and unrelated , from incidental causes , in 25 . the cause of death could not be identified in one patient . there was a significant decrease of deaths related to the disease after 1973 . causes of death such as amyloidosis and malnutrition have disappeared and postoperative deaths have decreased . the standardised mortality ratio showed an excess mortality of 2.23 for all patients . it was higher for women ( 3.30 ) than for men ( 1.76 ) . a comparison of two recent 10 year periods showed a significant decrease in standardised mortality ratio in men but not in women . patients whose disease started before the age of 20 years had an excess mortality compared with older patients . this study supports the view that the prognosis of crohn 's disease has improved in general but high quality medical and surgical management is important particularly for younger patients . 
efficacy of biofeedback training in improving faecal incontinence and anorectal physiologic function . the efficacy of biofeedback treatment on faecal incontinence and anorectal function was evaluated in eight patients with faecal incontinence treated with biofeedback training and medical therapy . outcome and anorectal function were compared with nine faecal incontinent patients who received medical therapy alone . three month follow up showed that 50 % of patients in the biofeedback plus conventional treatment group and 56 % of those treated conventionally only had improved . one year follow up showed that 13 % in the biofeedback group were free of soiling and an additional 25 % had improved . the results were similar in the conventionally treated group -- 11 % were free of soiling and an additional 44 % improved . anal pressures at rest and squeeze , the rectal distension volume that induced sustained inhibition of both the external and internal anal sphincter , and continence to rectally infused saline were significantly reduced in both groups of patients compared with controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . biofeedback treatment had no effect on these abnormal anorectal functions in either patients who improved or those who did not . the improvement in faecal incontinence was probably due to medical intervention or regression of symptoms with time , or both , and not the result of biofeedback training . 
comparison of gall bladder bile and endoscopically obtained duodenal bile . in 10 patients with gall stone disease ( eight women , two men ; mean ( sd ) age 47.4 ( 13 ) years ) , bile was obtained by endoscopic aspiration after stimulation of the gall bladder with ceruletid and also by fine needle puncture of the gall bladder under local anaesthetic . the total lipid concentration of the puncture bile samples was mean ( sd ) 11.9 ( 4.7 ) g/dl , significantly higher than the endoscopic bile samples ( 3.9 ( 3.3 ) g/dl , p less than 0.001 ) . total bile acids , phospholipids , and biliary cholesterol ( expressed in mol % ) and cholesterol saturation index showed no significant differences between the two types of samples . the glycocholic acid concentration in the endoscopically obtained bile ( 27.7 ( 6.6 ) mol % v 23.3 ( 5.4 ) mol % ; p less than 0.01 ) was significantly higher than the puncture bile samples . puncture bile exhibited a significantly shorter nucleation time ( 3.5 ( 3.3 ) days v 19.6 ( 11.9 ) days ; p less than 0.001 ) . for determination of the nucleation time , endoscopic bile aspiration after gall bladder stimulation with ceruletid led to adequately concentrated samples in 50 % of the study subjects . cholesterol monohydrate crystal formation in native bile was observed in six samples of puncture bile and in three samples of the endoscopically obtained bile . the presence of cholesterol crystals and the determination of nucleation time in the puncture bile were the best discriminants between cholesterol and pigment gall stones and correlated well with computed tomogram analysis . 
strongyloides stercoralis associated with a bleeding gastric ulcer . infection with the helminthic parasite , strongyloides stercoralis , is usually acquired by skin invasion ( or occasionally via ingestion of larvae ) . after transformation to the adult form , the parasite preferentially localises in the small intestine , especially in the duodenal and jejunal part . a remarkable feature of strongyloides is its property of endogenous reinfection . in the case of an immunocompromised host a massive infection , called hyperinfections strongyloides , may occur . numerous gastrointestinal complications of strongyloides infections , sometimes with a lethal outcome , have been reported . the intestinal manifestations are usually limited to the small bowel , and rarely involve the stomach . we report a patient with complicated strongyloides infection of the stomach . 
isolated lipase and colipase deficiency in two brothers . two brothers of arab origin , aged 15 and 10 years , with isolated congenital lipase and colipase deficiency are described . both were normally developed with a history of passing greasy stools since early infancy . both have remarkable steatorrhoea and low serum carotene and vitamin e concentrations . after exocrine pancreatic stimulation , lipase and colipase activities in the duodenal fluid were almost completely absent , while amylase trypsin , bile salt , and ph values were normal . no other aetiology for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency was found . this is the first report of congenital combined lipase and colipase deficiency in two brothers . 
stimulation of glucagon secretion by gastric inhibitory polypeptide in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and hyperglucagonemia . porcine gastric inhibitory polypeptide ( gip ) was infused iv ( 120 micrograms in 60 min ) in seven patients with biopsy-proven hepatic cirrhosis who had surgical porta-caval anastomoses and hyperglucagonemia in the postabsorptive state . the infusions resulted in elevation of blood levels of immunoreactive gip into the upper range of those observed after ingestion of large mixed meals . this was accompanied by significant increments in immunoreactive glucagon ( irg ) in the plasma . similar infusions in two cirrhotic patients with surgical porta-caval anastomoses who had normal plasma irg levels in the postabsorptive state had no effect on the plasma irg level . ingestion of triglyceride ( 60 g ) in hyperglucagonemic cirrhotic patients with porta-caval anastomoses also resulted in elevation of plasma immunoreactive gip , and this was again associated with significant elevation of the plasma irg level . chromatography studies showed that the increments in plasma irg after the administration of gip or triglyceride were largely accounted for by increases in pancreatic-type glucagon . there were no significant effects of administration of gip or triglyceride on the blood levels of glucose or immunoreactive insulin . it is concluded that porcine gip is glucagonotropic in patients with cirrhosis of the liver who show elevated levels of irg in the plasma in the postabsorptive state . this effect is not due to diversion of portal blood to the systemic circulation and may be attributable to hypersensitivity of the alpha-cells to stimulation by gip . 
primary lymphoma of the liver : clinical and pathological features of 10 patients . nine out of 10 patients with primary lymphoma of the liver presented in a manner that did not suggest a tumour . the initial diagnoses were chronic active hepatitis in three cases and " granulomatous cholangitis " , inflammatory pseudotumour , and anaplastic carcinoma in one case each . moreover , extensive haemorrhagic necrosis in three cases initially suggested the budd-chiari syndrome . all the tumours were diffuse non-hodgkin 's lymphomas like the 50 cases reported previously , but they differed from most of these in that nine were of t cell phenotype . five were pleomorphic small t cell , two t zone , and two t lymphoblastic lymphomas : only one was centrocytic and of b cell lineage . this report extends the range of clinical manifestations ( diffuse hepatomegaly without a tumour ) , histological appearances ( resemblance to chronic inflammatory or vascular liver diseases ) and phenotype ( of t cell lineage ) of primary lymphoma of the liver : these features seemed to be related in this series . recognition is important as prognosis remains favourable in appropriately treated cases . although the appearances of the liver biopsy specimens may be difficult to interpret , the destructiveness of the infiltrate is an important clue to the diagnosis . 
gastric epithelium in the duodenum : its association with helicobacter pylori and inflammation . duodenal biopsy specimens from 471 adults and 47 children were examined to determine the prevalence and distribution of gastric epithelium in the duodenal bulb in relation to age , gender , gastroduodenal inflammation , smoking , alcohol and consumption of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaid ) . gastric metaplasia was present in the anterior wall duodenal biopsy specimen in 31 % , was significantly less common in patients under 17 than in adults , and was more common in males than females . in sixty two adults who underwent multiple radial duodenal biopsy gastric metaplasia was randomly distributed around the duodenal circumference ; sixty three per cent of the patients with gastric metaplasia found on multiple biopsy were detected by just the anterior biopsy . gastric metaplasia was not obviously associated with alcohol , cigarette , or nsaid consumption . while the presence of gastric metaplasia was associated with adulthood , male sex , and low fasting gastric juice ph , its extent was associated with active duodenitis and helicobacter-associated gastritis . on logistic regression , gastric metaplasia in the duodenum and gastric helicobacter pylori were independent predictors of active duodenitis , but were not significantly associated with inactive duodenal inflammation . h pylori was observed in duodenal biopsy specimens from 32 patients , all with active duodenitis ; bacteria were present only on foci of gastric metaplasia , and were more likely to be seen when the metaplasia was extensive . it is proposed that inflammatory injury to the duodenal mucosa by h pylori may stimulate the development of further gastric metaplasia , and that the area of duodenum susceptible to colonisation with h pylori may therefore increase progressively until mucosal integrity is compromised and ulceration supervenes . 
helicobacter pylori in dyspeptic patients in kuwait . two hundred and four patients , mainly arabs , attending for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy at the gastroenterology clinic in mubarak al-kabeer hospital , kuwait , were examined for evidence of infection with helicobacter pylori and associated inflammation . biopsy specimens of antrum , body , and duodenum ; gastric juice ; and antral mucosal brushings were investigated by microbiological , cytological , and histopathological methods . clinical conditions diagnosed at endoscopy included gastritis , gastric ulcer , duodenitis and duodenal ulcer , but half the patients had endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosae . h pylori was detected by one or more of the procedures in at least one specimen from 197 ( 96.6 % ) of the patients . histological and cytological analysis showed equal sensitivity , but bacteriological culture was less reliable . the proportion of positive cases was high , compared with other reported series , which may have been accounted for by the variety of diagnostic techniques used in this study , the selected population ( all with gastrointestinal symptoms ) or genetic or environmental predisposing factors peculiar to the sample population . 
omeprazole in h2 receptor antagonist-resistant reflux esophagitis . we conducted a retrospective review of 25 patients with severe reflux esophagitis treated with omeprazole because of failure of h2 receptor antagonists to heal their esophagitis . prior to beginning omeprazole ( 40 mg/day ) , all patients were on h2 antagonists for at least 9 months and still had endoscopic evidence of longitudinal ( grade ii ) or circumferential ( grade iii ) distal esophageal ulceration . omeprazole therapy brought about complete endoscopic healing in 24 of 25 patients ( 96 % ) . twenty-three of 24 healed patients were then restarted on h2 antagonists as maintenance therapy . repeat endoscopy was performed if symptoms recurred . fourteen of 24 patients ( 58 % ) had recurrence of endoscopic esophagitis documented between 26 and 300 days from the time of starting maintenance therapy . two of these 14 patients opted for antireflux surgery , whereas the remaining 12 were once again given omeprazole , which again resulted in symptom resolution in all patients . these data suggest that most patients with h2 receptor antagonist-resistant ulcerative esophagitis can not be successfully maintained on h2 antagonists even after the ulcers have been healed with omeprazole . further studies are required to determine the role of omeprazole compared to other treatments in the long-term maintenance therapy of these patients . 
the site of recurrent duodenal ulcer . the aim of this retrospective study was to determine the site of recurrent duodenal ulcer in relation to the site of the index ulcer . one hundred and thirty-five patients who had recurrent duodenal ulcer after documented healing of an index ulcer were studied . the recurrent ulcer was more likely to occur in the anterior bulb if the index ulcer was anterior ( 35 of 58 = 60 % ) than if the index ulcer was not anterior ( 29 of 77 = 38 % , p less than 0.01 ) . however , the likelihood of a recurrent ulcer on the posterior wall of the bulb was not significantly different whether the index ulcer was posterior ( 11 of 36 = 31 % ) or not ( 22 of 99 = 22 % , p less than 0.24 ) . three of 20 patients ( 15 % ) who initially presented with bleeding bled again with their recurrent ulcers , compared with eight of 115 patients ( 7 % ) who first presented with dyspepsia only ( p = 0.39 ) . thirteen patients were assessed independently by two endoscopists to determine ulcer site . their assessments concurred for 12 ( 92 % ) . 
treatment of duodenitis with cimetidine : a clinical , endoscopic , and histologic study . we studied the effectiveness of cimetidine in the treatment of endoscopically diagnosed duodenitis . sixty-nine patients with the solitary endoscopic finding of duodenitis ( 6 % of 1,200 patients who underwent fiberoptic endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract in our unit over 3 years ) were studied retrospectively : a good clinical response was apparent in 45 of 69 patients treated with cimetidine ( 65 % ) , and a fair response in another four ( 6 % ) . in a controlled , randomized prospective study , we evaluated the effectiveness of cimetidine in duodenitis . statistically significant improvement for the clinical and endoscopic scores was found in 10 patients treated with cimetidine ( p less than 0.01 ) . improvement in the histologic score did not reach statistical significance . no such improvement was demonstrated in seven placebo-treated patients . we believe that duodenitis is a " peptic syndrome , " has a good response to cimetidine treatment , and behaves much like duodenal ulcer disease . 
colonic volvulus as a complication of celiac sprue . colonic volvulus has been a rarely reported complication of celiac sprue . we describe two patients with long-standing celiac sprue , one in whom a recurrent sigmoid volvulus developed , and in the other , a cecal volvulus . following surgery , both are now asymptomatic on a gluten-free diet . the association between celiac sprue and colonic volvulus was first reported in 1953 . there have been only a few isolated cases documented , surprisingly so because the two major predisposing conditions for colonic volvulus are often seen in patients with celiac sprue . colonic bacterial fermentation of malabsorbed carbohydrate ( in celiac sprue ) leads to excess gas production . flaccid bowel loops with sigmoid redundancy , a long mesentery , or cecal hypermobility are not uncommon . a motility disorder in celiac sprue has also been proposed . thus these factors together would suggest that the likelihood of development of colonic volvulus in celiac sprue would be relatively great . the possibility of underlying celiac sprue should be considered in patients with colonic volvulus who have a background history of recurrent abdominal distention or malabsorptive symptoms . 
six physicians with inflammatory bowel disease . this essay tells the stories of six physicians with inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) to emphasize how important denial and control become when a physician is a patient . guilt at the supposed psychosomatic " origin " of ibd suggests that we as physicians should never blame our patients for getting sick . 
erythrocyte sedimentation as a measure of crohn 's disease activity : opposite trends in ileitis versus colitis . to test our hypothesis that the erythrocytic sedimentation rate ( esr ) correlates well with clinical activity in inflammatory disease of the colon , but not of the small bowel , we stratified 49 crohn 's disease patients according to their anatomic involvement and then measured the correlations between esr and clinical activity within each of these anatomical subgroups . for 18 patients with crohn 's disease involving primarily the colon , there was a trend toward a direct correlation between clinical score and esr ( p = 0.15 ) . in the 14 patients with crohn 's disease limited to the colon , this direct correlation was even more pronounced and statistically significant ( p less than 0.02 ) . by contrast , an opposite trend was observed for patients with small bowel disease . for the 26 patients with disease involving predominantly the small bowel , as well as for the 22 with disease limited to small bowel , there were statistically significant inverse correlations between clinical score and esr ( p less than 0.04 ) . this difference between the directions of the correlations for crohn 's colitis versus ileitis was statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . this study provides further evidence for the importance of analyzing putative indications of disease activity separately for each of the protean forms in which crohn 's disease occurs . 
bronchopulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis . we report two cases of pulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis . the first patient , a 37-year-old woman , had bilateral basal bronchiectasis full of mucopurulent secretion , with a marked improvement of pulmonary function and roentgenographic appearance after a conservative approach . the second patient had severe pulmonary fibrosis of autoimmune nature and died owing to a pulmonary infection . in the second patient , a sulfasalazine reaction as an etiologic factor was excluded , while in the first this possibility seemed unlikely . therefore , we take these two cases as examples of the extraintestinal manifestations of ulcerative colitis . 
refractory parastomal ulcers : a multidisciplinary approach . chronic parastomal ulcers in patients with ileostomy or colostomy stomas are unusual . previous reports have implicated infections , fistulas , recurrent inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) , pyoderma gangrenosum , and trauma . over the past 8 years we have evaluated 10 cases of such refractory parastomal ulcers that occurred at a mean of 11 years after stomal surgery . eight patients had had an ileostomy for ibd while two had undergone colostomy for colon cancer . five patients with ibd were diagnosed as having pyoderma gangrenosum ulcerations . they required systemic treatment for a mean of 25 weeks to effect ulcer healing . the other five patients had either parastomal ulcers on the basis of dermatoses ( contact dermatitis , eczema , or bullous pemphigoid ) or contact ulcers due to face-plate pressure and parastomal dermatitis . these patients received topical treatment with healing of ulcers in a mean of 4 weeks . we conclude that parastomal ulcers occurring in patients without ibd or ibd patients without classic pyoderma gangrenosum require early dermatologic evaluation as they respond relatively quickly to appropriate local therapy . 
biliary sludge : a critical update . biliary sludge has been for many years a poorly defined entity , usually with low amplitude , nonshadowing echoes within the most dependent part of the gallbladder , which shift under the influence of postural changes . from a sonographic point of view , the detection of sludge implies the coexistence of small-sized , solid components and of a gel-like embedding material . the chemical nature of biliary sludge has recently been recognized to be predominantly composed of a coaggregate of cholesterol monohydrate crystals and liquid crystalline droplets , and in some cases , such as obstructive jaundice or symptomatic liver diseases , by bilirubin granules , all embedded in a gel matrix of mucous glycoproteins . from a pathogenic point of view , biliary sludge is often associated with biliary stasis , or with conditions characterized by impaired gallbladder contraction , such as prolonged total parenteral nutrition , fasting , and pregnancy . other causes include mucus hypersecretion , which may favor cholesterol nucleation and crystal growth , and bile infection . sludge may be an intermediate step in the formation of different types of stones . from an epidemiological point of view , sludge is quite rare in the asymptomatic , free-living population , but may be common in selected series of symptomatic patients . from a clinical point of view , sludge often has a fluctuating course , including frequent disappearances and reappearances , suggesting that the early stages of gallstone formation are reversible . 
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella enteritidis in cirrhotic ascites . spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella is uncommon . we report three patients with ascites infected by salmonella . all three patients had advanced chronic liver disease , typically cirrhosis with portal hypertension . salmonella enteritidis grew in the ascite fluid culture of the three patients . there was no clinical or microbiological evidence of salmonella infection other than in the ascitic fluid . one patient died before antibiotic treatment was started , but the other two were treated with different combinations of antimicrobial drugs . one of them died on the fourteenth day of hospitalization , and the other survived . 
thoracic succussion splash : a new symptom and sign of achalasia . a patient with a " thoracic succussion splash " due to achalasia is described . she noted a splashing or sloshing sensation in her chest related to jogging and bending . on examination a splashing sound could be heard over the mid sternum and the posterior chest when the patient was rocked vigorously back and forth . 
spinal epidural abscess : an unusual complication of a duodenal ulcer . a 50-year-old man had several months of progressively worse low-back pain associated with constitutional symptoms and a history of retroperitoneal tumor and bleeding duodenal ulcer . initial evaluation suggested a lumbar spine tumor , but myelography confirmed the presence of an epidural abscess . further evaluation revealed a duodeno-spinal fistula at the site of the previous duodenal ulcer , which proved to be the cause of the abscess . 
hypergastrinemia , gastric endocrine cell hyperplasia , and intractable diarrhea . a patient with pernicious anemia developed severe intractable diarrhea night and day . investigation revealed chronic atrophic gastritis and a markedly elevated level of serum gastrin . no obvious explantation for the diarrhea was found , but after antrectomy , the gastrin level returned to normal and the diarrhea subsided . possible mechanisms for an association between diarrhea and hypergastrinemia include colonic hypermotility secondary to release of acetylcholine and inhibition of fluid and electrolyte reabsorption within the small bowel . 
small bowel obstruction associated with a leiomyomatous uterus . a case report and review of the literature . a 38-year-old woman developed small bowel obstruction shortly after a cholecystectomy because of a massively enlarged leiomyomatous uterus . small bowel obstruction is a relatively rare complication from fibroid tumors and results from entrapment of the bowel between serosal pedunculated fibroids ( as in this patient ) , adhesions to infarcted leiomyomas , or from compression of the small bowel by the large mass . large uterine leiomyomas clearly must be considered in the etiology of intestinal obstruction . 
the management of postoperative chylous ascites . a case report and literature review . chylous ascites remains rare as a complication of surgical intervention . although therapeutic manoeuvres to control chylous ascites have been developed over the past 20 years , its pathophysiology is poorly understood . conservative approaches involving dietary restriction of long-chain triglycerides and salt , together with multiple paracenteses , are still the therapies of choice . persistent chylous ascites may be treated surgically by ligation of leaking lymphatics or implantation of a peritoneovenous shunt once the lymphatic anatomy has been defined by preoperative investigations . we report a case of chylous ascites developing after laparotomy and duodenotomy for obscure gastrointestinal bleeding , which did not respond adequately to medical therapy and was successfully managed by the insertion of a peritoneovenous shunt . 
idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis in a man . idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis is a rare disease described in young adolescent women , characterized by fibrosis and adhesions of the peritoneum to loops of the small bowel . here we describe a 35-year-old man who underwent exploratory laparotomy for repeated small bowel obstruction . only partial resection of the terminal ileum was possible because of adhesions ; recurrent abdominal infections and leakage from anastomosis required further resection , which ultimately resulted in short bowel syndrome and malabsorption . the clinical and pathological findings were characteristic for idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis . we review the relevant literature , to confirm , to the best of our knowledge , that this is the first report of a male patient who has developed this rare disease . 
cystic mesothelioma of peritoneum : occurrence in a man . we report a case of cystic mesothelioma of the peritoneum in a 54-year-old man in whom cystic masses were removed twice by surgery at an interval of 2 years . the patient died of cardiac arrest shortly after the second operation for a concurrent unresectable colonic cancer . the pathogenesis of the disease is uncertain , but we consider it neoplastic of low grade malignancy . 
ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis associated with sensorineural deafness sensorineural deafness is rarely associated with both ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis . a patient is described in whom acute sensorineural deafness occurred in association with episcleritis , ulcerative colitis and clinical features suggesting giant cell arteritis . 
skeletal scintigraphy in coeliac disease . a patient with undiagnosed , long-standing coeliac disease had multiple hot spots on skeletal scintigraphy , similar to those observed in malignant disease metastatic to the skeleton . a gluten-free diet corrected the pathological laboratory values , and a repeat skeletal scintigram 15 months after the first one was normal . it is important to identify the secondary hyperparathyroidism of coeliac disease as a cause of multiple hot spots in skeletal scintigraphy -- the finding resembles malignancy , but is due to a benign , curable condition . 
treatment of severe colitis in behcet 's syndrome with thalidomide ( cg-217 ) . a 35-year-old male patient , known in our department since 1979 on account of a severe and complete behcet 's syndrome , was treated with thalidomide ( cg-217 ) as a final pharmacological measure to avoid colectomy during a severe attack of behcet colitis . prior to the administration of thalidomide , the patient had been treated for 7 weeks with full parenteral nutrition and high doses of steroids intravenously without a satisfactory effect on the colitis . treatment with sulphasalazin was unsuccessful because of a decreasing number of platelets on this drug . after a few days on thalidomide , 300 mg given once daily at bedtime , the patient 's stools were normalized and without reaction for blood , his oral ulcers and pleural effusion disappeared , and his steroid doses could be reduced . gradually he was put on oral nutrition again , and his rectal mucosa became normalized . the dose of thalidomide was reduced to 200 mg , and then to 100 mg daily when the patient was discharged from hospital , less than 3 weeks after institution of the drug treatment . after 5 months as an out-patient his condition is still satisfactory and without symptoms of his former disease . thalidomide has previously been reported to be of value in treatment of behcet 's syndrome , but to my knowledge never with such a dramatic effect on a severe colitis as reported in this case . 
gall-bladder perforation after long-term dapsone therapy . a 65-year-old man on maintenance dapsone therapy for dermatitis herpetiformis for 30 years was admitted to hospital with acute abdominal pain and vomiting . investigations revealed a heinz body haemolytic anaemia . worsening symptoms prompted an emergency laparotomy that revealed a perforated gall bladder with pigmented biliary calculi . in previous reviews of the haematological abnormalities associated with dapsone therapy , life-threatening cholecystitis has not been described . 
changes in the basal dendrites of cortical pyramidal cells from alcoholic patients -- a quantitative golgi study . although a variety of pathological changes have been described in the brains of chronic alcoholic patients , there have been no studies which have addressed the question of alterations in cortical neuronal dendritic arborisation . loss of neurons from the superior frontal gyrus and shrinkage of neurons from both the superior frontal gyrus and motor cortex has been documented in chronic alcoholic patients ; these areas were chosen for this study . using a modified rapid golgi technique the basal dendritic arborisation of layer iii pyramidal neurons was compared in 15 male alcoholic patients and 15 age-matched male controls . all parameters measuring basal dendritic arborisation were significantly less in the alcoholic cases for both the superior frontal and motor cortices . changes in the arbor are in the terminal branches , which is consistent with other models of dendritic plasticity . such changes may explain both permanent and reversible functional deficits in chronic alcoholic patients . 
gallbladder perforation : correlation of cholescintigraphic and sonographic findings with the niemeier classification . we retrospectively analyzed the cholescintigrams and sonograms of 36 consecutive patients with gallbladder perforation to ( a ) determine the sensitivity of each for the preoperative detection of gallbladder perforation and ( b ) correlate the findings with the modified niemeier classification . cholescintigraphic criteria of perforation ( free spill , pericholecystic hepatic activity , and scintigraphic gallstone ileus sign ) were detected in 14 of 28 ( 50 % ) cases , while sonographic criteria of perforation ( pericholecystic fluid or pneumobilia with gallstones ) were present in 18 % ( 4 of 22 ) of patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . cholescintigraphic patterns of perforation associated with the niemeier classification were : type i ( acute free perforation ) , 3 of 7 scans demonstrated free spill ; type ii ( subacute pericholecystic abscess ) , 9 of 19 scans showed pericholecystic activity ; and type iii ( chronic cholecystoenteric fistula ) , 1 of 3 scans showed a scintigraphic gallstone ileus . thus , although cholescintigraphy appears superior to sonography , both modalities are relatively insensitive for the detection of gallbladder perforation . 
supportive evidence for the validity of the epidemiologic necropsy for gallstones objective : the epidemiologic necropsy measures the occurrence of unsuspected disease through the examination of necropsy records of patients who died for other reasons . the estimates of unsuspected disease derived from the epidemiologic necropsy should approximate what actually occurs in the living population . design/setting : to test this hypothesis , all necropsy records of adult patients at the university of kansas medical center from 1950 to 1984 were examined for the presence of gallstones . patients with previous cholecystectomy or whose gallstones were diagnosed during life were excluded . the data were stratified by age and race and compared with those of a screening survey from canada , a surgical series from new york , two screening surveys from italy , and one from denmark . the crude necropsy detection rates and the rates from the screening surveys were standardized to the 1970 federal census for kansas city . results/conclusions : the standardized occurrence rates were similar and suggest that the epidemiologic necropsy accurately assesses the occurrence of asymptomatic gallstones in the living population , thus strengthening its validity as a research tool . 
emergency center ultrasonography in the evaluation of hemoperitoneum : a prospective study . the reliability of ultrasonographic detection ( us ) of hemoperitoneum in blunt abdominal trauma was evaluated in a prospective study of 72 patients . independent of the examiner , sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy were , respectively , 86.7 % , 100 % , and 97.2 % . laparotomy was indicated in 76.9 % of us hemoperitoneum-positive cases . no negative laparotomies were performed in this study group . if hemoperitoneum is revealed in us and vital signs are unstable , we think laparotomy is indicated . we believe that us in an emergency center is a quick , safe screening method in the evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma . us might take over a great part of the role of diagnostic peritoneal lavage . 
congenital hepatic fibrosis in autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease . congenital hepatic fibrosis was found in four families with autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease . congenital hepatic fibrosis is commonly though to be characteristic for autosomal-recessive polycystic kidney disease , but the reported families , show that it can also complicate autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease . in three families close linkage between the mutation causing the disease and dna markers on chromosome 16 was demonstrated . the clinical course of the congenital hepatic fibrosis differed considerably ; in one family the children with congenital hepatic fibrosis died soon after birth , in the three other families an approximately 20 years follow-up showed no detectable progression of the liver disease . 
persistent rectal ulcer associated with human papillomavirus type 33 in a patient with aids : successful treatment with isotretinoin . rectal dysplasia and carcinoma associated with human papillomavirus infection are increasing in prevalence among homosexual men , particularly those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . we report a case involving a 39-year-old homosexual man with aids who developed a persistent rectal ulcer . a biopsy of the ulcer revealed severe squamous dysplasia , and human papillomavirus type 33 was detected in rectal tissue with use of in situ dna hybridization . this genotype of virus has not been previously associated with anal or rectal dysplasia in homosexual men , including those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . the rectal ulcer resolved after 2 months of oral therapy with 60 mg/d of isotretinoin , a retinoid . 
typhlitis due to balantidium coli in captive lowland gorillas . typhlitis caused by balantidium coli and requiring surgical resection occurred in three captive lowland gorillas over a 30-month period . not one of the other gorillas in the colony or their keepers was ill . b. coli is distributed widely geographically and widely among mammals . asymptomatic commensalism predominates , but invasion of the colonic mucosa can produce diarrhea and dysentery and set the stage for local or systemic spread . 
collagenous colitis : report of nine cases and review of the literature . collagenous colitis is characterized clinically by chronic watery diarrhea and pathologically by a distinctive band of collagen deposited below the colonic epithelium and an inflammatory cell infiltrate of the lamina propria . since 1976 , more than 100 cases have been described . we report an additional nine cases occurring in five women and four men ranging in age from 18 to 80 years . diarrhea was present before diagnosis for 2 to 4 months in four cases and for 1 to 25 years in another four cases . one patient did not have diarrhea . results of radiologic and stool studies were normal in all cases . all patients had flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy . microscopic examination of biopsy material was interpreted as characteristic of collagenous colitis . two cases resolved with psyllium mucilloid therapy alone . of the five patients treated with azulfidine , three had marked improvement , one had partial response , and one had no change . 
the efficacy of palliative and definitive percutaneous versus surgical drainage of pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts : a prospective study of 85 patients . we compared the efficacy of percutaneous to surgical drainage in a prospective study in 85 patients with pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts . percutaneous drainage of pancreatic abscesses in 18 patients cured three and palliated 12 who were eventually cured by elective surgical ablation ; three patients died . this compares well to our 15 surgical patients , of whom four were cured by surgery alone and six were palliated . all were subsequently cured by additional computerized tomography-guided or ultrasound-guided percutaneous drainage and medical management or surgery . five of the 15 died . percutaneous drainage cured 11 of 14 infected pseudocysts and palliated two , which were subsequently cured by surgery ; one was palliated but the patient was lost to follow-up . surgical drainage cured six of 12 infected pseudocysts and palliated the other six , of which four were cured by further surgery and the other two were cured by secondary percutaneous drainage . nine of 12 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by percutaneous aspiration , and two were palliated and later cured . in one patient , disease progressed , and he was ultimately lost to follow-up . thirteen of 14 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by surgical drainage . the other patient died of pulmonary embolus . in patients treated by percutaneous techniques , there were four major complications . our study established distinct advantages of percutaneous drainage under computerized tomographic and ultrasonic guidance : ( 1 ) the procedures can be carried out under ultrasonic guidance in an intensive care unit on critically ill patients , ( 2 ) the technique proved highly effective for initial palliation , with defervescence and stabilization occurring in most critically ill patients within 48 hours , ( 3 ) findings from fine needle aspiration provided valuable information as to microorganisms and antibiotic sensitivities and differed in 29 of 85 patients from those of concomitant blood cultures , and ( 4 ) definitive eradication of the process ( surgical ablation of residual necrotic material ) can be elected after the patient 's clinical condition stabilizes . 
flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure in rural patients . in this study of flexible sigmoidoscopy as a screening procedure for rural , impoverished patients , 16 % of asymptomatic patients who were screened by sigmoidoscopy and 23 % of patients with a positive test for fecal occult blood were found to have a polyp or carcinoma . flexible sigmoidoscopy appears to be an important part of the physical examination of patients older than 50 . it is a test that can readily be done by primary care physicians in a rural setting . 
hepatobiliary manifestations of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) frequently develop hepatic dysfunction . although hepatic injury may indirectly result from malnutrition , hypotension , administered medications , sepsis , or other conditions , the hepatic injury is frequently due to opportunistic hepatic infection , directly related to aids . infection with mycobacterium avium intracellulare typically occurs in patients with advanced immunocompromise and with systemic symptoms due to widely disseminated infection . in contrast , hepatic tuberculosis often occurs with less advanced immunocompromise . cytomegaloviral infection may produce a hepatitis . cytomegaloviral and cryptosporidial infections have been implicated as causes of acalculous cholecystitis and of a secondary sclerosing cholangitis . about 10-20 % of patients with aids have chronic hepatitis b infection . these patients tend to develop minimal hepatic inflammation and necrosis . the clinical findings in patients with hepatic cryptococcal infection are usually due to concomitant extrahepatic infection . hepatic histoplasmosis usually develops as part of a widely disseminated infection with systemic symptoms . hepatic involvement by kaposi 's sarcoma is rarely documented ante mortem because an unguided liver biopsy is an insensitive diagnostic procedure . patients with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the liver typically have lymphadenopathy , hepatomegaly , and systemic symptoms . as a pragmatic approach , patients with liver dysfunction and hiv-related disease should have a sonographic or computerized tomographic examination of the liver . patients with dilated bile ducts should undergo endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography because opportunistic infection may produce biliary obstruction . patients with a focal hepatic lesion should be considered for a guided liver biopsy . patients with a significantly elevated serum alkaline phosphatase level should be considered for a percutaneous liver biopsy . when performed for these indications , liver biopsy will demonstrate a significant disease involving the liver in about 50 % of patients with aids and in about 25 % of patients who are hiv seropositive but who are not known to have aids . the clinical impact of a diagnostic biopsy is blunted by a lack of efficacious therapy for many opportunistic infections . 
colonoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology in the diagnosis of ileocecal tuberculosis . two cases of ileocecal tuberculosis are presented . the diagnosis was achieved by endoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology ( fnac ) , while endoscopic biopsies and brush cytology were negative . the usefulness of endoscopic fnac in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal tract tuberculosis is highlighted . 
bleeding ectatic vascular lesion involving the sigmoid colon , endoscopically indistinguishable from angiodysplasia , in an 8-yr-old boy . an 8-yr-old japanese boy was hospitalized , complaining of active hematochezia . he was shown to have a cherry-red , blood-oozing area of vascular dilation with mucosal prominence in the sigmoid colon by endoscopy , but had no other mucocutaneous vascular abnormalities . a family history was noncontributory . under the clinical diagnosis of angiodysplasia of the sigmoid colon , he underwent an elliptical resection of the part , based on the intraoperative endoscopic findings . however , histological examination of the surgical specimen revealed a totally different picture from that seen in angiodysplasia : the thin-walled , markedly ectatic , nontortuous veins with hemorrhage were seen only just below the muscularis mucosae , around which the normal ones were shown to coexist . he has had no rebleeding for the past 3 yr . this lesion is considered to be an isolated congenital visceral telangiectasia involving veins . 
upper gastrointestinal bleeding in dengue fever . twenty-six virologically and serologically confirmed dengue patients with signs of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding ( 13.1 % ) were studied during the 1987 outbreak in southern taiwan . within a 1-yr period from 1987 to 1988 in kaohsiung chang gung memorial hospital , there were 198 patients with dengue fever confirmed . viral isolation and serological studies indicated that type i dengue was the cause . there was no evidence of sequential secondary infection among them . the 26 patients were evaluated gastroduodenoscopically . most of the dengue patients who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding had gastric ulcers or duodenal ulcers ; superficial and hemorrhagic gastritis are the other relevant endoscopic findings . thirteen patients ( 50 % ) had a past history of peptic ulcer symptoms , whereas the other 13 did not . dengue infection is a precipitating factor in inducing peptic ulcer bleeding because of hemostatic derangements . supportive therapy and blood transfusions alone were adequate treatment , except for one patient who required surgery due to massive bleeding of a duodenal ulcer . no mortality was observed in this study . 
sequential esophageal motility studies after endoscopic injection sclerotherapy : a prospective investigation . to assess prospectively the effects of endoscopic intravariceal sclerosis ( eis ) on esophageal function , we performed esophageal manometry on 13 cirrhotic patients before eis , 24 h after the second session and 4 wk after the fourth session . eis had no impact on lower esophageal sphincter pressure . however , a significant decrease in the amplitude of peristaltic waves was observed immediately post-eis in the lower two-thirds of the esophagus . there was no modification of duration or velocity of progression of peristaltic waves . a four-fold increase in simultaneous contractions was observed early after eis . these changes were reversible , as assessed by late esophageal testing after eis . no correlations were demonstrated between esophageal motor parameters and doses of sclerosant . we conclude that sclerosant injection into the esophageal wall acutely impairs esophageal motility , but motor function is partially restored 4 wk after completion of eis , suggesting that dysmotility is reversible . 
pharmacokinetics of famotidine after intravenous administration in liver disease . the pharmacokinetics of famotidine were studied after the administration of a single intravenous dose of 20-mg to seven normal volunteers , six patients with chronic hepatitis , 14 patients with compensated cirrhosis , and seven patients with decompensated cirrhosis . the plasma terminal elimination half-life of famotidine was significantly prolonged and famotidine total body clearance was significantly reduced in patients with decompensated cirrhosis , whose creatinine clearance was 57.2 + / - 6.7 ml/min/1 .48 m2 , but these changes were not significant in patients with chronic hepatitis ( creatinine clearance : 109.2 + / - 10.5 ml/min/1 .48 m2 ) or in patients with compensated cirrhosis ( creatinine clearance : 72.2 + / - 26.5 ml/min/1 .48 m2 in comparison with normal volunteers . the total volume of distribution at steady state was not significantly different between the normal volunteers and the three groups of patients . famotidine total body clearance showed a weak but significant correlation with the creatinine clearance ( r = 0.66 , p less than 0.001 ) , serum albumin level ( r = 0.51 , p less than 0.01 ) , and serum total bilirubin level ( r = 0.36 , p less than 0.05 ) , which suggested that the reduction in clearance was due in part to the concomitant renal impairment , as well as hepatic dysfunction in these patients . in conclusion , famotidine total body clearance was reduced in decompensated cirrhosis , indicating that the dose schedule requires modification in patients with this condition . 
reduction in hepatic venous pressure gradient as a consequence of volume contraction due to chronic administration of spironolactone in patients with cirrhosis and no ascites . the effect of plasma volume contraction induced by a 4-wk administration of spironolactone or furosemide on the hepatic venous pressure gradient was evaluated in consecutively allocated patients with cirrhosis and no ascites . in the spironolactone group ( n = 15 ) , the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased significantly ( p less than 0.005 ) , by 21.8 % , with a significant contraction of circulating plasma volume ( p less than 0.01 ) . although there were no statistically significant correlations between the change in hepatic venous pressure gradient and changes in circulating plasma volume or in simultaneously determined systemic hemodynamics , a significant negative correlation ( r = -0.74 , p less than 0.01 , n = 12 ) between the hepatic venous pressure gradient change and the post-treatment plasma aldosterone levels was found . however , in the furosemide group ( n = 10 ) , the hepatic venous pressure gradient and circulating plasma volume did not significantly decrease . our data demonstrated a significant reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient on a chronic administration of spironolactone , which may have been due to volume contractions in patients with cirrhosis and no ascites . 
short-term course of corticosteroids in the treatment of resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease . the aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of short-term corticosteroids in resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease after 4 wk or more on standard treatment . thirty-seven patients were randomly allocated to two groups : group i ( 18 patients ) was put on 40 mg furosemide and 200 mg spironolactone , in addition to a 15-day , tapering dose of prednisone ( 15 , 10 , 5 mg ) . group ii ( 19 ) patients received the same diuretics without steroids , and served as controls . at the end of a 2-wk course of therapy , the mean variations were as follows : body weight in patients in group i ( " cases " ) decreased by 9.8 kg , compared with 4.3 kg in controls ; abdominal girth decreased by 7.4 cm in cases , compared with 3.6 cm in controls ; urine output increased by 635.9 ml in cases , compared with 364.6 ml in controls ; urinary sodium excretion increased by 16.5 meq/day in cases , compared with 4.1 meq/day in controls . these differences between cases and controls were found to be statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . on the other hand , there were insignificant differences as regards decrease in blood urea ( 3.2 g/dl for cases and 2.7 g/dl for controls ) , decrease in serum creatinine ( 0.2 mg/dl for both cases and controls ) , increase in serum albumin ( 0.3 g/dl in cases and 0.2 g/dl in controls ) , increase in serum sodium ( 3.2 meq/l in cases and 2.7 meq/l in controls ) , and increase in serum potassium ( 0.2 meq/l in cases and 0.4 meq/l in controls ) . we conclude that a short-term course of corticosteroids in conjunction with standard diuretics has proved to be an effective , safe , and economical modality to relieve resistant hepatic ascites . it can be considered a temporary alternative to paracentesis with albumin infusion . 
the combination of prednisone and colchicine in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis . primary sclerosing cholangitis is a cholestatic liver disease characterized by inflammation and fibrosis of the biliary tract . the cause of the disease is unknown , and no effective medical treatment exists . in this study , 12 patients received a combination of low-dose prednisone ( 10 mg/day ) and colchicine ( 0.6 mg bid ) . their course was compared with that of a group of concurrent historical controls . at 6 and 12 months , there was significantly more improvement in liver test results over baseline values in patients receiving prednisone and colchicine than in the untreated controls . at 24 months , however , no significant differences in biochemical tests were appreciated between treated and untreated patients . analysis of serial liver biopsies showed no differences in histologic change in the two groups . during the 2 yr of follow-up , there were two deaths in the control group but none in the treated group . four untreated patients developed ascites ; gastrointestinal bleeding developed in three untreated patients , one of whom developed ascites . in contrast , in the treated group , ascites and bleeding developed in only one patient . we conclude that the combination of colchicine and prednisone does not retard histologic progression or progression of standard liver tests after 2 yr of therapy . there is a trend toward less clinical deterioration and improved survival after 2 yr of treatment . on the basis of these findings , we would not advocate empiric use of these drugs for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis , but suggest that , if they are to be used at all in psc , they be evaluated in a controlled clinical trial as treatment for this as yet incurable disease . 
clinical evaluation of plasma abnormal prothrombin ( des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ) in hepatobiliary malignancies and other diseases . des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ( dcp ) , a protein induced by vitamin k absence or antagonist-ii ( pivka-ii ) was measured in the plasma of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma and those with various other hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases . dcp levels were determined by enzyme immunoassay ( e-1023 ) , using an anti-dcp monoclonal antibody . forty-two of the 91 patients ( 46.2 % ) with hepatocellular carcinoma had abnormally elevated levels of dcp , whereas only one of the 24 patients with hepatic cirrhosis showed a slight increase . an increase was also observed in some patients with obstructive jaundice . there was no correlation between plasma levels of dcp and those of serum alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) . in most patients with hepatocellular carcinoma , plasma dcp levels normalized after curative surgical resection . plasma dcp levels were not related to the plasma concentration of vitamin k in the patients with hepatocellular carcinoma . plasma dcp determination may be useful in the diagnosis and postoperative monitoring of the response of hepatocellular carcinoma . 
spontaneous rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma : a review of 172 japanese cases . the spontaneous rupture of a primary hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) accounts for 10 % mortality of hcc patients in japan . because this problem occurs much less frequently in western countries , it is often difficult for clinicians practicing in such countries to decide upon the best course of action during the crisis accompanying the spontaneous rupture of a hcc . in an effort to advance the general knowledge of this disease and clarify a selection for its treatment , we review 172 cases of spontaneous rupture of a hcc reported in the japanese literature . the chief complaint of the patients was sudden epigastralgia or right hypochondriac pain . abdominal paracentesis was positive in 86 % of the patients . liver failure was the cause of death in 42 % of the patients . therefore , it is important to evaluate liver reserve quickly . in addition , emergency hemostatic procedures must be implemented to avoid hemorrhagic shock . although two-stage hepatectomy was performed in only 12 % of the cases , these had the highest survival rates . consequently , this is the procedure of choice for the treatment of spontaneous rupture of a hcc . 
modified kraske approach for disease of the mid-rectum . a modification of dr. paul kraske 's approach for removal of mid-rectal lesions has been used in 11 patients from 1977 to 1988 by the senior authors . patients ranged in age from 56 to 89 yr , with an average of 67 yr . there were seven male and four female patients . indications for surgery were as follows : villous adenoma ( seven ) , carcinoid ( one ) , recurrent dysplasia in a previous endoscopic polypectomy site ( one ) , positive distal margin for neoplasm following low anterior sigmoid resection ( one ) , and adenocarcinoma in one elderly poor-risk patient . all lesions were in the middle rectum ( 7-11 cm from the anal verge , average 9 cm ) . the postoperative stay ranged from 6 to 12 days with a mean of 8 days . the average follow-up for the 11 patients is 3 1/2 yr ( 1 month to 7 yr ) , with only one patient having a local recurrent lesion . there was no morbidity or mortality . we conclude that this modification of the kraske approach offers a good alternative for excision of mid-rectal lesions in terms of technical ease , efficacy , safety , and patient tolerance . the modified kraske approach is indicated in certain situations and should be a part of the surgeon 's armamentarium . 
disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection with hepatic involvement in a patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . extrapulmonary infection with pneumocystis carinii ( p. carinii ) in aids patients is uncommon , and is often described only at postmortem examination . although most antemortem cases involve spread to the bone marrow or spleen , p. carinii involvement of other organs has only recently been described . despite the frequency of liver enzyme abnormalities in aids patients with a history of p. carinii pneumonia , p. carinii has been observed only rarely in the liver . we present a well-documented case of p. carinii involving the liver in an aids patient with p. carinii pneumonia and progressive liver enzyme abnormalities . we suggest that p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of aids-related liver disease . 
nodular regenerative hyperplasia : a cause of ascites and hepatomegaly after chemotherapy for leukemia . tender hepatomegaly and ascites occurred in a young woman receiving cytosine arabinoside and daunorubicin for acute myelogenous leukemia . whereas veno-occlusive disease was suspected clinically , liver biopsy showed nodular regenerative hyperplasia with no evidence of hepatic vein abnormalities . it is postulated that nodular regenerative hyperplasia can be initiated by hepatotoxicity of chemotherapy agents used to treat leukemia and/or that these agents exacerbate clinical manifestations of this histological abnormality . nodular regenerative hyperplasia should be added to the list of liver problems occurring in patients with leukemia . 
chylous ascites due to sarcoidosis . a 33-yr-old black female with systemic sarcoidosis developed chylous ascites . a ct scan showed extensive mesenteric lymphadenopathy . at laparotomy , the mesenteric and para-aortic lymph nodes were enlarged and diffusely matted . histologically , normal lymph node morphology was virtually replaced with noncaseating granulomas . corticosteroids and dietary manipulations were unsuccessful in managing the ascites , and repeated large-volume paracentesis was necessary to provide symptomatic treatment . this is the first reported case of chylous ascites caused by sarcoidosis . 
enteroliths causing intermittent obstruction in a patient with crohn 's disease . calcified enteroliths as a cause of intermittent small bowel obstruction is an uncommon clinical entity . the pathophysiological mechanism involves stasis of intestinal contents and has been associated with meckel 's diverticulum , tuberculosis , and regional enteritis . this case describes prophylactic operative intervention in a symptomatic patient with enteroliths as a result of crohn 's disease . 
successful prophylaxis for fungal peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis : six years ' experience [ published erratum appears in am j kidney dis 1991 jun ; 17 ( 6 ) :726 ] fungal peritonitis as a serious complication of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) is often associated with severe morbidity , capd " drop-out " and , occasionally , death . most episodes of fungal peritonitis occur during or after a period of antibiotic treatment of various bacterial infections , usually bacterial peritonitis . from april 1979 to december 1982 ( period i ) , 10 episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 415 patient-months , ie , 10.5 % of all peritonitis episodes recorded in our capd program . after the introduction of oral prophylaxis with 3 x 500,000 iu [ corrected ] nystatin during every course of antibiotic treatment , only four episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 2,102 patient-months , ie , 3.1 % of all peritonitis episodes from january 1983 to march 1989 ( period ii ) . this difference between the first and second periods is significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . moreover , none of the four patients who contracted fungal peritonitis in the second period received nystatin prophylaxis . thus , the simple measure of oral prophylaxis using this nonabsorbable antifungal agent in every case of an antibiotic treatment largely eliminates the risk of fungal peritonitis in patients on capd . 
chemical peritonitis secondary to intraperitoneal vancomycin . although previously reported in the literature , the existence of chemical peritonitis due to vancomycin in patients on peritoneal dialysis remains controversial . we report four similar episodes of sterile peritonitis in three patients receiving intraperitoneal ( ip ) vancomycin . the prior report implicated a change in the brand of vancomycin preparation , from vancocin to vancoled , as a contributing factor . we noted the occurrence of such episodes following a switch from vancocin to a generic preparation from abbott laboratories . high-performance liquid chromatographic ( hplc ) profiles of the three preparations show vancocin to have a lower level of impurities than the other two ; the presence of certain contaminants in the other brands may be contributing to the clinical difference observed . we conclude that chemical peritonitis due to ip vancomycin administration does occur , and that increased awareness of this entity could allow other cases to be identified . 
ascites revealing peritoneal and hepatic extramedullary hematopoiesis with peliosis in agnogenic myeloid metaplasia : case report and review of the literature . a 61-year-old man presented with ascites in the course of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia ( amm ) . ascitic fluid was exudative and contained mature and immature leukocytes , erythroid cells , and megakaryocytes as observed on a bone marrow smear . peritoneal biopsy showed myeloid metaplasia , and liver biopsy revealed intrasinusoidal myeloid metaplasia and peliosis . ascites cleared after abdominal radiotherapy but treatment resulted in transient aplasia . subsequently , portal hypertension was demonstrated by hepatic transjugular catheterization . complications of splenomegaly led to splenectomy and splenorenal shunt followed by fatal acute hepatitis and septic shock . a review of the literature and an analysis of mechanisms of ascites occurring in amm , especially peritoneal implants of myeloid tissue and occurrence of peliosis in myeloproliferative disorders , are presented . 
endoscopic sclerotherapy in extrahepatic portal hypertension in pregnancy . extrahepatic portal hypertension usually occurs during childhood , but a substantial number of patients may reach adult life . there is a general agreement that pregnancy may become hazardous to these patients , and some authors even consider this condition as a contraindication to conceiving . a case of endoscopic sclerotherapy in such a patient is herein presented , and the approach to such patients is discussed . 
a comparative study of gastrointestinal infections in united states soldiers receiving doxycycline or mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis . a double blind study of daily doxycycline ( 100 mg ) vs. weekly mefloquine ( 250 mg ) was performed on united states soldiers training in thailand to assess the effect of doxycycline malaria prophylaxis on the incidence of gastrointestinal infections . during a 5 week period , 49 % ( 58/119 ) of soldiers receiving doxycycline and 48 % ( 64/134 ) of soldiers receiving mefloquine reported an episode of diarrhea . infection with bacterial enteric pathogens was identified in 39 % ( 47/119 ) of soldiers taking doxycycline and 46 % ( 62/134 ) of soldiers taking mefloquine . forty-four percent ( 59/134 ) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 36 % ( 43/119 ) of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with enterotoxigenic escherichia coli ( etec ) , while 9 % ( 12/134 ) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 4 % of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with campylobacter . side effects from either medication were minimal . after 5 weeks in thailand , the percent of non-etec strains resistant to greater than or equal to 2 antibiotics increased from 65 % ( 77/119 ) to 86 % ( 95/111 ) in soldiers on mefloquine and from 79 % ( 84/106 ) to 93 % ( 88/95 ) in soldiers on doxycycline . doxycycline prophylaxis did not prevent or increase diarrheal disease in soldiers deployed to thailand where etec and other bacterial pathogens are often resistant to tetracyclines . 
transmission of rift valley fever virus by adult mosquitoes after ingestion of virus as larvae [ published erratum appears in am j trop med hyg 1991 jun ; 44 ( 6 ) :580 ] we studied the ability of culex pipiens , aedes circumluteolus , and ae . mcintoshi , exposed as larvae to liver tissue from a rift valley fever ( rvf ) virus-infected hamster , to become infected and transstadially transmit virus to the adult and for the adults to transmit virus by bite to hamsters . after exposure as larvae , 9 % ( 5/54 ) of adult cx . pipiens and 8 % ( 38/505 ) of the adult ae . ( neomelaniconion ) species were infected . all of the infected cx . pipiens and about half of the infected ae . circumluteolus and ae . mcintoshi tested transmitted rvf virus by bite to hamsters . transmission rates for mosquitoes orally infected as larvae were higher than those for mosquitoes orally infected as adults . animals infected with rvf virus may abort or die in the vicinity of mosquito larvae breeding habitats and infected tissue from these animals may contaminate the water . 
the current spectrum of peptic ulcer disease in the older age groups . not only has there been a relative increase in the prevalence of peptic ulcer disease ( pud ) among america 's older age groups , but the characteristics of pud in these patients differ significantly from those of the general population . seventy-two consecutive patients 60 years of age or older who underwent operation for pud between 1984 and 1989 were studied . the unusual features in these patients were 1 ) 92 per cent required emergency operation , 2 ) 57 per cent with perforated pud were female , 3 ) 85 per cent had duodenal pathology , 4 ) 28 per cent were currently taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents , and 5 ) over one half of all patients had serious postoperative complications . the increasing incidence and associated serious complications of pud in the elderly population present new challenges to physicians in the diagnosis and treatment of this disease . 
sinistral ( left-sided ) portal hypertension . between 1953 and 1988 , 21 patients with splenic vein thrombosis ( svt ) , 12 of whom had sinistral portal hypertension ( sph ) were treated at our institution . svt was identified at autopsy in nine patients . twelve additional patients presented with sph : bleeding esophageal varices , svt and normal hepatic function . svt was caused by pancreatic neoplasm ( 5 ) , chronic pancreatitis ( 5 ) , and pancreatic pseudocyst ( 2 ) . svt was diagnosed by splanchnic angiography , splenoportography , computerized tomography , and ultrasonography . gastric varices were diagnosed by endoscopy ( 10 ) and barium swallow ( 2 ) . splenectomy was performed as primary therapy in 10 patients . three of these 10 had en block distal pancreatectomy . two high-risk patients had splenic artery embolization , one as a prelude to splenectomy performed 48 hours later and the other as definitive therapy . one splenectomized patient continued to bleed . no further bleeding occurred in 10 splenectomized patients in follow-up from 1 week to 14 years . sinistral portal hypertension is a clinical syndrome of splenic vein thrombosis caused by pancreatic pathology and manifests as bleeding gastric varices in patients with a patent portal vein and normal hepatic function . splanchnic arteriography is necessary for accurate diagnosis . splenectomy is the effective treatment of choice . 
fine needle aspiration of pancreatic fluid collections . the complications of pancreatitis remain diagnostic and therapeutic challenges . patients with simple pancreatitis , pancreatic necrosis , pseudocyst , noninfected fluid collection or abscess may all have similar clinical pictures . during the last decade computerized tomography ( ct ) - guided needle aspiration of peripancreatic fluid collections has been increasingly used as a diagnostic tool for pancreatic abscesses . this study reviewed the effectiveness of ct-guided needle aspiration of peripancreatic fluid collections at our institution in terms of diagnostic accuracy , correlation with eventual outcome , and safety . charts of patients who underwent needle aspiration of de novo peripancreatic fluid collections over the past 2 years were reviewed . thirty-five patients underwent 50 aspirations . eleven patients ( 31 % ) had a positive aspirate culture ; seven of these had a positive gram 's stain . there were no false positive gram 's stains but four false negatives . twenty-four ( 69 % ) patients had negative aspirate gram 's stains and cultures . patients with positive aspirate cultures were treated with antibiotics only ( 2 ) , ct-guided drain placement ( 7 ) , or surgical drainage ( 3 ) . the mortality related to each of these therapeutic modalities was 50 per cent , 0 per cent , and 33 per cent , respectively . of the 24 patients with negative aspirate cultures , five had no further treatment , 12 received antibiotics , and six underwent ct drain placement . all these patients survived . there was one false negative aspirate culture . this patient underwent delayed surgical drainage but expired . there were no major complications from ct-guided aspiration . ct-guided aspiration appears to be a safe and reliable method of diagnosing infection in peripancreatic fluid collections . 
the intracolonic bypass tube for left colon and rectal trauma . the avoidance of a colostomy . traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum are most frequently managed by procedures that include the formation of a colostomy . primary repair without colostomy is much less commonly employed . we report nine patients with traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum treated with the intracolonic bypass tube ( icbt ) without concomitant colostomy . in all these patients we believe the standard treatment would have included fecal diversion . four patients sustained blunt trauma and five sustained penetrating trauma . healing of the colonic anastomosis occurred in all cases , and the icbts were passed per rectum between the tenth and nineteenth days postoperatively . on the basis of this study , we conclude that the icbt has a role in the treatment of selected injuries of the left colon and rectum as a safe means of avoiding a colostomy . 
one-stage repair of colovaginal fistula complicating acute diverticulitis . fourteen patients with colovaginal fistula secondary to sigmoid diverticulitis were seen between 1964 and 1988 . thirteen had undergone prior hysterectomy . three different operative approaches were used . three patients were treated with colostomy alone ; one died and the fistula persisted in one . five patients underwent staged procedures . one patient died of complications after the second stage of a planned three-stage procedure . four patients underwent a two-stage procedure ( fistula takedown , colectomy with colostomy and colostomy closure ) , all with good results . six patients were treated with one-stage fistula takedown , colectomy and primary anastomosis , without major complication . we advocate this as the procedure of choice and emphasize the following principles of epidemiology and management : 1 ) colovaginal fistula complicates diverticulitis in elderly women usually following hysterectomy ; this association may be a factor in etiology ; 2 ) vaginography is useful in diagnosis ; and 3 ) planned one-stage repair is the best surgical approach . 
the importance of intraoperative cholangiography during laparoscopic cholecystectomy . laparoscopic cholecystectomy ( lc ) using electrocoagulation was successfully performed in 56 out of 58 selected patients . cholangiography was performed in 53 patients . six patients had common duct stones ; five were unsuspected preoperatively . after the gallbladder was removed , three patients underwent open common duct exploration . in another five cases , anatomical anomalies were discovered . cholangiography performed via the cystic duct before any structures are divided can prevent the most serious complication -- common duct injury . cholangiography should be attempted on all patients undergoing lc . 
the clinical significance of fluid collections in acute pancreatitis . computed tomography ( ct ) displays fluid collections in patients with acute pancreatitis as well defined intra - or extrapancreatic homogeneous areas with low attenuation numbers . we followed , prospectively , the clinical courses of 128 patients who had ct during an episode of acute pancreatitis , to determine the natural history and clinical significance of any fluid collections that developed . fluid collections were found in 48 ( 37 % ) of the 128 patients with pancreatitis . thirty-eight developed in the 86 ( 44 % ) patients with alcoholic pancreatitis , five in the 33 ( 15 % ) with biliary pancreatitis and five in the nine ( 55 % ) with other causes of pancreatitis ( excluding chronic pancreatitis , trauma , or malignancy ) . on clinical follow-up of the 48 patients with fluid collections , 21 patients required operation ; two died before an operation was done and 25 did not require operation . operations were done to treat pseudocysts ( 14 ) , abscess ( 5 ) , and necrosis ( 3 ) . one patient had an operation for a pseudocyst and an abscess . all 14 patients requiring operation for pseudocyst had collections greater than 7 cm and 13 of these patients had alcoholic pancreatitis . of the 25 patients not requiring operation , five were lost to follow-up , and 19 of the 20 who had spontaneous resolution of their fluid collection ( s ) had collections less than 6 cm in diameter . the eight patients who required operative pancreatic debridement for abscess or necrosis had multiple small fluid collections . in summary , fluid collections were found in one-third of patients with acute pancreatitis and were often associated with the development of local complications . 
inguinal hernia complicating flexible sigmoidoscopy . flexible sigmoidoscopy has become part of routine preoperative workup for patients over the age of fifty who present with an inguinal hernia . a recent experience with two patients with a left inguinal hernia allowing sigmoid colon to herniate into the scrotum bring awareness of the possibility for an increased risk of perforation of the sigmoid colon during flexible sigmoidoscopy , or possible iatrogenic incarceration of the hernia . these cases are presented so this clinical entity can be recognized and the complications prevented . 
gallbladder wall thickening ( congestive cholecystopathy ) in chronic liver disease : a sign of portal hypertension . a thickened gallbladder wall is often seen with ultrasound in alcoholic cirrhosis . hypoalbuminaemia is thought to be the cause since there is a strong association between bowel wall thickening and low serum albumin . to determine the role of portal hypertension in producing gallbladder wall thickening we studied 40 consecutive stable patients-37 with cirrhosis and three with portal hypertension due to primary biliary cirrhosis . ultrasound assessment of the gallbladder wall was made after an overnight fast using a technicare autosector . wall thickness 4 mm or greater was considered abnormal . twenty-seven patients had a thickened gallbladder wall and all had evidence of portal hypertension . hypoalbuminaemia was not an important factor since it was only present in six cases with thickened walls . in two cases reduction in portal pressure with oral propranolol was associated with a decrease in gallbladder wall thickness . these results suggest that portal hypertension , not hypoalbuminaemia , is the dominant factor causing gallbladder wall thickening in cirrhosis . ultrasound demonstration of gallbladder wall thickening in chronic liver disease should suggest the presence of portal hypertension . 
microsurgical epididymovasostomy by tubule intussusception : a new technique in rat model . this experimental study on 15 adult male rats with bilateral epididymovasostomies evaluates a new technique of tubule intussusception as an improved form of end-to-end anastomosis . this paper describes in detail the steps in this technique and offers physiological , anatomical , and histological follow-up after 3 months . with this technique there is a 97 % patency rate and a 23.3 % incidence of macroscopic spermatic granuloma . complications are discussed in detail . 
plasma glucagon concentration in cirrhosis is related to liver function but not to portal-systemic shunting , systemic vascular resistance , or urinary sodium excretion . we tested the hypothesis that increased plasma glucagon concentration resulting from portal-systemic shunting or liver dysfunction causes arterial vasodilation and thereby stimulates sodium retention in cirrhosis . twenty-seven studies were performed in patients with alcoholic liver disease , 11 of whom had ascites . liver function was quantitated as the elimination rate of antipyrine , caffeine , and stable isotopes of cholic acid administered both orally ( 2,2,4,4-2h ) and intravenously ( 24-13c ) . portal-systemic shunt fraction was calculated as the ratio of the intravenous and oral clearances of the isotopes of cholic acid . cardiac output was measured by using doppler echocardiography . plasma glucagon concentration was increased in patients with ascites when compared with that in patients without ascites ( 474 + / - 180 pg/ml vs 245 + / - 120 pg/ml , p = 0.0007 ) but was unrelated to urinary sodium excretion , heart rate , mean arterial pressure , cardiac output , and systemic vascular resistance ( r = -0.48 , 0.35 , -0.13 , 0.18 , and 0.22 , respectively ) . plasma glucagon concentration correlated with the half-lives of all model compounds ( r = 0.58 , p = 0.002 ; r = 0.62 , p = 0.0008 ; r = 0.62 , p = 0.001 ; and r = 0.64 , p = 0.0005 ; for caffeine , antipyrine , oral and intravenous cholic acid , respectively ) but not with shunt fraction ( r = 0.14 ) . increased plasma glucagon concentration in cirrhosis is probably a result of diminished hepatic clearance . however , increased plasma concentration of glucagon does not appear to cause a hyperdynamic circulatory state or sodium retention . 
mesenteric blood flow in patients with diabetic neuropathy . we examined flow velocities in the superior mesenteric artery and celiac artery in normal controls ( group c , n = 11 ) , diabetic patients ( group d , n = 8 ) , and diabetic patients with clinically evident autonomic neuropathy ( group dn , n = 6 ) to further define the usefulness of duplex examination in the evaluation of the mesenteric circulation in normal and disease states . by use of a 3 mhz duplex scanner , peak systolic velocity , peak diastolic forward velocity , end-diastolic forward velocity , and peak diastolic reverse velocity were measured in centimeters per second before and after a standardized meal . the vessels ' diameters in centimeters were also measured . after the meal peak diastolic reverse velocity disappeared in all patients . the average vessel diameter in the superior mesenteric artery ( 0.7 cm ) and celiac artery ( 0.8 cm ) did not change . flow velocities in the celiac artery were not significantly altered by the meal . in the control group , peak systolic velocity in the superior mesenteric artery increased 38 % , peak diastolic forward velocity rose 66 % , and end-diastolic forward velocity increased by 70 % . in the diabetic nonneuropathic group the changes were 15 % , 98 % , and 100 % , respectively . these changes were statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . on the other hand , the patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy presenting a picture of gastroparesis did not exhibit the expected increases in postprandial velocities . moreover , this alteration in blood flow velocity , although similar to that encountered in patients with intestinal angina , did not appear to be due to occlusive arterial disease on the basis of clinical examination and b-mode scanning . 
the effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests . serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation , which so often accompany systemic illness , have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy . we have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests : a decreased serum t3 concentration ; normal or , in critically ill patients , a low total serum t4 level ; and a normal free t4 concentration . another , less frequent pattern ( high total and free t4 with a normal serum t3 ) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient . with the recent advent of sensitive assays for tsh and better methods for serum free t4 , it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients ; the vast majority are euthyroid . certain drugs confound the picture . the most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids , both of which suppress tsh secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism . other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices ( e.g. , amiodarone ) . knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness , starvation , and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease . 
elevated plasma aluminum levels in normal infants receiving antacids containing aluminum . aluminum toxicity is a documented cause of encephalopathy , anemia , and osteomalacia . excretion is primarily renal ; therefore , patients with renal insufficiency are at risk for aluminum accumulation and toxicity . this has been demonstrated in uremic children treated with aluminum-containing antacids . the purpose of this study was to determine whether plasma aluminum levels were elevated in infants with normal renal function during prolonged aluminum-containing antacid use . ten study infants ( mean age = 5.8 months ) , who had been receiving antacids for at least 1 week , were compared with 16 control infants ( mean age = 9.8 months ) not receiving antacids . the study patients consumed 123 + / - 16 mg/kg per day ( mean + / - sem ) of elemental aluminum for an average of 4.7 weeks . their plasma aluminum level ( 37.2 + / - 7.13 micrograms/l ) was significantly greater than that of the control group ( 4.13 + / - 0.66 micrograms/l ) ( p less than .005 ) . it is concluded that plasma aluminum levels may become elevated in infants with normal renal function who are consuming high doses of aluminum-containing antacids . the safety of antacids containing aluminum should not be assumed and they should be used judiciously in infants , with careful monitoring of the aluminum dose and plasma level . 
gi symptoms , function , and psychophysiological arousal in dysmenorrheic women . in a previous study , gastrointestinal ( gi ) symptoms and stool characteristics were found to be influenced by menstrual cycle phase . the current study was designed to replicate initial work regarding gi symptoms and stool characteristics and to explore the relationships between gi symptoms , stool characteristics , ovarian hormone levels , and indicators of psychophysiological arousal . fifty women ( dysmenorrheic , n = 22 ; nondysmenorrheic , n = 28 ) maintained a daily dairy for recording stool characteristics , gi symptoms , and daily anxiety level . first morning void urine specimens for catecholamine assays and serum samples for ovarian hormone and cortisol determinations were obtained at menses , follicular , and luteal phases . results showed menstrual cycle-related differences in stool characteristics and report of gi symptoms , with the greatest changes occurring at menses in the total sample . dysmenorrheic women reported higher levels of all gi symptoms at menses as compared to nondysmenorrheic women . in addition , cycle-related differences in serum cortisol , urine catecholamines , and report of anxiety were also noted , particularly in dysmenorrheic women . however , looser stools and gi symptoms at menses were not correlated with absolute levels of ovarian hormones or indicators of psychophysiological arousal . 
pancreatic response to percutaneous biliary drainage : a prospective study . to evaluate the effects of percutaneous biliary drainage ( pbd ) on the pancreas , serum amylase levels were measured for 7 consecutive days after pbd and compared with baseline values in 50 patients who underwent a total of 53 pbd procedures . of the 45 patients with normal baseline serum amylase levels , 12 patients ( 24 % ) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia without clinical symptoms and five patients ( 10 % ) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia with clinical signs of pancreatitis . five patients who presented with elevated baseline serum amylase levels demonstrated decreases into the normal range after placement of stents without initiation of bowel rest or liquid diet . the level of biliary obstruction proved insignificant , as did the nature of the obstructing disease , in determining which patients would experience hyperamylasemia or pancreatitis after pbd . it is concluded that the frequency of pancreatic insult from pbd may be more common than previously reported and that patient susceptibility is not dependent on the level of biliary obstruction or the nature of the disease . 
gastric emptying in infants and children : limited utility of 1-hour measurement . gastric emptying measurements were performed in infants and children at 1 and 2 hours after a liquid feeding . the 1-hour measurements were predictive of only 58 % of the variability in the 2-hour measurements , indicating that the 1-hour measurement was not a good predictor of the 2-hour measurement . gastric emptying measurements in children should be continued until 2 hours after feeding unless rapid emptying is observed during the 1st hour of the study . 
gallstone lithotripsy : relevant physical principles and technical issues . a basic understanding of shock wave generation is essential for the radiologist who performs gallstone lithotripsy . shock waves differ from ordinary acoustic waves in that they have a rapid rise time , a positive pressure component that gives rise to compressive forces approaching 1,000 atm , and a low-amplitude sustained negative pressure ( rarefactive ) component . shock waves are created by means of three different types of shock wave generators : spark-gap , electromagnetic , and piezoelectric . the authors describe and compare these three types of shock wave generators with regard to equipment selection . regardless of how shock waves are generated , they share common interactions with tissue . these interactions are reviewed along with the proposed mechanisms of stone fragmentation . 
rectal strictures : treatment with fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation . the authors performed 25 fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation procedures in nine patients with rectal strictures . in all cases , the stricture developed after rectal surgery . four patients underwent ileoanal anastomosis after total colectomy for various conditions ; five patients underwent rectosigmoid end-to-end anastomosis after resection of a tumor or as treatment for diverticulitis . maximal stricture dilatation was attained in 20 instances with a single 15-30-mm balloon . in five procedures , two balloons ( 20 or 15 mm ) were inflated simultaneously ( " kissing balloons " technique ) to dilate the strictures . in five patients , only one dilation procedure was required for effective treatment of the strictures , with no clinical evidence of strictures after follow-up of 1.5-56 months ( mean , 29.5 months ) . in the other four patients , multiple procedures were performed : nine in one patient , five in one patient , and three in two patients . in these patients , no recurrent symptoms developed during follow-up of 1.25-18 months ( mean , 8.1 months ) after the last dilation . complicating leaks , infection , or hemorrhage did not occur after any of the procedures . fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation is a safe and effective procedure for the treatment of rectal strictures . 
air in the fissure for the ligamentum teres : new sign of intraperitoneal air on plain radiographs . in each of four patients in whom an acute spontaneous pneumoperitoneum developed , a vertically directed area of hyperlucency in the right upper quadrant was seen on radiographs of the abdomen obtained with the patient supine . this finding , which appeared in the absence of other characteristic signs of free air on plain radiographs and which , to the authors ' knowledge , has not been previously recognized , represented intraperitoneal gas confined to the fissure for the ligamentum teres ( flt ) . the location of the hyperlucent area was confirmed with computed tomography or laparotomy in each patient . the distinctive configuration of air in the flt is a subtle but reliable indicator of pneumoperitoneum . 
benign and malignant nodules in cirrhotic livers : distinction based on blood supply . the blood supplies of nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis were analyzed in vivo with various imaging modalities . the portal blood supply was evaluated with computed tomography ( ct ) during arterial portography ( ctap ) ; the arterial blood supply was evaluated with hepatic angiography , ct angiography , ct following intraarterial injection of iodized oil , or ultrasound following intraarterial injection of carbon dioxide microbubbles . a total of 84 surgically confirmed hepatocellular carcinomas ( hccs ) ( less than or equal to 3 cm ) and 25 areas of adenomatous hyperplasia ( ah ) were included in the study . at ctap , a portal blood supply was seen in 96 % of cases of ah and only 6 % of hccs ( chi 2 , p less than .005 ) . in contrast , an arterial supply greater than that of the surrounding liver was verified in 94 % of the hccs and only 4 % of the cases of ah ( chi 2 , p less than .005 ) . the blood supply of areas of ah with atypical hepatocytes and the blood supply of well-differentiated hccs ( edmondson grade 1 ) tended to be intermediate between that of ah without atypia and that of hcc that was edmondson and steiner grade 2 or greater . evaluation of the blood supply of the nodular lesions associated with liver cirrhosis is considered to be useful in the differential diagnosis and treatment of early-stage hcc . 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones : results and 6-month follow-up in 141 patients . a study of biliary shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones sponsored by dornier medical systems , munich , began in the united states in may 1988 to evaluate the efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) and the need for adjunctive therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid ( udca ) . one hundred forty-one symptomatic patients with one to three gallstones 5-30 mm in diameter were randomized to treatment . one week before eswl , patients were given either udca or placebo . this treatment was continued for 6 months . all patients underwent follow-up at predetermined intervals . according to the protocol , re-treatment for fragments larger than 5 mm in diameter could be performed only at 6 weeks ; 26 ( 18 % ) of the 141 patients were retreated . at 6 months , the stone-free rates for single stones were as follows : patients with noncalcified stones receiving udca , 29 % ; patients with noncalcified stones receiving placebo , 24 % ; and patients with partially calcified stones receiving either udca or placebo , 6 % . no significant difference was noted between the udca and placebo groups . at 6 months , the stone-free rates in patients with single , noncalcified stones 20 mm or less in diameter were 40 % ( udca ) and 32 % ( placebo ) , which is superior to rates for those with solitary , noncalcified gallstones 21-30 mm in diameter and those with two or three stones . 
liver cirrhosis : changes of doppler waveform of hepatic veins [ published erratum appears in radiology 1991 aug ; 100 ( 2 ) :586 ] the authors compared the doppler ultrasonographic pattern of hepatic veins ( hvs ) in a group of 60 patients affected by liver cirrhosis and in 65 healthy subjects comparable for sex and age to ( a ) detect possible differences in hv waveform in the two groups and ( b ) investigate the relationship of these differences with the severity of the disease ( according to child-pugh classification ) and the modifications of systemic hemodynamics . the waveform of hvs was arbitrarily classified into three patterns : hv0 , a normal waveform ; hv1 , lower oscillations without the reversed phase ; and hv2 , completely flat waveform . the resistivity index of the superior mesenteric artery , reflecting the peripheral splanchnic impedance and the hyperdynamic circulation , was also measured in a subgroup of 45 cirrhotic patients . the waveform of hvs in all healthy subjects corresponded to the hv0 pattern . among cirrhotic patients , hv0 was found in 30 ( 50 % ) , hv1 in 19 ( 31.7 % ) , and hv2 in 11 ( 81.3 % ) . the severity of functional impairment was greatest in the hv2 group and least in the hv0 group . this was significantly correlated with the decrease of the resistivity index in the superior mesenteric artery in the subgroup of 45 patients . changes in the normal hv waveform could be considered a useful adjunctive tool for the noninvasive evaluation of liver disease . the pathophysiology of these changes in hv blood flow is still unclear . the significant correlation with the severity of the disease and with the decrease of splanchnic resistances indicates that these changes in the hv waveform occur in the presence of marked rearrangements of liver tissue and of hyperdynamic systemic circulation . 
gastric antral vascular ectasia ( " watermelon stomach " ) : radiologic findings . radiologic findings in a patient with gastric antral vascular ectasia are described on computed tomographic scans , upper gastrointestinal series , and specimen radiographs . findings include prominent , scalloped antral folds radiating to the pylorus and thickening of the gastric antrum . pathognomonic red vascular folds , likened to stripes on a watermelon , can be seen endoscopically . 
acute lower respiratory tract infections in hospitalized patients with diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh . this study focused on 401 children less than 5 years old who were hospitalized with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) and diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh , and who were investigated for the presence of both bacterial and viral respiratory tract pathogens as well as for selected diarrheal pathogens . the most common manifestations of alri were pneumonia ( 374 cases ) , bronchiolitis ( 12 cases ) , and tracheobronchitis ( 11 cases ) . the majority ( 77 % ) of the illnesses were in children less than 2 years of age , and 88 % of the children were malnourished . a respiratory tract pathogen was identified in 30 % of the patients , and a diarrheal pathogen was identified in 34 % . the overall case-fatality rate in children with alri and diarrhea was 8 % . the case-fatality rate was 14 % in children with bacterial pneumonia and diarrhea , 3 % in those with viral pneumonia and diarrhea , and 14 % in malnourished children with shigellosis and alri . the most common respiratory tract pathogens were respiratory syncytial virus , streptococcus pneumoniae , influenza viruses , and haemophilus influenzae type b. 
achieving ph control in the critically ill patient : the role of continuous infusion of h2-receptor antagonists . stress-related gastric mucosal damage is a common occurrence in intensive care unit ( icu ) patients . because of the significant morbidity and mortality associated with this mucosal damage , many icu patients routinely receive prophylactic therapy , usually with histamine h2-receptor antagonists ( h2ras ) . gastric acid secretion occurs in a circadian pattern , with late afternoon and evening surges . h2ras by continuous infusion may control this uneven pattern of secretion more effectively than h2ras given by bolus injection . more studies are needed to identify the target icu population for prophylactic treatment . 
hemodynamic effects of h2-receptor antagonists . histamine h2-receptor antagonists ( h2ras ) often are administered to intensive care unit patients in an attempt to reduce gastric acidity and to prevent stress-related mucosal damage . these agents have an extremely low overall incidence and severity of adverse reactions ; however , hemodynamically significant hypotension has been noted . clinical studies with rapidly administered intravenous cimetidine in critically ill patients have demonstrated a depression in blood pressure in up to 75 percent of patients . ranitidine , also studied in this setting , does not appear to induce similar hemodynamic changes . the newer h2ras , famotidine and nizatidine , have not been evaluated in critically ill patients . 
use of h2-receptor antagonists in children . h2-receptor antagonists ( h2ras ) have evolved into the mainstay of anti-acid therapy for pediatric patients , replacing antacids and other modes of therapy . much of the experience and data used for therapeutic decisions in children , however , have been extrapolated from adult studies . ranitidine and cimetidine have been studied most extensively in the adult and pediatric populations . both raise gastric ph and achieve other therapeutic endpoints ; however , cimetidine appears to have a greater frequency of both adversed effects and drug interactions . h2ras are the preferred agents for prevention of stress ulcers , ulcer disease , and reflux esophagitis in the pediatric population . 
sclerotherapy for esophageal varices . endoscopic injection sclerotherapy ( eis ) frequently is used for patients with esophageal varices , both for controlling acute hemorrhage and for prophylaxis . an old technique , interest in eis increased when other methods did not improve patient outcomes . clinical trials of eis for acute hemorrhage demonstrated efficacy and improved outcome , although some researchers disagree with these findings . recent data on prophylaxis with eis fail to support the value of eis for this indication . ethanolamine oleate compares favorably with other sclerosing agents , and is the only one currently approved for eis . the intravariceal method is used more frequently than the paravariceal method because it has better efficacy and can be performed more rapidly . the percentage of patients developing significant complications from eis may be as high as 15 percent ; common complications include retrosternal pain , pyrexia , and sepsis . eis is currently an important clinical tool in the management of esophageal varices . 
pathophysiologic changes in the critically ill patient : risk factors for ulceration and altered drug metabolism . virtually all patients who are under the physiologic stress of an intensive care unit ( icu ) are vulnerable to stress-related mucosal damage and ulceration . although clinically significant hemorrhage from stress ulceration occurs in only 5-20 percent of patients in the icu , the associated mortality is greater than 50 percent . the pathophysiologic mechanisms of stress ulcer are not well understood ; however , a number of risk factors such as intraluminal gastric acidity and mucosal ischemia have been implicated . to prevent the development of stress ulcers and subsequent complications , it is important to identify and correct these underlying risk factors . improving mucosal blood flow ( i.e. , fluid resuscitation and low-dose dopamine ) and providing adequate nutritional support are invaluable adjuncts in minimizing the risk of stress ulcer formation . the use of pharmacologic prophylaxis controls the gastric acidity and prevents the formation of stress ulcers . the potential for drug-induced adverse effects and drug-drug interactions are of particular concern in the care of critically ill patients . multiple organ system dysfunction or failure , malnutrition , fluid and electrolyte abnormalities , as well as the use of multiple pharmacologic agents predispose these patients to alterations in drug pharmacokinetics , drug-induced adverse effects and drug-drug interactions . these changes may alter the pharmacodynamic response to therapy and must be considered when designing drug dosage regimens for critically ill patients . 
ondansetron : a new entity in emesis control . nausea and vomiting are serious problems for patients receiving cancer chemotherapy . dopamine receptor and cholinergic receptor antagonism have been the target mechanism for agents used to combat drug-induced nausea and vomiting ; more recently , blockade of serotonin receptors has been used for this indication . current therapies are limited by extrapyramidal adverse effects , as well as drowsiness , sedation , respiratory depression , and cardiac effects . ondansetron is an investigational serotonin antagonist that has documented effectiveness for cancer chemotherapy-induced emesis . ondansetron appears to be well tolerated , with the possible exception of headaches and transient increases in liver enzymes . no extrapyramidal toxicities have been reported with this agent . while ondansetron looks promising , further studies are needed to fully define its role as an antiemetic . 
pathophysiology , monitoring , and management of the ventilator-dependent patient : considerations for drug therapy , emphasis on stress ulcer prophylaxis . adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , or noncardiac pulmonary edema , is a form of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure . the goals of treatment for patients with ards are to provide supportive therapy , to reverse the underlying etiology or pathology , and to prevent subsequent complications . supportive therapy consists of supplemental oxygen , positive end-expiratory pressure , and , often , mechanical ventilation . the reversal of the underlying pathology varies according to the etiologic origin of ards . complications from ards include stress ulcers , which occur when gastric aggressive and defensive functions become unbalanced . antacids and cytoprotective agents are used for stress ulcer prophylaxis , but histamine h2-receptor antagonists are now regarded as the standard of care . because all the marketed h2-receptor antagonists are efficacious , choice of the agent is based on the adverse effect profile and drug interactions . no definitive data currently exist linking stress ulcer prophylaxis regimens that raise intragastric ph to a significant risk for nosocomial pneumonia . 
surgical management of nonparasitic cystic liver disease . we report clinical features , surgical management , recurrences , and follow-up study of 12 patients with simple hepatic cyst , 11 patients with polycystic liver disease , and 19 patients with cystadenoma who were surgically treated over a 25-year period . the median age of patients was 48 years , and 37 women and 5 men were in the series . the most common presenting symptom and physical finding were chronic abdominal pain and tenderness in the right upper quadrant . the most commonly associated disease was polycystic kidney disease , which was an associated finding in 5 of the 11 patients with polycystic liver disease ( 45 % ) . the most valuable diagnostic studies in all groups were computed tomography and ultrasonography . the location of the disease was bilobar in patients with polycystic liver disease , with a right lobe predominance in 18 % of patients . the right lobe was also predominant in 83 % of patients with simple hepatic cyst and 58 % of patients with cystadenoma . of all solitary cystic lesions in the left lobe , 75 % of them were cystadenomas . of the 66 surgical procedures performed , aspiration was associated with a failure rate of 100 % ; partial excision , a failure rate of 61 % ; and total excision and liver resection , a failure rate of 0 % . orthotopic liver transplantation was performed in three patients and was associated with two early deaths . partial excision relieved symptoms in three patients ( 43 % ) with polycystic liver disease . total excision , enucleation , or liver resection with cyst ( s ) is the treatment of choice for non-parasitic cystic lesions of the liver . 
glucose intolerance and hyperinsulinemia of cirrhosis are not results of spontaneous or surgical portosystemic shunting . to assess if spontaneous portosystemic shunting from collaterals contributes to the hyperinsulinemia of cirrhosis , 12 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis underwent a 5-hour oral glucose tolerance test 1 day before and 10 days after an elective side-to-side portacaval shunt . the glucose , insulin , and c peptide responses to oral glucose post-shunt were exaggerated but comparable to preoperative values . compared with preoperative values , the fasting molar ratio of c peptide to insulin postoperatively had increased 40 % ( 6.0 + / - 1.2 versus 8.4 + / - 0.7 ) , indicating improved hepatic function . these results suggest that extrahepatic portosystemic shunting secondary to spontaneous splanchnic collaterals plays little or no role in the hyperinsulinemia of cirrhosis . it appears that decreased hepatic degradation of insulin in these patients is secondary to hepatocellular dysfunction rather than a result of shunting of portal blood around the liver . 
prospective study of a prosthetic h-graft portacaval shunt . this study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the 8-mm gore-tex interposition h-graft portacaval shunt . thirty-six high-risk patients at the university of south florida-affiliated hospitals received small-diameter shunts because of bleeding esophagogastric varices over a recent 2-year period . portal vein and portal vein-inferior vena cava gradients were significantly reduced after shunting . these pressure changes were manifested clinically by the absence of variceal rebleeding and improvement of ascites ; in addition , the incidence of encephalopathy was low . the 8-mm graft maintained hepatopedal flow in 67 % of the patients , but reversal of flow did not result in complications commonly associated with poor portal perfusion . graft thrombosis occurred in four ( 11 % ) patients . all grafts were successfully revised , three by operative revision and one by an interventional radiologist . operative mortality was low ( 11 % ) , and morbidity was unusual . the small-diameter h-graft portacaval shunt is a safe and effective method of treatment for bleeding esophagogastric varices . 
why does somatostatin cause gallstones ? long-term administration of the somatostatin analogue , octreotide , is complicated by gallstone formation . somatostatin is known to inhibit hepatic bile secretion and gallbladder emptying . however , the effect of octreotide on gallbladder bile composition remains unknown . therefore , we tested the hypothesis that octretide would alter hepatic bile composition and cause gallbladder stasis , thereby increasing gallbladder bile solute concentrations . fourteen control prairie dogs received daily saline injections , whereas 10 animals received 1 micrograms of octreotide subcutaneously three times per day for 5 days . cholecystectomy and common bile duct cannulation were then performed . octreotide increased hepatic bile concentrations of bilirubin monoglucuronide ( p less than 0.05 ) , total bilirubin ( p less than 0.05 ) , and total protein ( p less than 0.01 ) . rsa , an index of gallbladder stasis , was decreased ( p less than 0.01 ) in the octreotide group . gallbladder bile total calcium ( p less than 0.05 ) , bilirubin monoglucuronide ( p less than 0.05 ) , total bilirubin ( p less than 0.01 ) , total protein ( p less than 0.05 ) , and total lipids ( p less than 0.05 ) were increased in the octreotide group . animals receiving octreotide also had decreased hepatic ( p less than 0.05 ) and gallbladder ( p less than 0.001 ) bile ph. no differences in cholesterol saturation index were observed . these data suggest that in the prairie dog , octreotide ( 1 ) alters hepatic bile composition , ( 2 ) causes gallbladder stasis , and ( 3 ) increases gallbladder bile calcium , bilirubin , protein , lipid , and hydrogen ion concentrations . we conclude that octreotide causes alterations in gallbladder bile composition that increase the likelihood of cholesterol and calcium bilirubinate precipitation . 
a prospective longitudinal study of observation versus surgical intervention in the management of necrotizing pancreatitis . pancreatic necrosis is now recognized as a principal determinant of survival in acute pancreatitis . however , it is currently unknown how frequently pancreatic necrosis develops in acute pancreatitis , how often pancreatic necrosis becomes secondarily infected , and whether sterile pancreatic necrosis represents an indication for surgery or can be treated by conservative means . in 194 patients with unequivocal acute pancreatitis , pancreatic necrosis developed in 38 ( 20 % ) , as documented by dynamic pancreatography , and was confirmed by histologic diagnosis at surgery in 28 . all patients were prospectively treated by medical means . patients with pancreatic necrosis who remained persistently febrile underwent fine needle aspiration for bacterial culture . infected pancreatic necrosis was demonstrated in 27 of the 38 patients ( 71 % ) with pancreatic necrosis and was treated by open drainage , yielding a mortality rate of 15 % . all 11 patients with demonstrated sterile pancreatic necrosis , including 6 with pulmonary and renal insufficiency , were successfully treated without surgery . pancreatic necrosis occurs in approximately 20 % of patients with acute pancreatitis and is necessary for the development of secondary pancreatic infection . however , pancreatic necrosis by itself , even when accompanied by organ failure , is not an absolute indication for surgery . a trial of medical treatment for all patients with sterile pancreatic necrosis is in order . 
proximal gastric vagotomy in the emergency treatment of bleeding duodenal ulcer . proximal gastric vagotomy for bleeding duodenal ulcer was performed in 52 low-risk patients between 1973 and 1986 . duodenotomy without violation of the pylorus was done in all patients to allow inspection and control of the bleeding site . the median duration of operation was 3 hours and 20 minutes , although 25 % of the procedures required 4 or more hours . there was no postoperative mortality and no early reoperations . among the six patients with postoperative complications , one rebled from the ulcer and two developed prolonged gastric atony . at the time of follow-up ( median , 2.9 years ) , 48 of the patients were alive and 4 had died of non-ulcer causes . no patient had significant postvagotomy sequelae . ulcer recurrence was documented in six patients , and three required reoperation . proximal gastric vagotomy is a safe , effective therapy for bleeding duodenal ulcer . because of the length of the operation , it should be restricted to low-risk patients who are hemodynamically stable at the time of operation . 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and increased risk for peptic ulcer disease in elderly persons . objective : to evaluate the relative risk for peptic ulcer disease that is associated with the use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . design : nested case-control study . setting : tennessee medicaid program . participants : medicaid enrollees 65 years of age or older were included in the study . the 1415 case patients had been hospitalized for confirmed peptic ulcer disease at some point from 1984 through 1986 . the 7063 control persons represented a stratified random sample of other medicaid enrollees . measurements and main results : the estimated relative risk for the development of peptic ulcer disease among current users of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , compared with that among nonusers , was 4.1 ( 95 % ci , 3.5 to 4.7 ) . for current users , the risk increased with increasing dose , from a relative risk of 2.8 ( ci , 1.8 to 4.3 ) for the lowest to a relative risk of 8.0 ( ci , 4.4 to 14.8 ) for the highest dose category . the risk was greatest in the first month of use ( relative risk , 7.2 ; ci , 4.9 to 10.5 ) . if the association is fully causal , 29 % of peptic ulcers in the study sample resulted from the use of these drugs , and the excess risk associated with such use was 17.4 hospitalizations for ulcer disease per 1000 person-years of exposure . conclusions : these data support other findings indicating that a clinically significant risk for serious ulcer disease is associated with the use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . the data show that this risk increases with dose and recency of use and that use of these drugs may be responsible for a large proportion of peptic ulcer disease among elderly persons . 
the munich gallbladder lithotripsy study . results of the first 5 years with 711 patients . objective : to evaluate the long-term results of three types of shock wave treatment in patients with radiolucent gallbladder stones . design : cohort study . setting : single-center trial . patients : of 5824 patients with gallstones , 19 % were eligible ; 711 patients were treated . interventions : patients received extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy as well as adjuvant therapy with bile acids . results : lithotripsy was done in three ways , using a water-tank lithotriptor ( group a ) , a water-cushion lithotriptor at low energy levels ( group b ) , and a water-cushion lithotriptor at high energy levels ( group c ) . the rate of complete fragment clearance 9 to 12 months after lithotripsy was done differed significantly among the three groups : among patients with single stones of 20 mm or less in diameter , the rate of fragment clearance for group a was 76 % ; for group b , it was 60 % ; and for group c , it was 83 % ( p = 0.03 ) . among patients with single stones of 21 to 30 mm , the rate of fragment clearance for group a was 63 % ; for group b , it was 32 % ; and for group c , it was 58 % ( p less than 0.005 ) . among patients with two or three stones , the rate of fragment clearance for group a was 38 % ; for group b , it was 16 % ; and for group c , it was 46 % ( p = 0.01 ) . patients with fragments of 3 mm or less 24 hours after lithotripsy was done showed a higher probability of fragment disappearance than did those with larger fragments ( p less than 0.001 ) . the clearance rate was higher in patients who were compliant than in those who were noncompliant with bile acid therapy ( p less than 0.001 ) . adverse effects included liver hematoma in 1 patients , biliary pain attacks in 253 patients ( 36 % ) , mild biliary pancreatitis in 13 patients ( 2 % ) , and cholestasis in 7 patients ( 1 % ) . elective cholecystectomy was done in 16 patients ( 2 % ) , and endoscopic sphincterotomy was done in 4 patients ( 1 % ) . conclusions : the rate of complete disappearance of stones after shock wave therapy depends on the size and the number of the initial stones , the diameter of the largest fragment , and the mode of shock wave treatment . adjuvant therapy with bile acids appears to be important for complete fragment clearance . 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and peptic ulcer disease . evidence has accumulated that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) cause clinically important gastroduodenal ulcers . the pathogenesis , which involves the impairment of mucosal resistance to injury in an acid-peptic environment , is multifactorial and controversial . ulcers caused by nsaids can occur either in mucosa inflamed because of infection with helicobacter pylori or in histologically normal mucosa . the use of these drugs has been linked to an unexpectedly high incidence of ulcer complications , and a history of peptic ulcer disease is common in such cases . nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs thus appear both to exacerbate an underlying peptic diathesis and to cause de novo ulcers . the association between the use of these drugs and ulcer complications is supported by ulcer prevalence data from cross-sectional studies , and by data from case-controlled and cohort studies , and from randomized , experimental trials . drug-induced gastric ulcers have been prevented by misoprostol , but not by h2 blocker therapy . several therapies have been reported to promote ulcer healing despite continued use of nsaids , but adequate controlled trials have not been done . small gastric and duodenal ulcers readily heal , whereas larger gastric ulcers require vigorous and prolonged therapy . the relative efficacies of various therapies in preventing ulcers , healing ulcers , or preventing complications remain to be established . 
microbiological studies of the enterocolitis of hirschsprung 's disease . the results of a prospective study of 20 cases of newly diagnosed hirschsprung 's disease ( nine of whom developed enterocolitis ) and 10 normal controls showed no variations in the bacterial flora ( including clostridium difficile ) in the stools of the groups studied . viral studies showed that rotavirus was present in the stools of seven of the nine cases of enterocolitis during the episode . we suggest that hirschsprung 's enterocolitis may have a complex infective aetiology and that rotavirus plays a part . 
psychological characteristics of children with shwachman syndrome . twelve children and young adults with shwachman syndrome were compared with their unaffected siblings and with controls suffering from cystic fibrosis in terms of intellectual ability , motor skills , and behaviour . there were highly significant differences in intelligence quotient between those with shwachman syndrome and the other two groups . four of the index subjects but none of the control subjects were below the normal range . the differences between groups on other tests of cognitive and motor skills were not significant , though those with shwachman syndrome tended to have the lowest scores . there was no evidence that those with shwachman syndrome had more behavioural difficulties than the control subjects . we suggest that the intellectual difficulties of patients with shwachman syndrome may be of neurological rather than social origin and that they may originate before birth . 
fatal embolization of intestinal contents through a duodenocaval fistula . embolization of intestinal contents to the lung is an exceedingly rare event , which to our knowledge , has never been reported as a cause of death . equally rare is duodenocaval fistula resulting from a penetrating duodenal peptic ulcer . we present the case of a 51-year-old man whose duodenal ulcer led to a fistulous tract with the inferior vena cava and subsequently to progressive pulmonary embolization of intestinal contents , ultimately resulting in death from respiratory failure . 
early antibiotic treatment of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections : clinical and serological study . objective -- to find out whether a 10-14 days ' course of antibiotics early in the course of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections could reduce the severity and duration of the disease and whether the antibody response in patients with reactive arthritis associated with yersinia infection differed between those treated and those not treated with the antibiotics . design -- prospective multicentre trial in which patients were randomised to treatment or no treatment with antibiotics . patients were seen at three and six weeks and three , six , nine , 12 , and 18 months after their first visit . setting -- departments of infectious diseases in three hospitals in linkoping , malmo , and stockholm , sweden . patients -- 40 consecutive patients who had had symptoms of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection for less than four weeks . interventions -- 20 patients were allocated to treatment with antibiotics and 20 patients did not receive antibiotics . all patients received non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , and four also received intra-articular steroid injections after at least six weeks ' observation . main outcome measures -- arthritic symptoms assessed clinically and by using ritchies ' index ; blood measurements reflecting inflammatory activity ; serum igg , igm , and iga antibody titres ; hla tissue type . results -- no difference was observed concerning duration of arthritis , grade of inflammation , and number of joints affected between patients treated and those not treated with antibiotics . furthermore , there was no significant difference between the two groups in erythrocyte sedimentation rate and haptoglobin , igg , and iga concentrations . all values had returned to normal within three months . no patient developed chronic arthritis , but sustained slight arthralgia occurred in three patients . the hla-b27 antigen was found in 23 ( 58 % ) of the patients , and its presence did not affect clinical outcome . the igg , igm , and iga antibody responses were similar in patients treated with antibiotics and those not treated . conclusion -- short term antibiotic treatment has no beneficial effect on the clinical outcome of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection . 
stationary vs. mapping manometry in evaluating dysphagia . two methods are used to assess esophageal motility . the mapping technique uses catheter withdrawal at 1 cm steps until the entire esophagus is evaluated . a simpler method is commonly used that involves keeping the catheter stationary for the entire evaluation . we compared these 2 techniques in 30 patients referred for the evaluation of dysphagia . emphasis was placed on the distal 10 cm of the esophagus because this is the primary location of esophageal motility disorders . there was excellent correlation between techniques for mean distal amplitude ( r = 0.945 ) , mean distal duration ( r = 0.942 ) , and percentage of non-peristaltic contractions ( r = 0.967 ) . the overall manometry diagnosis was similar by both methods in 27 ( 90 % ) patients . three patients had different manometry diagnoses resulting from use of the two techniques . however , the change in diagnosis was only clinically important in one patient in whom the mapping technique identified a segmental motility disorder that had been missed by the stationary technique . stationary manometry had a 94 % sensitivity and 93 % specificity rate for identifying motility disorders compared to mapping manometry . we conclude that stationary manometry is a simple and accurate method for evaluating esophageal pressures and distal disorders . only those patients with normal results of stationary studies may benefit by further mapping to identify rare segmental motility disorders . 
radiographic techniques and efficacy in evaluating esophageal dysphagia . the radiographic examination of the esophagus to determine structural and/or functional causes of dysphagia is best performed with multiple techniques . these include full-column studies to produce distended films with or without the use of a solid bolus , mucosal relief films to identify mucosal defects such as esophagitis or the presence of varices , double-contrast films , and motion recording ( fluoroscopy ) . the efficacy of each technique depends on the quality of the study and the specific disorder to be detected . esophageal lesions producing dysphagia are classified into extrinsic structural lesions , intrinsic structural lesions , and esophageal motility disorders . radiographic studies are the preferred screening techniques for patients with dysphagia . although not as sensitive for the evaluation of mucosal lesions , radiographic studies are superior to endoscopy for the detection of abnormal motility , esophageal rings , and strictures . 
scleroderma esophagus . scleroderma ( systemic sclerosis ) is a connective tissue disorder characterized by thickening and fibrosis of the skin and visceral involvement that may include the heart , lungs , kidneys , and gastrointestinal tract . at least 40-50 % of patients with scleroderma experience esophageal symptoms such as heartburn and dysphagia , while up to 90 % of patients have esophageal dysfunction on objective testing at some point in their disease . the disease results in smooth muscle dysfunction that causes esophageal aperistalsis and reduced lower esophageal sphincter pressures . gastroesophageal reflux with poor acid clearance results with an increased incidence of complications such as peptic stricture and barrett 's esophagus . aggressive medical therapy is necessary to prevent these and other complications of gastroesophageal reflux . 
esophageal motility , heartburn , and gastroesophageal reflux : variations in clinical presentation of esophageal dysphagia . dysphagia is a potentially important symptom , often leading to the finding of an anatomical or motility disorder of the esophagus . dysphagia and heartburn represent two of the most common symptoms associated with esophageal motility disorders . to explore the relationship of symptomatic esophageal dysphagia and heartburn and their association with primary esophageal motor disorders , we have performed a retrospective assessment of 1035 patient evaluations performed at our gastrointestinal laboratory . a clear statistical association of symptomatic dysphagia and heartburn was established ; however , no pattern diagnostic of a specific motility disorder was discernible . a sizable fraction of our patient population with dysphagia demonstrated normal esophageal motility . a significant portion of dyspeptic patients exhibited both normal motility and acid exposure . the differences observed between the incidence of subjective symptoms and objective dysfunction may be explained in part by an altered or increased esophageal sensitivity of these patients . 
symptoms of achalasia in young women mistaken as indicating primary anorexia nervosa . the case of a young women with dysphagia , regurgitation , and weight loss , who was diagnosed as having anorexia nervosa but in whom reevaluation showed that achalasia was causing the symptoms , is presented together with related observations . misinterpretation of esophageal symptoms may occur not only as a consequence of inadequate history taking and of being biased by a patient 's emaciation , age , and gender , which leads to view certain aspects of the patient 's history and behavior as suggesting a pathologic attitude towards eating and body weight , but also as a consequence of a misinterpretation of the symptoms as indicative of an eating disorder by the patients themselves . in some cases a disordered attitude toward eating and body weight may develop together or coexist with achalasia . the clinical evaluation of patients with symptoms suggestive of anorexia nervosa but also of bulimia nervosa should include the taking of a thorough history regarding swallowing and vomiting in order to recognize a possible esophageal motor disorder . 
palliation of malignant esophageal obstruction . progressive dysphagia is common in patients with advanced esophageal carcinoma . multiple nonsurgical techniques are available to provide palliation and improved nutrition . simple dilatation is the oldest technique and newer methods may offer greater efficacy . laser therapy now provides an excellent opportunity to treat obstructing tumors . placement of an esophageal prosthesis may become particularly useful when dilatation must be performed too frequently or has become ineffective or in the patient with an esophageal-pulmonary fistula . newer techniques including bicap tumor probe , intracavitary radiotherapy , or absolute alcohol injection offer promise . this review discusses the advantages and disadvantages of these different palliative techniques for patients with the extremely poor prognosis associated with esophageal cancer . 
esophageal perforation during pneumatic dilatation for achalasia : a possible association with malnutrition . pneumatic balloon dilatation of the lower esophageal sphincter is commonly utilized as primary therapy for achalasia . perforation related to pneumatic dilatation is uncommon ( 2-6 % ) but may result in severe morbidity . factors associated with risk of perforation are not well defined . we noted perforation in three patients undergoing forceful balloon dilatation . all these patients had clinical evidence of significant malnutrition ( recent marked weight loss and severe hypoalbuminemia ) . malnutrition may be a causal factor for perforation in patients with achalasia undergoing dilatation . 
prevalence of helicobacter pylori in specific forms of gastritis . further evidence supporting a pathogenic role for h. pylori in chronic nonspecific gastritis . helicobacter pylori colonization of the gastric mucosa is strongly associated with chronic nonspecific gastritis ; moreover , there is evidence to suggest that h. pylori may cause this form of gastritis . however , there is little or no information on the prevalence of h. pylori in specific forms of gastritis . our hypothesis was that if h. pylori was pathogenic in chronic nonspecific gastritis , organisms would be found frequently in this type of gastritis but infrequently in specific forms of gastritis . prevalence rates of h. pylori were determined independently in patients with eosinophilic and crohn 's gastritis , menetrier 's disease , and chronic nonspecific gastritis . the prevalence of h. pylori in patients with chronic nonspecific gastritis was 71 % , whereas the organism was not identified in patients with any form of specific gastritis . this finding further supports the accumulating evidence that h. pylori is a primary pathogenic factor in chronic nonspecific gastritis . 
modulation of mediator release from human intestinal mast cells by sulfasalazine and 5-aminosalicylic acid . intestinal mast cells are thought to contribute to the mucosal inflammation in ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease through release of inflammatory mediators . since sulfasalazine and its metabolite 5-aminosalicylic acid are effective therapeutic agents in inflammatory bowel disease and have been shown to inhibit generation of inflammatory products in other cells , we examined the effect of these agents in vitro on human intestinal mast cell mediator release . sulfasalazine ( 5 x 10 ( -4 ) -10 ( -3 ) m ) was found to significantly enhance goat anti-human ige-induced histamine release from intestinal mast cells , which is the same response as seen in human blood basophils , whereas its metabolite 5-aminosalicylic acid was an effective inhibitor of stimulated histamine release in both mast cells and basophils . 5-aminosalicylic acid also inhibited production of prostaglandin d2 by the stimulated intestinal mast cells . sulfasalazine alone , without immunologic stimulation , did not induce histamine release from mast cells or basophils , but the enhancement of ongoing mast cell activation by sulfasalazine may explain some cases of adverse reactions to the drug . the inhibition of mast cell histamine release and prostaglandin generation by 5-aminosalicylic acid demonstrates a potential therapeutic modality of this agent . 
rectal irrigation with short-chain fatty acids for distal ulcerative colitis . preliminary report . colon cells from patients with ulcerative colitis utilize short-chain fatty acids inefficiently and may be exposed to decreased concentrations of these compounds . to test whether irrigation of the inflamed mucosa with short-chain fatty acids is useful , we conducted a six-week preliminary trial in 12 patients with distal colitis . each patient used twice daily rectal irrigations with 100 ml of a solution containing acetate ( 80 mm ) , propionate ( 30 mm ) , and butyrate ( 40 mm ) . two patients stopped at three weeks , one because of no improvement and the other because of complete resolution of symptoms . of the 10 who completed the trial , nine were judged to be at least much improved and showed a change in a mean disease activity index score from 7.9 + / - 0.3 ( se ) to 1.8 + / - 0.6 ( se ) ( p less than or equal to 0.002 ) and in a mucosal histology score from 7.7 + / - 0.7 ( se ) to 2.6 + / - 0.7 ( se ) ( p less than or equal to 0.002 ) . thus , ulcerative colitis patients appear to benefit from increased contact with or higher than usual levels of these critical energy substrates . 
gallstone dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether in 120 patients -- efficacy and safety . of 612 patients with cholesterol gallbladder stones , 120 were eligible for percutaneous transhepatic litholysis with methyl tert-butyl ether ( mtbe ) . puncture of the gallbladder was successful in 117/120 ( 97.5 % ) . in 113/117 ( 96.6 % ) the stones dissolved . with solitary stones , treatment lasted for an average of 4 hr , with multiple stones 10 hr . mean hospitalization was 3.6 days . in 3/117 ( 2.6 % ) patients a bile leakage developed ; 33 % reported mild complaints . after the end of treatment 34 % had some residue in the gallbladder ; two of these patients developed recurrent stones . mtbe is exhaled , is distributed in fatty tissue , and is excreted renally together with its metabolite tert-butanol . methanol was found only in traces . gallbladder histology of six patients showed chronic cholecystitis . since these findings were independent of treatment time and the interval between treatment end and operation , they are most consistent with stone-related changes rather than caused by mtbe . 
medical dissolution of gallstones . clinical experience of d-limonene as a simple , safe , and effective solvent . retained gallstones in the bile ducts account for 60-70 % of all the cases of postcholecystectomy syndromes . a solvent d-limonene preparation was injected directly to the biliary system of 200 patients to dissolve or disintegrate the retained gallstones . the outcomes were : retained stones completely disappeared in 96 cases ( 48 % ) ; partial dissolution in 29 ( 14.5 % ) ; chelating agent was also used with partial dissolution in 16 ( 8 % ) ; ineffective in 59 ( 24.5 % ) . to make this method more effective , several guidelines should be observed including an in vitro trial dissolution test . cautious observation for possible side effects and frequent hepatic and pancreatic function tests during the treatment with this preparation also should be performed . 
evaluation of portal-systemic shunting in rats from mesenteric and splenic beds . in rats with partial portal vein ligation , 95 + / - 0.9 % of the splenic blood flow is shunted from the portal to the systemic circulation when an intrasplenic injection of microspheres is used to determine the degree of shunting . despite this magnitude of portal-systemic shunting , several biochemical and endocrine consequences of portal-systemic shunting occur at levels below what is expected for the degree of shunting found . in an effort to resolve these discordant findings , shunting from both the splenic and the mesenteric bed was studied in anesthetized portal hypertensive rats with various degrees and/or duration of portal vein stenosis . the shunting from the mesenteric bed averaged 66.7 + / - 29.9 % ( range 5.1-99 .1 % ) and was influenced both by the degree and duration of portal vein stenosis . in contrast , shunting from the splenic bed averaged 97.3 + / - 4.0 % ( range 79-99 .9 % ) and demonstrated no variation between groups determined by the degree of portal vein stenosis . the shunting from the splenic bed was consistently greater than that found from the mesenteric bed . mesenteric but not splenic shunting correlated with serum bile acid levels . mesenteric shunting was related inversely to the weight-adjusted liver mass and to serum testosterone levels . based upon these data obtained in portal hypertensive rats , it is concluded that splenic injections of microspheres overestimate portal-systemic shunting . in contrast , mesenteric injections of microspheres yield values for shunting that correlate well with independently determined biochemical and endocrine consequences of shunting . these observations support the validity of the mesenteric shunting measurements obtained . 
treatment of pruritus of primary biliary cirrhosis with rifampin . pruritus can be a debilitating symptom in patients with chronic cholestasis . based on previous reports of its efficacy , we evaluated the impact of rifampin on the pruritus associated with primary biliary cirrhosis . fourteen patients were included in a randomized , crossover study . after a 15-day washout period , subjects were followed for three weeks . during the first and third week , patients received 600 mg of rifampin or placebo ; no treatment was administered during the second week . pruritus was subjectively scored on a scale from 0 to 100 . with rifampin , pruritus disappeared in 11 patients and partially improved in three ; with placebo , only two had a partial response ( p less than 0.001 ) . six patients with a prior poor or no response to cholestyramine improved with rifampin . no changes in biochemical tests or side effects were observed during this period . we conclude that short-term administration of rifampin relieves pruritus in primary biliary cirrhosis . when administered over a period of eight months in an open study , the relief of pruritus was maintained , while one individual developed an allergic reaction . rifampin appears to be a safe drug in the management of the pruritus of primary biliary cirrhosis . 
achalasia in the elderly . effects of aging on clinical presentation and outcome . clinical and manometric data from 13 elderly subjects with idiopathic achalasia ( mean age 79 + / - 2 years ) were compared with findings from younger subjects with the same disease ( n = 79 ) to see if aging altered the presentation and outcome of this motor disorder . fewer elderly subjects complained of chest pain ( 27 % vs 53 % ) , and the pain was significantly less severe ( p less than 0.01 ) . other presenting features ( including sex , duration of symptoms , and presence and severity of dysphagia ) did not differ between the groups . across all patients , age weakly and inversely correlated with residual postdeglutitive lower esophageal sphincter ; ( les ) pressure ( r = -0.34 ) , and residual pressure was significantly lower in the older subjects ( 8.0 + / - 1.3 mm hg vs. 11.9 + / - 0.8 mm hg ; p = 0.02 ) . no differences in basal les pressure or esophageal-body contraction amplitudes were present between the groups . initial success with pneumatic dilation was similar in the two subject groups , but the number of older subjects available for analysis was too small to draw strong conclusions . these results indicate that aging decreases the elevation of les residual pressure that occurs with achalasia . as elderly achalasia patients also present with less chest pain , the findings may be interrelated . 
prospective study on prevalence of esophageal chest pain in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia . the prevalence of esophageal chest pain was studied prospectively in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia . a group of 248 consecutive patients without previously documented heart disease was admitted for elective diagnostic coronary angiography . the clinical history classified 185 patients as having anginal pain and the coronary angiogram was normal in 48 of them . in 37 of these 48 patients full esophageal testing was performed including 24-hr intraesophageal ph and pressure recordings with indication of chest pain episodes as well as a number of esophageal provocation tests , ie , acid perfusion , edrophonium stimulation , balloon distension , and ergonovine stimulation , all performed under continuous esophageal manometric and electrocardiographic monitoring . in 19 of these 37 patients , the familiar chest pain could be reproduced by esophageal provocative testing without ischemic st-t segment alterations ; six of these 19 patients had also a positive 24-hr ph and pressure recording . these data strongly suggest an esophageal origin of chest pain in half the patients with typical angina and a normal coronary angiogram . 
ischemic colitis in a crack abuser . we report a case of acute colitis temporally associated with smoking crack . colonoscopy revealed a patchy left-sided hemorrhagic inflammation from the rectosigmoid colon to the splenic flexure . biopsy specimens were consistent with resolving ischemic colitis . this entity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute bloody diarrhea in recreational drug users . 
islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting as bleeding from isolated gastric varices . report of a case and review of the literature . gastrointestinal hemorrhage from left-sided portal hypertension and gastric varices is an unusual presentation for islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas . islet cell tumors of the pancreas themselves are rare . they present in a variety of ways . those that elaborate functional hormones cause specific neuroendocrine syndromes . nonfunctional tumors characteristically present later with symptoms of metastatic disease or as a result of local enlargement . we present a case of islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding from gastric varices and review the literature for this rare presentation . we emphasize the importance of a careful initial diagnostic work-up that may enable curative surgery . 
pancreatic ascites presenting in infancy , with review of the literature . we report a 4-month-old boy with massive ascites in whom a diagnosis of pancreatitis was made on a raised ascitic amylase level after two inconclusive laparotomies . he developed a pseudocyst which was managed with repeated percutaneous needle aspirations , nutrition being maintained intravenously . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) demonstrated a congenital intra-pancreatic cyst . he thrived after operation drainage for recurrent pseudocyst , but repeat ercp shows that the cyst in the head of the pancreas remains . pancreatic ascites is rare in children and diagnosis is frequently delayed . a third of reported cases in childhood present in the first year of life . a search for the underlying cause should include an ercp to demonstrate abnormalities of the pancreaticobiliary ducts . 
levels of the human hepatocyte growth factor in serum of patients with various liver diseases determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . we have found a hepatotrophic factor in plasma or sera of patients with fulminant hepatic failure and have purified human hepatocyte growth factor from plasma of these patients . in this study we developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with high specificity and sensitivity for human hepatocyte growth factor in human serum . this assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor is a sandwich method consisting of three steps . the standard curve for human hepatocyte growth factor appeared to be linear in the range of 0.20 to 12.50 ng purified human hepatocyte growth factor/ml ( 2.35 to 147 pmol/l ) . the assay took about 4 hr . serum human hepatocyte growth factor values in patients with fulminant hepatic failure measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed a strong positive correlation with that by bioassay using rat hepatocytes in primary culture . the mean value of serum human hepatocyte growth factor for 30 normal subjects was 0.24 + / - 0.12 ( s.d. ) ng/ml ; that for 23 patients with fulminant hepatic failure was 8.06 + / - 1.76 ( s.e.m. ) ng/ml - greater than 30 times greater than the mean value for normal subjects . serum human hepatocyte growth factor levels in patients with acute hepatitis , chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis were found to be slightly higher than those in normal subjects , but only the increase in serum human hepatocyte growth factor of acute hepatitis patients was statistically significant . the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor should prove useful for serum human hepatocyte growth factor level measurement in patients with various liver diseases . 
distribution of cholesterol between vesicles and micelles in human gallbladder bile : influence of treatment with chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid . the present study aimed at determining the relative distribution of cholesterol between the vesicular and micellar phases in gallbladder bile of gallstone patients ( n = 23 ) and gallstone-free subjects ( n = 7 ) . nine of the gallstone patients were treated with chenodeoxycholic acid and seven were treated with ursodeoxycholic acid , 15 mg/kg/day , for 3 wk before cholecystectomy . the vesicular and micellar fractions in bile were separated by sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation , and a clear separation between the two phases was obtained . the vesicles were further identified by quasielastic light scattering spectroscopy and appeared to be of a uniform size with a mean hydrodynamic radius of 760 a. the proportion of cholesterol in the vesicular fraction was significantly higher in the untreated gallstone group ( 40 % + / - 4 % ) compared with the gallstone-free ( 28 % + / - 3 % ) , ursodeoxycholic acid ( 28 % + / - 3 % ) and chenodeoxycholic acid ( 18 % + / - 4 % ) groups . despite a low cholesterol saturation of bile in the latter three groups ( 88 % + / - 12 % , 51 % + / - 9 % and 65 % + / - 5 % , respectively ) , a considerable part of the biliary cholesterol was carried in the vesicular fraction . the cholesterol/phospholipid ratio in the vesicular fraction averaged between 0.49 and 0.58 in the gallstone , gallstone-free and chenodeoxycholic acid groups , whereas the ursodeoxycholic acid group had a significantly lower ratio of 0.24 . the nucleation time of bile from the gallstone group was short ( 2 + / - 1 days ) compared with the gallstone-free , chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid groups ( 23 + / - 3 , 24 + / - 6 and 14 + / - 3 days , respectively . 
selective dopamine da1 stimulation with fenoldopam in cirrhotic patients with ascites : a systemic , splanchnic and renal hemodynamic study . we studied the effects of fenoldopam , a selective dopamine da1 agonist on systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics , renal blood flow and sodium excretion in 12 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and ascites . hepatic , azygos and renal veins were catheterized before and after intravenous administration of fenoldopam , 0.05 micrograms/kg/min for 1 hr and increased to 0.1 micrograms/kg/min for another hour . mean arterial pressure progressively decreased ( from 83 + / - 7 to a minimum of 77 + / - 8 mm hg 100 min after starting the infusion ) but returned to baseline level at 120 min . plasma norepinephrine and renin activity increased ( respectively from 567 + / - 297 to 919 + / - 375 pg/ml , p less than 0.05 , and from 17 + / - 14 to 23 + / - 15 ng/ml/hr , p less than 0.05 ) . renal blood flow , urine output or sodium excretion did not change . sodium output decreased at 1 hr from 6.9 mumol/min to 4.0 mumol/min , p less than 0.05 . both hepatic venous pressure gradient and azygos blood flow significantly increased by 21 % . we conclude that the acute administration of fenoldopam did not improve renal hemodynamics or function in patients with cirrhosis and ascites . in addition , dopamine da1 agonism caused further increases in norepinephrine concentration and plasma renin activity . portal pressure also increased , probably because of an increase in mesenteric blood flow . these results question the renal benefit and raise concern about the use of dopamine agonists in patients with cirrhosis and ascites . 
prophylactic sclerotherapy for esophageal varices : long-term results of a single-center trial . survival after prophylactic sclerotherapy was assessed in a single-center study involving 99 cirrhotic ( 41 alcoholic ) patients enrolled over 8-yr . the wedged hepatic vein pressure gradient was measured ; those with pressure greater than or equal to 12 mm hg were randomized to receive sclerotherapy or no treatment . the rest were not randomized . patients in all three groups who bled were treated with emergency endoscopy and sclerotherapy . stratification according to presence of ascites was also undertaken . median follow-up was 61 mo ( range = 14 to 107 mo ) . survival among unrandomized patients was significantly longer than among randomized patients ( p less than 0.006 ) , but there was no significant difference between those treated by sclerotherapy and the controls ( p = 0.27 ) . alcoholic cirrhotic patients undergoing sclerotherapy had better 2-yr survival than did the controls ( 80 % vs. 43 % ; p = 0.09 ) , but this benefit was not sustained at 5 yr . survival in the nonalcoholic patient groups was identical . only 10 of 50 deaths were caused by variceal bleeding . forty-eight percent of patients with large varices bled , compared with 20 % of patients with small varices . wedged hepatic vein pressure less than 12 mm hg accurately identified alcoholic patients at low risk of variceal bleeding but not nonalcoholic patients . only four episodes of variceal bleeding were attributable to elective sclerotherapy . we conclude that in our population , prophylactic sclerotherapy alone does not improve survival . the discrepancy in survival between alcoholic and nonalcoholic cirrhotic patients suggests that factors other than variceal hemorrhage may be responsible for the difference . 
dual association of hla dr2 and dr3 with primary sclerosing cholangitis . human leukocyte antigen typing was performed in 81 patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis to investigate reported associations between human leukocyte antigen type and this disease . the results showed a significant increase in the frequency of the antigens b8 and dr3 compared with controls ( 53 % vs. 23 % , p less than 0.0005 , and 56 % vs. 21 % , p less than 0.0005 ) . this was caused by a significant rise in the frequency of the human leukocyte antigen a1 b8 dr3 haplotype ( 32 of 81 patients , 40 % vs. 12 of 100 patients , 12 % , p less than 0.0005 ) . by contrast , a significant reduction was seen in the frequency of the antigens b44 and dr4 ( 12 % vs. 31 % , p less than 0.005 , and 12 % vs. 34 % , p less than 0.001 , pc less than 0.011 ) because of the complete absence of the b44 dr4 haplotype in the patient group ( p = 0.027 , fisher 's exact test ) . when all the dr3-positive individuals ( including the dr2/dr3 heterozygotes ) were eliminated , a significant secondary association with dr2 was noted , 25 ( 69 % ) of 36 remaining patients being dr2-positive compared with 27 ( 34 % ) of 79 dr3 negative controls ( p less than 0.0005 , pc less than 0.006 ) . only 9 % of the patients were dr2-positive and dr3-positive . kaplan-meier analysis demonstrated that survival was not influenced by the presence of either haplotype nor by the individual antigens . patients who were dr3-positive were first seen at a significantly younger age than those who were dr2-positive ( mean ages = 33 yr and 44 yr , respectively , p less than 0.002 , student 's t test ) . 
significance of natural polymerized albumin and its receptor in hepatitis b infection of hepatocytes . lack of information regarding the presence of native albumin polymer in serum and its structural similarity to the one produced by glutaraldehyde treatment casts doubt on the postulate that hepatitis b virus attachment to hepatocytes is mediated through polymerized albumin . we used a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with murine monoclonal antibodies raised against glutaraldehyde-polymerized albumin to detect native albumin polymer in human serum and its cross-reactivity with other albumin polymers . presence of polymerized albumin receptor on the hepg2 cell was studied by radioreceptor assay . purified hepatitis b virus and synthetic peptide analogous to part of pre-s2 sequence ( 120-145 ) were used to study polymerized albumin-dependent attachment of the virus to hepg2 cells . antibodies raised against pre-s2 peptide were used to inhibit the pre-s2 and hepatitis b virus attachment to hepg2 cells . glutaraldehyde-treated polymerized albumin was found to be immunologically cross-reactive with native albumin polymer . its levels were found to be significantly raised in sera of patients with liver diseases . polymerized albumin has specific saturable receptor on hepg2 cells with two classes of binding sites of different equilibrium dissociation constant ( kd1 = ( 16 + / - 9.6 ) pmol/l and kd2 = ( 1,019 + / - 172 ) pmol/l . albumin monomer was unable to compete for the polymerized albumin receptor sites on hepg2 cells . anti-pre-s2 antibodies inhibit hepatitis b virus and pre-s2 binding to hepatocyte by 40 % and 70 % , respectively . added extraneous polymerized albumin and the antibody against it did not interfere with virus attachment to hepg2 cells . 
significance of anti-hbx antibodies in hepatitis b virus infection . serological responses to hepatitis b virus-x determinants have been noted in human sera , but conflicting findings concerning the correlation of anti-hbx antibodies with different stages of hepatitis b virus infection or pathological sequelae have been reported . using an adenovirus-based eukaryotic vector , the 17 kd x protein was efficiently expressed in 293 cells . cellular extracts containing the eukaryotic x protein have been used to screen for anti-hbx antibodies by immunoblot analysis in a large panel of sera from patients affected by hepatitis b virus chronic hepatitis , hepatocellular carcinoma and acute viral hepatitis . sera from 32 of 171 ( 19 % ) chronic hepatitis b virus patients were positive for anti-hbx antibodies . only one of thirty-two ( 3 % ) hbsag-negative , anti-hbs/anti-hbc-positive chronic hepatitis serum was anti-hbx positive . very few sera from primary hepatocellular carcinoma patients showed positivity for anti-hbx ( 8 of 149 or 5 % ) . anti-hbx were also detected in 8 of 48 ( 17 % ) acute viral hepatitis patients . in the four cases that were followed up weekly , anti-hbx antibodies appeared 3 to 4 wk after the onset of the clinical signs . to compare the x protein expressed in eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells as a substrate for anti-hbx antibody detection , 171 sera were screened with hbx fusion proteins expressed in escherichia coli . the prokaryotic cell extract test seems to be more sensitive . during the chronic phase of hepatitis b virus infection , the presence of anti-hbx antibodies detected with the eukaryotic cell extract correlates with the presence of well-established markers of ongoing viral replication : serum hepatitis b virus-dna ( p less than 0.001 ) and intrahepatic hbcag expression ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
hepatic histological findings after transplantation for chronic hepatitis b virus infection , including a unique pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis . long-term follow-up of 27 patients with hepatitis b virus-related chronic liver disease treated by transplantation showed that 23 had hepatitis b virus recurrence . in 13 patients late changes in the grafts were similar to those described in other series : minor abnormalities in five cases , chronic active hepatitis in five cases and non-hepatitis b virus-related graft dysfunction in three cases . three patients had incomplete histological follow-up . analysis of the histological changes and viral antigen expression in six cases revealed a distinct and novel pattern termed fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis . development of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis was associated with rapidly progressive graft dysfunction . it is postulated that this pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis develops because of a high cytoplasmic expression of viral antigens , including hbsag . the remaining case had some features of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis . the main histological features of this unique syndrome include thin , perisinusoidal bands of fibrosis extending from portal tracts to surround plates of ductular-type epithelium ; prominent cholestasis ; ground-glass transformation ; and ballooning of hepatocytes with cell loss and mild mixed inflammatory reaction . 
assay of hepatitis b virus dna by polymerase chain reaction and its relationship to pre-s - and s-encoded viral surface antigens . the polymerase chain reaction was evaluated as a diagnostic tool in 72 chronic hepatitis b virus carriers . hepatitis b virus dna was detectable in the serum of hbsag-positive virus carriers using aliquots as small as 100 al . the detection limit for cloned hepatitis b virus dna was 100 ag . primer pairs for different regions of the hbv genome resulted in different sensitivity . detection of the amplified hepatitis b virus dna by southern blotting and subsequent scintillation counting or densitometry allowed a semiquantitative assay . using several primer pairs in parallel for optimal detection , all hbeag-positive hbsag carriers , 80 % of hbe antibody-positive symptomatic hbsag carriers and 57 % of asymptomatic hbe antibody-positive hbsag carriers were found to have hepatitis b virus dna in the serum . during antiviral therapy hepatitis b virus dna disappeared by the polymerase chain reaction assay in patients who became hbeag negative , but polymerase chain reaction detected a relapse earlier than did the conventional dot blot . pre-s antigens were assayed in serum and liver samples from most chronic carriers by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and/or immunoblot . although most viremic carriers were strongly positive for pre-s1 and pre-s2 antigens , some hepatitis b virus dna-positive hbsag carriers did not have detectable pre-s antigens , and vice versa . our data show that assay of hepatitis b virus dna in the serum by polymerase chain reaction is by far more proficient than by dot blot and that it can not be replaced by serological assays of hbeag or pre-s antigen . 
antibodies in anti-hbe-positive patient sera bind to an hbe protein expressed on the cell surface of human hepatoma cells : implications for virus clearance . the relevance of the recently described membrane-bound form of the hbe protein for the antiviral immune response was examined . the data show that antibodies in anti-hbe , but not in anti-hbc-positive human sera efficiently bind to the membrane expressed hbe . no evidence was obtained that the hbc can reach the cell surface in a form that can be detected with human antibodies . the findings suggest that the decline of virus titer that is usually observed after seroconversion from hbe to anti-hbe might be the result of an antibody-mediated elimination of infected cells . 
the ver as a diagnostic marker for childhood abdominal migraine . abdominal migraine is a common childhood migraine equivalent , for which diagnostic criteria have not been defined . as in other children with migraine equivalents this leads to difficulties in diagnosis and determination of prevalence . by recording the fast wave activity ( beta rhythmn ) in the visual evoked response ( ver ) to red and white flash , the pattern stimulation , 27 out of 28 children with clinically diagnosed abdominal migraine revealed significant differences compared with normal controls , outside the attack phase . comparisons with children diagnosed as migraine with or without aura revealed , from the ver findings of higher amplitude fast wave activity and the presence of paroxysmal sharp wave activity , that abdominal migraine appears to be a specific form of childhood migraine . we found that both clinically and electrophysiologically , abdominal migraine changes with age ; older children exhibiting a shorter duration of abdominal pain during attacks , and less evidence of sharp wave activity in the ver . 
detection of hepatitis b virus dna by polymerase chain reaction in plasma of volunteer blood donors negative for hepatitis b surface antigen . plasma samples from 206 volunteer blood donors were tested for hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) dna by dot blot hybridization and polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) . all donors were negative for hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) and had normal serum alanine aminotransferase levels . none of the 206 plasma samples was positive for hbv dna by dot blot hybridization assay . however , nine samples were positive for hbv dna by pcr using two primer pairs specific for surface and core regions . nine persons received the hbv-dna-positive plasma , and one developed posttransfusion non-a , non-b hepatitis ; the others remained well 6 months later . therefore , approximately 4 % of blood donors in taiwan have low titers of hbv dna , and a more sensitive method to screen donors may be needed in the future , although the current serologic test remains the most practical at present . 
hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome -- a complication of dactinomycin therapy for wilms ' tumor : a report from the united kingdom childrens cancer study group . we have observed hepatopathy , associated with thrombocytopenia , in children receiving chemotherapy for wilms ' tumor . we have studied this hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome ( hts ) in patients enrolled in the united kingdom childrens ' cancer study group ( ukccsg ) wilms ' tumor trials ( ukw1 and ukw2 ) . at the time of this study , 501 patients had completed therapy . treatment flow sheets were examined for evidence of hepatopathy ( hepatomegaly with abnormal liver function tests ) and severe thrombocytopenia ( platelet count less than 25 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . no child who developed the syndrome had received irradiation . hts was seen in five of 355 ( 1.4 % ) of patients treated with combination chemotherapy but in none of the 146 patients treated with vincristine alone . in each instance , the onset was less than 10 weeks after diagnosis . in two children , hepatopathy was severe with jaundice , ascites , transaminases greater than 1,000 iu/l , and prolongation of prothrombin time . on average , hts lasted 12 days , and resolved with supportive treatment . after recovery , the children tolerated chemotherapy , mostly at reduced dosage , without recurrence . there was no evident long-term morbidity . dactinomycin is the probable cause of this syndrome . we conclude that the hts is a rare but important complication of dactinomycin-containing combination chemotherapy for wilms ' tumor . children developing " isolated " thrombocytopenia following dactinomycin are " at risk " of developing the full-blown syndrome and should have their treatment modified accordingly . 
comparison of shunt fraction estimation using transcolonic iodine-123-iodoamphetamine and technetium-99m-pertechnetate in a group of dogs with experimentally-induced chronic biliary cirrhosis . portosystemic shunt fraction estimation using transcolonic iodine-123-iodoamphetamine ( imp ) has been previously validated relative to portal vein macroaggregated albumin injections using an experimental model of cirrhosis . transcolonic technetium-99m-pertechnetate ( tco4 - ) has been proposed as an alternative tracer to imp to study portal circulation in cirrhotic patients . we compared shunt fraction estimates from paired transcolonic imp and tco4 - studies performed on a group of dogs before and after common bile duct ligation surgery . pertechnetate over-estimated shunt fraction in 6/7 postoperative studies relative to imp . a good correlation between the two methods was demonstrated , however , the slope of the regression line was substantially less than 1.0 with tco4 - values reaching 100 % at imp shunt values of approximately 60 % . this apparent inability to accurately assess high shunt flows may limit the quantitative aspects of tco4 - studies on patients with severe portosystemic shunting . 
bronchobiliary fistula detected by cholescintigraphy . we present a case of a bronchobiliary fistula initially detected by hepatobiliary scintigraphy . the patient developed bilioptysis 18 mo after undergoing a right hepatic lobectomy and resection of the common bile duct for cholangiocarcinoma . the procedure was complicated by the development of a subphrenic abscess that required percutaneous biliary drainage . 
quantification of hepatobiliary function as an integral part of imaging with technetium-99m-mebrofenin in health and disease . a study was undertaken to check the feasibility of measuring the hepatic extraction fraction ( hef ) and excretion t-1 / 2 values as an integral part of hepatobiliary imaging with technetium-99m-mebrofenin in health and disease . in 18 controls subjects , the hef was 100 % and the t-1 / 2 excretion mean + / - s.e. value was 15.23 + / - 1.4 min . the mean appearance times of the common bile duct ( cbd ) , gallbladder ( gb ) , and small intestine were 15.8 + / - 1.52 , 20.2 + / - 2.7 , and 23.8 + / - 3.08 min , respectively . rising serum bilirubin in patients decreased hef and increased t-1 / 2 excretion value resulting in delayed appearance of cbd , gb , and small intestine . in control subjects and patients with bilirubin less than 5 mg % , t-1 / 2 excretion values at 30 , 40 , and 50 min were similar to those values calculated using the entire 60 min of data , suggesting that the hepatic phase study time could be reduced to 30-40 min and still use the normal reference values established for 60 min . in patients with bilirubin greater than 5 mg % , the data collection duration should be continued for 60 min . 
sjogren 's syndrome and primary biliary cirrhosis : presence of autoantibodies to purified mitochondrial 2-oxo acid dehydrogenases . sjogren 's syndrome is well known for the presence of antibodies directed at specific nuclear antigens . however , the presence of antibodies reacting with a variety of other self antigens , including antimitochondrial antibodies , has often been reported although their significance is unknown . moreover , patients with sjogren 's syndrome have been occasionally reported to be concordant with primary biliary cirrhosis . to address this issue we studied in a group of 96 patients with sjogren 's syndrome the presence of autoantibodies to the dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferases of both pyruvate dehydrogenase and branch chain ketoacid dehydrogenase and to alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase ; these latter enzymes are the mitochondrial target antigens of primary biliary cirrhosis . we report that 7 of the 96 patients reacted with the mitochondrial antigens that are prominent in primary biliary cirrhosis . moreover , in those patients showing reactivity with mitochondrial antigens , the autoantibodies were directed at the same immunodominant epitopes that have been previously characterized in primary biliary cirrhosis . one of the 7 positive patients was known to have primary biliary cirrhosis . we hypothesize that the remaining 6 patients are at clinical risk for the development of primary biliary cirrhosis and/or that abnormalities would be found on liver biopsy . 
macroscopic and microscopic gut lesions in seronegative spondyloarthropathies . a retrospective study by ileocolonoscopy and multiple biopsies was performed on 96 patients with seronegative spondylarthropathy , 17 patients with osteoarthritis ( oa ) and 19 patients with chronic abdominal discomfort . under these conditions , inflammatory gut lesions were detected in 66.7 % of the patients with spondyloarthropathy , 12.5 % with oa and 15.8 % with chronic abdominal discomfort . in 10 patients treated by sulfasalazine ( salazopyrine ) , pathologic lesions disappeared simultaneously with an improvement of the rheumatic conditions . comparison between patients treated and untreated with nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs ( nsaid ) demonstrated that nsaid did not enter into the etiopathology of the intestinal lesions . our study therefore confirms the high incidence of inflammatory gut lesions among patients with spondylarthropathy which seems not to be related to nsaid therapy . 
intestinal obstruction by distension of a foley jejunostomy catheter . jejunostomies can be effective in permitting postoperative nutritional support , particularly in the patient with complicated gastrointestinal disease . in the case presented , however , distension of the foley balloon catheter , used as the jejunostomy tube , led to intestinal obstruction which was not initially detected . following radiographic identification of the problem , removal of the air from the foley balloon allowed the patient to complete his convalescence from surgery . the possibility of obstruction from the foley jejunostomy catheter should be recognized as a potential problem in the postoperative period . 
association of escherichia coli hep-2 adherence patterns with type and duration of diarrhoea . 373 ( 59 % ) out of 636 faecal specimens obtained during the first 2 years of life of 72 mexican children yielded adherent escherichia coli ( hep-2 cells ) . strains with localised adherence were significantly associated with acute non-bloody diarrhoea , whereas strains with aggregative adherence were significantly associated with persistent diarrhoea . half the strains with localised adherence were not enteropathogenic e coli serotypes nor did they hybridise with an enteropathogenic e coli adherence factor dna probe . all strains with localised adherence gave a positive fluorescent actin staining ( fas ) assay , irrespective of serotype . one-third of children colonised by aggregative strains had bloody diarrhoea . isolation of strains with diffuse adherence was not related to type or duration of diarrhoea but was generally associated with isolation of another pathogenic organism . 
syncytial giant-cell hepatitis . sporadic hepatitis with distinctive pathological features , a severe clinical course , and paramyxoviral features . background and methods . we describe a new form of hepatitis , occurring in 10 patients over a period of six years , characterized clinically by manifestations of severe hepatitis , histologically by large syncytial giant hepatocytes , and ultrastructurally by intracytoplasmic structures consistent with paramyxoviral nucleocapsids . results . the patients ranged in age from 5 months to 41 years . the tentative clinical diagnosis before biopsy was non-a , non-b hepatitis in five patients and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in the others . five patients underwent liver transplantation ; the others died . the diagnosis of syncytial giant-cell hepatitis was established pathologically . the liver cords were replaced in all 10 patients by syncytial giant cells with up to 30 nuclei . in 8 of the 10 the cytoplasm contained pleomorphic particles of 150 to 250 microns , filamentous strands , and particles of 14 to 17 nm with peripherally disposed spikes resembling paramyxoviral nucleocapsids . structures resembling degenerated forms were found in the other two patients . one of two chimpanzees injected with a liver homogenate from the index patient had an increase in the titer of paramyxoviral antibodies , probably an anamnestic reaction to previous paramyxoviral infection , suggesting that a paramyxoviral antigen but not viable virus was present in the liver homogenate . conclusions . although further virologic studies will be required for precise classification , we believe that paramyxoviruses should be considered in patients with severe sporadic hepatitis . 
spontaneous rupture of liver during pregnancy : current therapy . spontaneous hepatic rupture secondary to severe pregnancy-induced hypertension is associated with a high rate of maternal and fetal mortality . numerous types of surgical management have been described , but a uniform surgical approach has not been accepted . the purpose of this review was to examine modes of surgical therapy reported in the literature since 1976 , as well as the 11-year experience at our institution . twenty-eight cases were extracted from the literature and seven more were identified at our institution . the incidence in our population was one per 45,145 live births . among 27 cases managed by packing and drainage , an 82 % overall survival was achieved , whereas only 25 % of eight patients undergoing hepatic lobectomy survived ( p = .006 ) . hepatic hemorrhage with persistent hypotension unresponsive to blood products should be managed by evacuating the hematoma , packing the damaged liver , and draining the operative site . more aggressive surgical techniques , such as hepatic artery ligation or hepatic lobectomy , should be reserved for refractory cases . 
norwalk virus genome cloning and characterization . major epidemic outbreaks of acute gastroenteritis result from infections with norwalk or norwalk-like viruses . virus purified from stool specimens of volunteers experimentally infected with norwalk virus was used to construct recombinant complementary dna ( cdna ) and derive clones representing most of the viral genome . the specificity of the clones was shown by their hybridization with post - ( but not pre - ) infection stool samples from volunteers infected with norwalk virus and with purified norwalk virus . a correlation was observed between the appearance of hybridization signals in stool samples and clinical symptoms of acute gastroenteritis in volunteers . hybridization assays between overlapping clones , restriction enzyme analyses , and partial nucleotide sequence information of the clones indicated that norwalk virus contains a single-stranded rna genome of positive sense , with a polyadenylated tail at the 3 ' end and a size of at least 7.5 kilobases . a consensus amino acid sequence motif typical of viral rna-dependent rna polymerases was identified in one of the norwalk virus clones . the availability of norwalk-specific cdna and the new sequence information of the viral genome should permit the development of sensitive diagnostic assays and studies of the molecular biology of the virus . 
variceal rebleeding after portosystemic shunting . strategies and solutions to a vexing problem . the purpose of this review was to discuss an approach to the treatment of recurrent bleeding from esophageal or gastric varices after portosystemic shunt . from our own clinical experience , as well as that of others , it appears that re-establishment of portal decompression should offer the best chance at long-term survival . luckily , innovations in angiographic technique have allowed attainment of this goal without the inordinate risk of an operative procedure . however , not all patients ' situations will be amenable to such treatment . for some of them , operative decompression of the portal venous system can be carried out in an anatomic area previously untouched . for those patients in whom no decompression is possible , direct endoscopic treatment of the varices will offer an alternative , albeit temporizing , approach . 
repeat operation for failure of antireflux procedures . the majority of patients who receive modern antireflux operations obtain substantial long-term relief of their symptoms . about 10 % to 15 % will have persistent or recurrent problems , some severe enough to warrant reoperation for correction . with careful symptom review , barium study , endoscopy , and manometry , the mechanism of failure becomes evident , and remedial surgical treatment may proceed . the results at reoperation are not as good as those of the primary procedure , which emphasizes the need for proper diagnosis and choice of procedure and for reliable execution of technique at the initial treatment . 
reoperation for small intestinal obstruction . today , intestinal adhesions represent the most frequent etiology for complete or partial intestinal obstruction . although partial obstruction can be treated nonoperatively with a considerable likelihood of success , intestinal strangulation can not uniformly be predicted or prevented . complete intestinal obstruction is associated with a significant incidence of strangulation if not treated by a vigorous surgical approach . consequently , complete intestinal obstruction secondary to adhesions is still a surgical disease . attempts at control of the adhesion process include mechanical methods to prevent subsequent obstruction and chemical methods to prevent the adhesion process itself . the invasive mechanical methods appear dated . a variety of agents have been used either systemically or in the peritoneal cavity to prevent the establishment of intra-abdominal adhesions . agents that do not contribute to subsequent morbidity or impede the native host defense mechanisms should be utilized . high-molecular-weight dextran and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents show some promise of being both safe and effective . as is frequently the case , the bottom line in preventing and treating intra-abdominal adhesions is appropriate surgical technique . intestinal adhesions can be related clearly to leaving damaged , devitalized , or ischemic tissue in the peritoneal cavity or to excessive roughness in handling of tissues . steps such as avoidance of excessive suture material and unnecessary handling of the bowel will do much to prevent subsequent adhesion generation . likewise , the surgical lysis of intraperitoneal adhesions is frequently fraught with complications such as intra-abdominal abscess or postoperative incisional failure . this is again related to surgical technique and most directly to the use of blunt dissection to divide adhesions . knife dissection in the lysis of adhesions is recommended . this technique , combined with excellent intraoperative hemostasis , can be associated with a marked diminution in the incidence of postoperative fistulas and abscesses . 
alkaline reflux gastritis . alkaline reflux gastritis and the symptoms associated with alkaline reflux gastritis have been reported in the medical literature since shortly after billroth successfully performed his first gastrectomy in the 1880s . the disease process is produced by , or at least is associated with , the reflux of alkaline secretions into the gastric remnant . although it occurs after any procedure that ablates the pylorus including pyloroplasty , it would appear to be most common after a billroth ii gastrojejunostomy . how the alkaline secretions cause the gastritis is still controversial . clearly , the most effective therapy is to reroute the secretions from the biliary tract , pancreas , and duodenum so that they will not reflux into the gastric remnant . this is most effectively accomplished by a roux-en-y gastrojejunostomy with the afferent limb measuring at least 18 inches ( 40 cm ) . the surgeon and the patient should be aware that the construction of such a gastric outlet channel is associated with delayed gastric emptying . the etiology of this impaired emptying is also controversial . if the patient has symptoms of dumping ( either early or late ) , these symptoms may also be abated using the roux limb . at least 40 % of patients will have gastric outlet obstruction . supportive therapy is appropriate in the majority of these patients . 
reoperation for failed gastric bypass procedures for obesity . reoperation is worthwhile when there is an obvious defect in the gastric reduction operation that has failed to control weight . reoperation occasionally is necessary to correct a complication of gastric bypass . vertical banded gastroplasty is the operation of choice for reoperations , as it provides weight control while eliminating the problems of bypass . conversion of a horizontal to a vertical pouch is safe but requires careful attention to the technique to avoid injury to the other organs in the area and preservation of blood supply to the stomach . the gastrogastrostomy across the old horizontal staple line in the vertical pouch can be constructed in a way that will minimize the risk of obstruction . vertical banded gastroplasty is now the only operation in use at uihc for the treatment of obesity and is used not only as the primary operation but in all reoperations . bypass of the stomach and duodenum is not necessary for weight control and adds some risk of malabsorption and duodenal and stomal ulcer plus a lifetime of inaccessibility of the excluded areas for diagnostic and therapeutic measures . 
surgical options in postgastrectomy syndromes . the various operations performed for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease can lead to a variety of iatrogenic disorders collectively referred to as the " postgastrectomy syndromes . " although the etiology of most of these disorders remains unclear , loss of vagal innervation and bypass , ablation , or destruction of the pylorus clearly are involved in the pathogenesis of most , if not all , of these disorders . unfortunately , there often is also a poorly understood psychological element involved in the pathogenesis . of all ulcer operations , proximal gastric vagotomy results in the fewest physiologic abnormalities and the mildest postoperative symptoms . the continued popularity of this operation should effect a marked reduction in the incidence of disabling postgastrectomy syndromes . fortunately , symptoms severe enough to necessitate remedial operation are uncommon , and conservative medical management is always indicated and usually suffices . when disabling symptoms are refractory , a thorough evaluation of the patient and an accurate classification of the syndrome are essential to guarantee a satisfactory result from surgical intervention . although numerous surgical procedures have been developed to deal with the different syndromes , with varied results , the roux-en-y procedure has emerged as the operation of choice for most , if not all , postgastrectomy syndromes . however , the roux-en-y procedure has not been universally successful , and this operation can itself lead to the recently recognized postgastrectomy state of roux-en-y stasis syndrome . prevention therefore remains the best form of therapy , and remedial operation should not be undertaken until adequate time has elapsed since the original operation and all forms of conservative treatment have failed . 
reoperation for recurrent peptic ulcer disease . the patient with recurrent peptic ulcer evidences failure of an initial operation to control the ulcer diathesis . a trial of aggressive medical therapy is warranted in elective presentations and has a moderate chance of success . failing this , we believe that reoperation should be tailored to the patient 's physiologic status and previous operation ( table 5 ) . nevertheless , in most cases , we believe that the second operation should be the final operation and should consist of the procedure with the lowest recurrence rates . therefore , we believe that the assurance of an adequate antrectomy and complete vagal section is the preferred procedure for most patients with recurrent peptic ulcer . 
reoperation versus alternatives in retained biliary calculi . retained common bile duct stones can be treated by operation , dissolution , extraction , fragmentation , papillotomy , and reoperation . each approach requires some expertise , and the likelihood of success of most depends on the composition and size of the stones . good results often can be obtained nonoperatively , especially with a multidisciplinary team . reoperation is rarely necessary . 
emergency surgical treatment for nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract . endoscopic and biochemical data were collected prospectively from 1,530 patients admitted with nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract between september 1985 and june 1989 . therapeutic endoscopy was done for 93 patients who underwent emergency surgical treatment for bleeding , subsequently required in 29 patients with seven postoperative fatalities . in contrast , 31 ( 15.7 per cent ) of 198 patients ( mortality rate of 9.6 per cent at 30 days ) died in the hospital who had undergone emergency operation in whom therapeutic endoscopy had not been performed ; data for this latter group is now presented . at admission , a greater likelihood of emergency operation was associated with a systolic blood pressure of 100 millimeters of mercury and endoscopic stigmatas of recent hemorrhage ( esrh ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . rebleeding rates for the presence of fresh blood , active spurting and oozing hemorrhage or visible vessel in an ulcer base were 26.5 , 28.9 and 35.9 per cent , respectively . endoscopic stigmatas were thus associated with an increased risk of bleeding ( p less than 0.0001 ) and rebleeding led to a sixfold increase in the mortality rate . congestive cardiac failure , chronic obstructive airway disease , chronic renal failure and a history of previous malignant disease were each associated with postoperative mortality rates of more than 50 per cent . an increased risk of mortality after emergency operation was related to age ( p less than 0.0001 ) , preoperative ( p less than 0.002 ) and total ( p less than 0.0001 ) blood transfusion requirement . immediate operation after resuscitation and endoscopy was required in 87 patients ; 11 deaths ( hospital mortality rate of 12.7 per cent and 9.2 per cent at 30 days ) occurred in this group compared with 20 fatalities ( 18.0 per cent ) documented in 111 patients ( 9.9 per cent at 30 days ) who underwent surgical treatment for rebleeding . we conclude that age , concomitant medical illness and preoperative and total transfusion requirements are each related to outcome after emergency operations . such urgent intervention is best avoided if at all possible in patients with severe concomitant medical illness . 
mechanical sutures in perforation of the thoracic esophagus as a safe procedure in patients seen late . between 1976 and 1988 , we treated 13 perforations of the thoracic esophagus , excluding ruptured carcinoma and intraoperative wounds , by mechanical sutures without exclusion . the delay between perforation and treatment ranged from eight to 168 hours , more than 24 hours in 11 . the length of perforation was 0.5 to 15.0 centimeters . suture was covered with a flap in ten instances ; an antireflux procedure was associated with five instances . no digestive ostomies were performed . there was one death ; a patient who was comatose upon arrival . the results of this small series suggest that myotomy exposing the mucosa and a flap are two essential elements of the technique ; perforations of less than 6 centimeters , even when seen late , may be treated by primary surgical closure . 
incisional hernioplasty with mersilene . thirty large incisional abdominal hernias ( myoaponeurotic defects greater than 10 centimeters ) were successfully repaired by a technique of incisional hernioplasty which implants a large mersilene ( polyester fiber ) prosthesis in the space between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum . the prosthesis extends far beyond the borders of the myoaponeurotic defect , and is solidly held in place by intra-abdominal pressure and later by fibrous ingrowth . the prosthesis protects against recurrence in two ways . first , it prevents peritoneal eventration by adhering to the visceral sac and rendering it indistensible . second , the prosthesis unites and consolidates the abdominal wall . consequently , the procedure uniquely exploits the very force which caused the hernia to prevent a recurrence . a prosthesis of mersilene is essential for success because it is supple and elastic enough to conform freely to the curvatures of the visceral sac , has the necessary grainy texture to grip the peritoneum and prevent slippage and is reactive enough to induce a rapid fibroblastic response to ensure fixation . 
gastroesophageal reflux and respiratory symptoms : is there an association ? proposed mechanisms and treatment . gastroesophageal reflux ( ger ) is a dysfunction of the distal esophagus causing movement of stomach contents into the esophagus . patients may develop heartburn , regurgitation , dysphagia , odynophagia , and hemorrhage . respiratory symptoms occur in 10-60 percent of patients with ger or hiatal hernia . although there is evidence associating pulmonary symptoms and ger , causality has not been proven . the appropriate use of antireflux therapy or surgery to treat ger may consequently alleviate respiratory symptoms . 
death , after swallowing and aspiration of a high number of foreign bodies , in a schizophrenic woman . a 46-year-old woman who had had a long-term schizoid psychosis collapsed on the street . upon admission to the hospital , she was determined to have an acute abdomen . the chest radiograph showed metallic foreign bodies in both main bronchi ; foreign bodies in the stomach were not observed clinically . the woman died from repeated cardiac arrest shortly after hospital admission . at the autopsy a screw and a nail were found in both main bronchi . the abdominal cavity contained 2 l of greenish purulent fluid and a massive fibrinoid peritonitis was observed . two perforations of the stomach , each 1 cm in diameter , were detected . the stomach was completely filled with a mass of metallic foreign bodies , greenish fluid , and a bezoar of a total weight of 1,400 g ; 422 distinguishable and mostly metallic foreign bodies were counted . death was attributed to cardiac arrest in delayed shock after massive purulent peritonitis caused by two gastric perforations combined with obstruction of the airways by aspirated foreign bodies . cases of massive swallowing of foreign bodies are mainly restricted to mentally handicapped persons , especially schizophrenics , whereas acute impaction of the larynx by large food particles occurs nearly exclusively in heavily intoxicated adults . 
late volume changes in retrosternal colon bypass . esophageal obstruction by malignancy , chemical burns , or other less common entities presents a challenge for the surgeon . either for esophageal substitution after esophageal resection or as a bypass for the obstructed esophagus , colon interposition is often the best available option . massive colonic enlargement requiring resection of the interposed dilated colon developed recently in 2 of our patients who had a colon bypass 22 and 10 years earlier , respectively . 
stercoral perforation of the colon . stercoral perforation of the colon is rare . the 64 reported cases are reviewed to define the syndrome of stercoral perforation , and to facilitate accurate diagnosis and treatment . features of localized or generalized peritonitis were universal ; however , only 11 per cent were correctly diagnosed before operation . recognition that the disease involves a segment of colon rather than only the focal point of perforation is essential to adequate surgical treatment . it is postulated that this is the reason for the higher postoperative mortality following closure of the perforation and proximal colostomy ( 57 per cent ) or exteriorization alone ( 43 per cent ) , compared with resection of the diseased segment and exteriorization ( 32 per cent ) . resection and exteriorization is therefore the treatment of choice is most situations . 
adrenergic control of the internal anal sphincter is abnormal in patients with idiopathic faecal incontinence . there is histological and functional evidence that the internal anal sphincter is abnormal in patients with idiopathic faecal incontinence . the in vitro responsiveness of the internal anal sphincter to noradrenaline ( an important sympathetic neurotransmitter ) and electrical field stimulation ( known to stimulate the intrinsic innervation ) has been studied . muscle strips from eight patients with incontinence undergoing postanal repair and five controls undergoing resection for low rectal carcinoma were studied . the contraction-response curves for noradrenaline were significantly different , and the ec50 , the concentration required to produce 50 per cent of maximum contraction , was higher in incontinent patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . electrical field stimulation produced initial contractions in four of the control group which were blocked by phentolamine . this contraction was not present in the incontinent patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . these results indicate an abnormality in the adrenergic innervation of the internal anal sphincter in patients with idiopathic faecal incontinence . 
paraileostomy hernia : a clinical and radiological study . forty-six patients who underwent colectomy with end ileostomy for ulcerative colitis ( n = 33 ) or crohn 's disease ( n = 13 ) have been reviewed for paraileostomy hernia ( pih ) formation 1-16 years after surgery . pih developed in 13 of these patients ( 28 per cent ) and was not related to the original disease or excessive weight gain . twenty-eight patients underwent limited computed tomography ( ct ) scanning of the stomal region . eight of these had a clinically detectable pih , which was demonstrated on ct . a further two patients had pih demonstrated on ct which was not detected by clinical examination . the rate of pih was similar where the stoma emerged lateral to the rectus abdominis muscle ( six out of 16 patients , 37 per cent ) to where the stoma emerged through the rectus ( four out of 12 patients , 33 per cent ) . recurrence following operative repair of pih was common . pih occurs more frequently than previously supposed . ct can detect pih and may be useful in evaluating a patient with stoma-related symptoms for occult pih formation . 
risk of cancer death in first-degree relatives of patients with hereditary non-polyposis cancer syndrome ( lynch type ii ) : a study of 130 kindreds in the united kingdom . to estimate the relative risks of cancer in first-degree relatives of index patients , 130 pedigrees of dominantly inherited lynch type ii cancer family syndrome have been analysed . the risk of death from all causes was significantly increased in women over 45 years of age and the overall liability to cancer in women was greater than for men . a sevenfold increase in risk of colon cancer was found in both sexes . in female relatives the risk of breast cancer was increased fivefold and lifetime risk of breast cancer was 1 in 3.7 . a screening programme based on estimated risks could be offered to first-degree relatives of index patients with lynch type ii cancer family syndrome . 
achalasia of the cardia : long-term results of oesophagomyotomy and posterior partial fundoplication . forty-eight patients with achalasia of the cardia were treated by heller 's myotomy with a posterior fundoplication of approximately 270 degrees , suturing the gastric fundus to the edges of the myotomy . the mean ( s.d. ) postoperative follow-up period was 5.4 ( 2.8 ) years . the clinical results were good to excellent in 44 cases ( 92 per cent ) and fair in four cases ( 8 per cent ) ( two with residual dysphagia and two with gastrooesophageal reflux ) . barium studies showed a decrease in oesophageal diameter and disappearance of distal narrowing but normal oesophageal emptying did not occur . postoperative manometric studies ( 29 patients ) revealed a significant decrease in lower oesophageal sphincter pressure and a significant increase in the length of the infradiaphragmatic segment . in the oesophageal body a recovery of peristaltic waves in the proximal third was seen in ten of the patients ( 34 per cent ) . twenty-four-hour ph monitoring showed pathological reflux in only three of 25 patients studied , and one of these was asymptomatic . this technique is effective , improving oesophageal symptoms and controlling long-term reflux . 
surgical results of intrathoracic gastric volvulus complicating hiatal hernia . from 1981 to 1988 , 138 patients with hiatal hernia were treated surgically at our centre . twenty-one ( mean age 76.6 years , 17 women , four men ) had an associated intrathoracic gastric volvulus . eleven patients ( mean age 73.2 years ) , of whom eight were asymptomatic , had an elective procedure . ten patients ( mean age 80.3 years ) had emergency surgery , six for acute complications of the volvulus ( five cases of strangulation and one of perforated ulcer ) and four because of other , unrelated causes of acute abdomen . there were four deaths after operation , all in the emergency surgery group . four other patients had significant morbidity , all in the emergency group . in the elective cases , all hernias were easily reduced . in one emergency case a gastrotomy was necessary for decompression , and in another gastrectomy was necessary because of gastric gangrene . our results indicate the need for elective intervention when intrathoracic gastric volvulus is first diagnosed . 
serum gastrin and blood glucose levels during halothane-nitrous oxide anaesthesia and strabismus surgery in children . the purpose of this study was to determine whether serum gastrin levels are increased by reflexogenic stimuli applied to the extrinsic muscles of the eye . serum gastrin and blood glucose concentrations were measured in ten normal children aged between 5 and 12 yr during general anaesthesia with halothane and nitrous oxide and during strabismus surgery . fasting basal concentrations of gastrin ( 33.6 + / - 14.8 pg.ml-1 ) and of glucose ( 4.43 + / - 0.72 mmol.l-1 ) were in the normal range of values for children . intravenous atropine ( 0.01 mg.kg-1 ) , general anaesthesia with halothane in nitrous oxide and oxygen by mask for three minutes , tracheal intubation , extraocular muscle stimulation and surgical stress did not cause any variation in the mean serum gastrin concentration . on the contrary , tracheal intubation and surgical stress increased blood glucose concentrations ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was no difference in the serum gastrin levels after extraocular muscle stimulation between children with positive or negative oculocardiac reflexes ( 44.5 + / - 16.7 pg.ml-1 vs 38 + / - 14.7 pg.ml-1 , respectively ) . the incidence of vomiting predischarge was 60 per cent . serum gastrin levels did not differ between children who vomited and children who did not ( 44.3 + / - 18.5 pg.ml-1 vs 47.1 + / - 16.9 pg.ml-1 , respectively ) . vomiting after strabismus surgery can not be attributed to high gastrin serum levels . consequently , it is unlikely that vomiting after strabismus surgery is linked to an " oculogastric reflex " with the vagus nerve as the efferent pathway . 
antiemetic prophylaxis with promethazine or droperidol in paediatric outpatient strabismus surgery . this randomized , double-blind study evaluated the antiemetic efficacy and the side-effects of promethazine pretreatment ( 0.5 mg.kg-1 iv + 0.5 mg.kg-1 im ) versus droperidol + placebo pretreatment ( droperidol , 0.075 mg.kg-1 iv + physiological saline , 0.02 ml.kg-1 im ) . one hundred unpremedicated asa physical status i children ranging from two to ten years , and undergoing outpatient strabismus surgery were studied . all children received inhalational anaesthesia with halothane , nitrous oxide and oxygen . neither opioids nor muscle relaxants were used . the incidence of vomiting and/or retching and the incidence of side-effects were determined in the post-anaesthesia recovery room ( parr ) , in the short-stay surgical unit ( sssu ) , and after discharge from the hospital ( including the journey and the stay at home during the first postoperative day ) . promethazine and droperidol were equally effective in reducing the incidence of vomiting before discharge to two and eight per cent respectively . on the contrary , the incidence of vomiting after discharge and overall were significantly less with promethazine ( ten and ten per cent ) than with droperidol pretreatment ( 54 and 56 per cent ) ( p less than 0.0001 ) . promethazine permitted the time to discharge from the hospital to be reduced to an average of three hours , without increasing the incidence of vomiting postdischarge . promethazine pretreatment is much less expensive than droperidol pretreatment . the incidence of restlessness was significantly less with droperidol ( eight per cent ) than with promethazine ( 36 per cent ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . promethazine pretreatment demands the use of an analgesic like acetaminophen in order to reduce the incidence of postoperative pain and restlessness . 
maternal outcome after open fetal surgery . a review of the first 17 human cases . a few fetal diseases may benefit from surgical treatment before birth , but hysterotomy and subsequent delivery by cesarean section pose a risk to the otherwise unaffected mother . to assess maternal risk of mortality , morbidity , and reproductive potential after fetal surgery , we reviewed our experience with 17 highly selected women who underwent fetal surgery . fifteen of these procedures were performed for one of two congenital anomalies : severe bilateral hydronephrosis and congenital diaphragmatic hernia . there were no deaths or serious maternal injuries . in the 14 women who continued pregnancy after hysterotomy , uterine irritability and preterm labor were frequent complications , requiring early confinement in most cases . there has been no detectable effect on future fertility , as indicated by eight subsequent normal pregnancies . we conclude that hysterotomy for fetal surgery can be accomplished without unduly endangering the mother 's life or her future reproductive potential . however , morbidity related to premature labor remains a serious problem , and our ability to control uterine contractions after hysterotomy remains the limiting factor in human fetal surgery . 
gallstone pancreatitis . choosing and timing treatment . patients with gallstone pancreatitis are often seen initially by primary care physicians . prompt diagnosis and timely intervention are crucial in reducing morbidity and mortality . initial management should include supportive medical care and surgical consultation . the timing of surgery is then dictated by serum enzyme levels and liver function test results as well as by the patient 's condition . the role of endoscopic intervention is currently evolving . whether surgery or endoscopic sphincterotomy is preferable as primary therapy for gallstone pancreatitis remains unresolved . however , sphincterotomy with stone extraction is a viable option in selected cases , especially in patients who have severe gallstone pancreatitis . 
gynecomastia . a bothersome but readily treatable problem . although breast enlargement in boys and men can cause both psychological and physical distress , the disorder is rarely serious and is readily treatable . several factors can lead to the estrogenic excess that causes growth of breast tissue . dr jacobs describes a patient with gynecomastia related to cirrhosis of the liver who responded promptly to a brief course of tamoxifen citrate therapy . 
endoscopy versus x-ray studies of the gastrointestinal tract : future health care implications . i did esophagogastroduodenoscopy in 147 patients and colonoscopy in 59 patients who had had gastrointestinal x-ray studies . the endoscopic procedure was done within 7 days after the x-ray study and/or while the patient was still symptomatic . the barium swallow findings were confirmed in only 40 % ; in the other 60 % , the x-ray findings could not be confirmed . these unconfirmed x-ray findings were false-positive in 37.4 % , false-negative in 16.3 % , and suboptimal or nondiagnostic in 6.2 % . the barium enema findings were confirmed in 32 % . in the other 68 % , the x-ray findings were false-positive in 42.3 % , false-negative in 22 % , and suboptimal in 3.3 % . we conclude that in clinical or private practice , relying on x-ray studies alone may be associated with a high margin of diagnostic errors . when all factors are considered , the initial cost advantage of the x-ray studies appears to be lost . in future recommendations on the continuing dilemma of x-ray studies versus endoscopy , consideration should be given to factors other than the initial lower price of the x-ray studies . 
high mortality among patients with the leukemoid reaction and alcoholic hepatitis . we describe a patient with severe alcoholic hepatitis , markedly elevated white blood cell count , and high fever . after review of the english literature , we discovered reports of other cases similar to our case . the striking feature in all of these cases was a high short-term mortality rate , despite predictions of a favorable outcome . we therefore believe these patients represent a subgroup of patients with alcoholic hepatitis and that the leukemoid reaction is a poor prognostic sign in this disease . 
hepatocyte transplantation into the lung for treatment of acute hepatic failure in the rat . the lung was investigated as a matrix for transplanted hepatocytes in the rat model . surgically induced fulminant hepatic failure was successfully treated by injection of 5 to 7 x 10 ( 7 ) isolated hepatocytes into the pulmonary parenchyma in 86 % of the animals . no animal , however , survived injection of hepatocytes into the jugular vein . it was found that liver failure is a prerequisite for the intrapulmonary survival of hepatocytes . after regeneration of the native liver , the majority of hepatocytes are cleared away within 6 months . 
contributions of the zollinger-ellison syndrome . the salient contributions of the zollinger-ellison syndrome have made it unique . no pancreatic endocrine tumor described before ( insulinoma ) or subsequently ( glucagonoma , somatostatinoma , vipoma , pancreatic-polypeptidoma ) has been the topic of such a variety of studies , or has been such an inspiration and rich source of new ideas for investigation and ultimate improvement in patient care . 
transduodenal sphincteroplasty with transampullary septectomy for stenosing papillitis . the papilla of vater and its sphincter of oddi , lying at the confluence of the bile and pancreatic ducts in man , have long been suspected as a source of upper abdominal pain . enlarging the opening of the transpapillary segment of the bile and major pancreatic ducts by using a transduodenal sphincteroplasty with transampullary septectomy resulted in death in a patient with a peripapillary diverticulum and pancreas divisum . eight-six patients followed for 1 to 10 years experienced a 75 % success rate . thirty-six patients had a marked stenosis of their duct of wirsung , suggesting that their pain was primarily from the pancreas . the remainder had either a generalized narrowing ( 40 patients ) or a normal ( 7 patients ) papilla . pain was not satisfactorily resolved in patients with an associated pancreas divisum , chronic pancreatitis , and recurrent episodes of acute pancreatitis with alcoholism . 
historical review of pancreaticoduodenectomy . the performance of pancreaticoduodenectomy by whipple in 1935 demonstrated that the operation was feasible technically and compatible with reasonable function after recovery . from the mid - to late 1940s until the last 10 years , the procedure was condemned by many because of its associated mortality and morbidity . for reasons that are not clear , the risk of pancreaticoduodenectomy in the last 10 years has fallen to less than 10 % and in several centers , less than 5 % . postoperative complications have been reduced and blood transfusions are unnecessary in an increasing number of patients . furthermore , a normal productive life without the need for medication and with no digestive disorder is expected . seventy-one percent of patients are able to return to their preoperative occupation . 
neuroendocrine design of the gut . the enteric nervous system ( ens ) can be thought of as the third component of the autonomic nervous system . it is a vast network of neurons widely dispersed throughout the gut . the ens is a dominant regulator of gut function through the action of peptide and non-peptide neurotransmitters . the most intensively studied roles of the ens have been the regulation of secretory processes , such as gastric acid secretion , and motility . it is clear , however , that the ens plays a broader role in the regulation of other gut functions , including mucosal defense , the gut immune response , and sphincter function . alterations in the regulation of gut function by the ens are likely or suspected in a number of conditions , including achalasia , hirschsprung 's disease , inflammatory bowel disease , chagas ' disease , chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction , biliary dyskinesia , tachygastria , and irritable bowel syndrome . improved knowledge of the pathophysiology of these troublesome conditions makes effective therapy more likely in the future . 
the roux operation for postgastrectomy syndromes . the aim of this paper is to describe the technique , indications , and results of the roux operation as used in the treatment of postgastrectomy syndromes . a roux gastrojejunostomy with a 40-cm roux limb is the procedure of choice for alkaline reflux gastritis , because it virtually eliminates reflux of bile and pancreatic juice into the stomach . the slow transit through a roux limb can also be used to good advantage to slow gastric emptying in patients with dumping . patients with delayed gastric emptying respond to the combination of near-total gastric resection , which removes the atonic gastric remnant and speeds emptying , and roux-y gastrojejunostomy , which prevents reflux esophagitis and provides a reservoir for ingesta in the upper gut . after all roux operations , however , the roux limb may slow emptying so much that pain , fullness , nausea , and food vomiting result , the so-called roux stasis syndrome . prevention of the roux stasis syndrome with an " uncut " roux limb and the treatment of the syndrome by using electrical pacing to suppress the ectopic pacemakers that emerge in the limb offer possible new solutions to this vexing problem . 
germfree animals and technics in surgical research . germfree animals have been reared to a size , weight , and age permitting the performance of major surgical procedures and the pursuit of a variety of surgical research problems . germfree dogs have been maintained in the isolator system through three generations , indicating that life , reproduction , and growth are all possible in the absence of microbial contamination . the value of the germfree approach to surgical problems has been utilized in studies of a variety of gastrointestinal problems , shock , cancer , immunology , burns , wound healing , and in direct patient application . patients have been maintained in isolator environments for prevention of infection , for operative procedures , for treatment of extensive burns , and for management of immune-suppressed individuals . we conclude that germfree animals and germfree technics provide a valuable addition to the armamentarium of the surgeon in both research and clinical applications . 
gastro-oesophageal reflux during elective laparoscopy . an oesophageal ph electrode was used to record gastro-oesophageal reflux in 73 women who had elective laparoscopy for various gynaecological procedures . no refluxes were recorded during the 63 procedures from which results could be analysed ; the upper 95 % confidence limit from this observation is 3 in 63 ( 4.8 % ) . two of the excluded women refluxed during episodes of hiccough that occurred shortly after induction of anaesthesia . tracheal intubation may be required during laparoscopy , although the need to protect against the possibility of aspiration of gastric contents may not be a valid reason unless , with the same logic , it is suggested that all patients who hiccough should be intubated . 
ichthyosis , exocrine pancreatic insufficiency , impaired neutrophil chemotaxis , growth retardation , and metaphyseal dysplasia ( shwachman syndrome ) . report of a case with extensive skin lesions ( clinical , histological , and ultrastructural findings ) . the shwachman syndrome comprises exocrine pancreatic insufficiency , growth retardation , and bone marrow hypoplasia resulting in neutropenia . clinical , morphological , and ultrastructural studies , as well as hair analysis , were performed in a patient with shwachman 's syndrome and severe ichthyosis . clinical findings were lamellar ichthyosiform desquamation on the extremities . the hair was scanty and short on the scalp , in the eyelashes , and in the eyebrows . the nails were hyperkeratotic . morphologic findings were slight , regular acanthosis and severe diffuse hyperkeratosis with variable parakeratosis . the granular layer was thickened . the papillary dermis showed very slight perivascular lymphocyte infiltration . the most prominent ultrastructural finding was the presence of solitary or multiple droplets of varying size in the cytoplasm of the keratinocytes . hair analysis revealed no abnormalities ; the cystine concentration in hair specimens was normal . 
a videofluoroscopy chair for the evaluation of dysphagia in patients with severe neuromotor disease . due to the difficulties encountered in positioning severely neurologically impaired individuals for videofluoroscopic studies , the rehab tech video fluorochair was developed . the purpose of the chair is to provide the severely disabled patient with safe , stable postural support in an upright position for videofluoroscopic studies , with anterior-posterior , lateral , and rotational views easily performed . the chair features a removable headrest , a full back support , armrests , lateral truncal supports , and a patented base which is clamped to the footboard of the radiology table and allows for 200 degrees rotation of the patient . two case studies illustrate the practical use and versatility of the rehab tech video fluorochair . 
serological evidence of infection with helicobacter pylori may predict gastrointestinal intolerance to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) treatment in rheumatoid arthritis . specific circulating antibodies to the spiral gastric organism , helicobacter pylori ( hp ) were detectable in 43 % of 68 patients with rheumatoid arthritis by complement fixation test ( cft ) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , a frequency comparable with that of a normal , age-matched population . presence of these antibodies correlated strongly with a previous history of peptic ulcer disease ( pud ) and to the severity of nsaid-related dyspeptic symptoms , the latter often leading to multiple drug intolerance . this contrasts with short term , prospective nsaid toxicity data , which show little relationship between ulceration and hp carriage . this result suggests , however , that hp may have a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptomatic pud associated with more chronic nsaid usage , and may have important implications for ulcer prophylaxis in these patients . 
the long-term effects of radiation therapy on patients with ovarian dysgerminoma . a retrospective chart review and questionnaire study was undertaken to look at the long-term effects of radiation therapy in ovarian dysgerminoma patients . forty-three patients and 55 controls responded to a questionnaire that detailed bowel , bladder , thyroid , menstrual , reproductive , sexual , and growth function . statistically significant differences in the number of bowel movements were noticed when comparing patients with controls . the authors noticed no significant differences between cases and controls in bladder function . no thyroid disorders were attributable to mediastinal radiation therapy . most patients with intact uteri bleed monthly on hormonal replacement . three patients with a remaining ovary and uterus resumed menstrual function after substantial doses of abdominopelvic radiation therapy . no patients have conceived . the authors noticed a slight increase in dyspareunia in the treated group , but most patients were satisfied with their sexual function . one premenarchal patient exhibited a growth disorder . 
primary and metastatic pulmonary meningioma . patient 1 was a 53-year-old man who had a very rare primary pulmonary meningioma that developed in the left lingular segment . when this report was written , 7 years had passed since he underwent operation , and no recurrence of the meningioma had been detected . in patient 2 , a 61-year-old woman , multiple pulmonary metastases were confirmed 19 years after she had undergone operation for multiple cerebellar meningiomas , and the metastases were resected . after 2 years , multiple intraperitoneal metastases were found , and thus aggressive surgery was performed . currently , 22 years after the operation for the primary cerebellar meningioma , the patient is alive without any subjective symptoms , although intraperitoneal metastases have recurred . to date , only four cases ( all in women ) of primary pulmonary meningioma have been reported . case 1 reported in this article is thus the first case in a male patient to be reported , and , in addition , this patient also has the first reported case to have been evaluated for more than 5 years . in case 2 , however , each of the excised extracranial tumor lesions was histologically homogeneous and showed a hemangiopericytomatous pattern . the histologic picture of those tumor lesions was exactly the same as the picture of a small portion of the cerebellar meningiomas excised 19 years earlier . thus , all those extracranial tumor lesions were diagnosed to be metastatic meningiomas . however , it is difficult to explain why there had been no symptoms for as long as 19 years until the pulmonary metastases were discovered . 
functional comparison between double and triple ileal loop pouches . ileal pouch function in 35 patients operated upon by the same surgeon were compared . seventeen of the patients had a double loop ( j ) ileal pouch-anal anastomosis ( ipaa ) and 18 a triple loop ( s ) pouch . the patients were examined a mean of 27.9 months and 5.1 months , respectively , after ileostomy closure . ten of the s-pouch patients were evaluated more than 6 months ( s greater than 6 months ) , mean 9.1 after ileostomy closure . there were no differences in the mean maximum resting pressures or maximum squeeze pressures between the groups . the incidence of daytime and nocturnal leakage was lower in the s-pouch group , 22 and 29 percent , than in the j group 29 , and 53 percent . though the mean maximum tolerated volume ( mtv ) of the s-pouch group was greater than the j group , the difference was not statistically significant . the difference in the mean compliance between the j - and s-pouch groups and the j and s greater than 6 months group was statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) and ( p less than 0.008 ) . all the patients could evacuate spontaneously . the difference in the 24-hour frequency of defecation between the s greater than 6 months and j group was significant ( p less than 0.05 ) , but not between the s and j groups . the median frequency of nocturnal defecation between the s greater than 6 months and j pouch groups was significant ( p less than 0.005 ) , but not between the s and j groups . the triple loop s-pouches were more compliant than the j-pouches and had a better functional result as shown by a lower incidence of nocturnal leakage , and a lower frequency of defecation during the day and night . 
the role of sphincteroplasty for fecal incontinence reevaluated : a prospective physiologic and functional review . sixteen female patients ( mean age 54.1 years ; range 34-74 years ) with a 9.8-year ( range 1-25 years ) history of incontinence to solid stool underwent overlapping sphincteroplasty with internal sphincter imbrication without fecal diversion . all patients were prospectively evaluated with preoperative anorectal manometry , electromyography , and pudendal nerve motor latency assessment , postoperative anorectal manometry , and preoperative and postoperative functional evaluation . mean and maximal resting pressures increased from 30 mm hg and 49 mm hg preoperatively to 40 mm hg and 57 mm hg , respectively , postoperatively . likewise , mean and maximal squeeze pressures increased from 27 mm hg and 48 mm hg preoperatively to 39 mm hg and 73 mm hg , respectively , postoperatively ( p less than 0.01 ) . furthermore , anal canal high pressure zone length was increased by sphincteroplasty from a mean of 0.9 cm ( range 0-3 cm ) to a mean of 2.1 cm ( range 1-4 cm ) . these objective physiologic improvements correlated well with subjective functional improvement . subjectively , functional outcome was rated by patients as excellent in 38 percent , good in 38 percent , fair in 19 percent , and poor in only 5 percent of cases . overlapping sphincteroplasty with internal sphincter imbrication improves both the anal sphincter physiologic profile and fecal continence . 
rectopexy is an ineffective treatment for obstructed defecation . the symptoms of obstructed defecation have been attributed to rectal intussusception , and thus rectopexy has been advocated in the surgical management . in this study , patients with obstructed defecation underwent manometry and proctography before and after rectopexy . seventeen patients ( 16 females and one male , mean age 51.6 years ) were studied . eleven underwent anterior and posterior fixation of the rectum and six had posterior fixation only . preoperatively five patients demonstrated rectoanal intussusceptions . fifteen had significant pelvic descent . no significant change in maximum resting pressure , maximum voluntary contraction , pelvic descent , or anorectal angle was seen postoperatively . in the initial follow-up , many patients had significant amelioration of symptoms . however , on longer follow-up ( mean 30.8 months ) only two had long-term improvement . the remainder had a poor clinical result in spite of complete resolution of rectal intussusception . many reported a worsening of symptoms as reflected by an increase in tenesmus and stool frequency . in the two cases with a satisfactory result , both could empty the rectum completely and demonstrated rectoanal intussusception on preoperative evacuation proctography . in those with poor results , four had complete emptying and three had rectoanal intussusception . in conclusion rectopexy is an ineffective treatment for obstructive defecation in most patients . 
treatment of anorectal abscess with or without primary fistulectomy . results of a prospective randomized trial . to determine whether primary fistulectomy should be performed or not at the time of incision and drainage , a prospective , randomized study in 70 patients with anorectal abscess was conducted . thirty-six patients underwent incision , drainage and fistulectomy with primary partial internal spincterectomy ( group i ) , whereas in 34 patients anorectal abscess was treated by incision and drainage alone ( group ii ) . after a median follow-up of 42.5 months , the combined recurrence or persistence rate was 2.9 percent in group i and 40.6 percent in group ii ( p less than 0.0003 , log-rank test ) . recurrent abscesses or persistent fistulas were treated by secondary partial internal sphincterectomy . comparing anal continence before and 1 year after definite treatment , we found increased anal function disturbances in 39.4 percent of the patients in group i and in 21.4 percent of the patients in group ii ( p less than 0.106 , fisher-exact test ) . the combined recurrence or persistence rate of 40.6 percent indicates that more than half of the patients with anorectal abscess will have no further problems after simple incision and drainage . this finding , as well as the increased anal function disturbances after partial internal sphincterectomy ( either primary or secondary ) are the main reasons to reserve fistulectomy as a second stage procedure if necessary . 
anal sphincter function after intersphincteric resection and stapled ileal pouch-anal anastomosis . this study was done to determine the effect of the direct ileal pouch-anal anastomosis upon pressure and sensory components of the anal canal and ileal pouch . these findings were related to postoperative continence . thirty-three patients with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis ( 25 continent , eight with episodic minor incontinence ) were studied 3 + / - 0.3 and 25 + / - 5 months after ileostomy takedown . the maximum resting pressure in the anal canal was significantly lower in patients with an imperfect result ( 35 + / - 5 mm hg ) than in continent patients ( 44 + / - 5 mm hg ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . postoperatively the maximum squeeze anal pressure was slightly greater in continent than in incontinent patients ( 99 + / - 8 mm hg vs. 87 + / - 7 mm hg ) ( p greater than 0.05 ) . the postoperative recto - ( ileo - ) anal inhibitory reflex was present in 27 percent . the linear correlation between strength of rectal ( ileal ) distension and depth resp . duration of internal sphincter relaxation as preoperatively observed disappeared postoperatively in every group of patients . simultaneous measurements of pouch and anal pressure in patients with imperfect results revealed a reduced positive pouch anal pressure gradient compared to the continent group . this low pouch-anal pressure gradient is thought to be responsible for the increased incidence of soiling in some of our patients . 
a case of cecocolic intussusception with complete invagination and intussusception of the appendix with villous adenoma . villous adenoma of the appendix is a rare neoplasm and intussusception of the appendix is a rare pathologic condition . a very rare case seen in a 35-year-old male with pain in the right lateral abdomen is reported . in this patient , the appendix along with the villous adenoma intussuscepted and invaginated into the cecal lumen , and presented as cecocolic intussusception . a polypoid lesion was diagnosed in the cecum by fiberoptic colonoscopy . unlike polypoid lesions at other sites in the large intestine , polypoid lesions of the cecum may accompany intussusception and invagination of the appendix . consequently , caution is required in performing endoscopic polypectomy in cases of polypoid lesions of the cecum . 
treatment of obstructive pneumatosis coli with endoscopic sclerotherapy : report of a case . the case of an 86-year-old man with cardiac and pulmonary failure , in whom pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis caused segmental obstruction of the sigmoid colon is described . the patient was treated with endoscopic puncture and sclerotherapy of the cyst walls in four sessions , giving endoscopic and radiologic regress of the lesions and symptomatic relief . 
effect of motilin on gastric emptying in patients with diabetic gastroparesis . objectives : because disturbances of gastric emptying are a serious complication in insulin-dependent diabetic subjects with regard to the maintenance of good metabolic control , we wanted to assess the effectiveness of motilin as a potential treatment for gastric emptying disturbances . research design and methods : the intestinal hormone motilin has been shown to accelerate gastric emptying in healthy subjects . therefore , we examined the effect of intravenous motilin on gastric emptying of a 99mtc colloid-labeled semisolid test meal in 9 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with diabetic gastroparesis . all patients had a significantly delayed gastric emptying rate compared with a group of 11 healthy control subjects . results : during the infusion of motilin , gastric emptying was accelerated , and it was no longer significantly different from control values . conclusions : these data demonstrate that motilin and related compounds such as erythromycin derivatives could be useful for the treatment of disturbed gastric emptying in diabetic subjects . 
studies on autoimmunity for initiation of beta-cell destruction . vii . evidence for antigenic changes on beta-cells leading to autoimmune destruction of beta-cells in bb rats . the diabetic syndrome in biobreeding ( bb ) rats is believed to result from the destruction of beta-cells by autoimmune responses . however , the initial events that cause the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells remain largely unknown . this investigation was initiated to see whether there are any antigenic changes on the beta-cells from neonatal to adult bb rats that may lead to the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells . pancreatic grafts from neonatal bb rats remained largely intact without insulitis when transplanted into the renal subcapsular space of acutely diabetic bb rats . similarly transplanted islet grafts from neonatal bb rats were also not subject to autoimmune destruction . in contrast , islet grafts obtained from adult bb rats , which had been treated with silica to prevent insulitis , were rapidly destroyed in diabetic recipients . these results indicate that beta-cells from neonatal bb rats are different from beta-cells from adult bb rats , at least regarding their recognition by immunologic effectors . considering our observations and previous information on the initial role of macrophages/dendritic cells in the development of insulitis in bb rats , we suggest that beta-cell-specific antigenic changes that precede insulitis may result in the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells in bb rats . 
minor papilla cannulation and dorsal ductography in pancreas divisum . until recently , pancreas divisum represented a major technical barrier to a complete evaluation of pancreatic ductal anatomy . technical refinements have now made it possible to achieve minor papilla cannulation and dorsal ductography in more than 90 % of attempts . in 120 consecutive dorsal ductograms , structural pathology was demonstrated in 36 subjects ( 30 % ) : chronic pancreatitis in 23 , pancreatic stones in 10 , pseudocyst ( s ) in 4 , ductal " cut-off " in 7 , pancreatic cancer in 3 , and partial agenesis in 1 ( some patients had more than one finding ) . for patients in whom alcohol abuse was excluded , ductal pathology was present in 25 % . abnormal ventral ductograms were present in only 8 % of cases , demonstrating that dorsal ductography has an appreciable additional diagnostic yield . when the clinical situation indicates the need for pancreatography , minor papilla cannulation should be performed if major papilla cannulation fails or reveals only the ventral pancreatogram of pancreas divisum . 
long-term follow-up in patients who have undergone balloon dilation for gastric outlet obstruction . although balloon dilation for gastric outlet obstruction has supplanted vagotomy plus drainage or resective therapy in some institutions , there are no long-term data which demonstrate what percentage of patients ultimately requires surgical intervention . of 23 evaluable patients treated with hydrostatic balloon dilation in our institution , 70 % were asymptomatic at a mean follow-up of 2.5 years . five patients required surgery -- one for acute perforation and the other four for symptoms of continued obstruction , despite one to three additional attempts at dilation . only three of seven patients with previous gastric resection had a satisfactory long-term result . whereas endoscopic therapy initially cost one tenth to one fifth that of surgical intervention , such figures do not factor for loss of productivity , on the one hand , or potential need for chronic h2 blockade , on the other . despite instruction to the contrary , only 6 of 15 ( 40 % ) active patients continue acid-suppressive therapy . we conclude that balloon dilation remains a viable alternative for selected patients with gastric outlet obstruction . 
endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis of the extent of gallbladder carcinoma . endoscopic ultrasonography ( eus ) was performed preoperatively in 39 patients with gallbladder carcinoma . diagnosis of the anatomical extent of gallbladder carcinoma was compared with histologic analysis , and staging accuracy was evaluated according to the tnm classification . carcinoma considered to be at an early stage with no lymph node metastasis was correctly diagnosed in 87.5 % . differential diagnosis between early and advanced staged tumors was possible in 79.5 % . overall accuracy for depth of tumor invasion ( t ) was 76.9 % . limitations were due to many stones in the gallbladder and microinfiltration of carcinoma . assessment of regional lymph node metastasis ( n ) was at a sensitivity of 81.8 % and specificity of 92.9 % , for an overall accuracy of 89.7 % . we believe endoscopic ultrasonography is useful in the clinical staging of gallbladder carcinoma . 
prospective randomized comparison of esophageal variceal sclerotherapy agents : sodium tetradecyl sulfate versus sodium morrhuate . we designed a prospective randomized study to evaluate differences in efficacy and complication rate between the two most commonly used sclerosing agents , sodium tetradecyl sulfate ( std ) and sodium morrhuate ( mor ) . of 41 patients with acute index variceal bleeding initially evaluated , 21 were randomized to receive 0.75 % std and 20 to receive 1.6 % mor diluted with 50 % dextrose . overall mortality for the std group was 38 % and that for the mor group was 25 % ( ns ) . control of acute bleeding was achieved in 86 % of the std patients and 90 % of the mor patients ( ns ) . overall , obliteration was achieved in only 33 % of the std group and 25 % of the mor group ; but in those patients who remained in the study over 3 months , obliteration was achieved in 87 and 83 % , respectively ( ns ) . there was a trend toward higher rebleeding in the std group compared with the mor group ( 81 % vs. 51 % ) ( p = 0.078 ) , but there was no significant difference between the std and mor patients with regard to transfusion requirements ( 8.4 units/patient vs. 8.7 units/patient ) , ulceration ( 53 % vs. 40 % ) , or stricture formation ( 9.5 % vs. 0.0 % ) . the results of this study suggest that std and mor are clinically equivalent sclerosing solutions , and that bias favoring use of one agent over the other may be unfounded . 
endoscopic variceal ligation in patients who have failed endoscopic sclerotherapy . endoscopic variceal ligation has been developed as an alternative to endoscopic sclerotherapy . we report a series of 12 men with a history of bleeding esophageal varices who were treated with endoscopic variceal ligation after they had failed sclerotherapy . hemostasis was achieved in all 10 patients who were bleeding at the time of initial endoscopy and again in those who subsequently re-bled . over a follow-up period of up to 22 months , varices have been and remain eradicated in five patients ; in four others , a reduction in grade was noted before death ( two patients ) , liver transplant , or loss to follow-up ( one patient each ) ; two patients died before they could be re-evaluated , while in the remaining patient , no reduction in variceal grade was noted before loss to follow-up . no complication was recorded after 35 endoscopic treatment sessions involving a total of 245 rubber band ligations . our results indicate that endoscopic variceal ligation may be used with success in patients who fail sclerotherapy . 
endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension . to assess reliability of the endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa for diagnosing portal hypertension , 50 patients with portal hypertension and 1323 controls were studied . endoscopic evidence of mild gastritis was seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension than in the control group ( 42 % vs. 13.1 % , p less than 0.001 ) . the mosaic sign was also seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension compared with controls ( 14 % vs. 0.9 % , p less than 0.001 ) . however , the mosaic sign was found to be nonspecific , and the sensitivity for diagnosis of portal hypertension was only 14 % . biopsy specimens from the stomach of all patients with portal hypertension and 100 controls with a normal endoscopic appearance revealed mucosal vascular congestion in 72 % of patients with portal hypertension compared with 59 % of controls ( ns ) . there was no correlation between endoscopic and histologic evidence of congestive gastropathy . similarly , there was no correlation between the severity of mucosal vascular congestion and the degree of inflammatory changes observed in the biopsy specimens ; both in the control ( r = 0.1 ) and in patients with portal hypertension ( r = 0.14 ) . it is concluded that endoscopic and histologic features of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension are of low sensitivity and nonspecific and can not be used to diagnose portal hypertension . 
endoscopic findings in yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis . the endoscopic findings in the colon and terminal ileum in eight cases of yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis infection were studied . the diagnosis was based on the isolation of y. enterocolitica in the feces and/or elevated serum antibody titers to the organism . total colonoscopy was performed between 7 and 38 days ( mean , 24 days ) after the onset of symptoms . in all patients , the terminal ileum was affected , followed by frequent involvement of the ileocecal valve and the cecum , and less frequently , the ascending colon . in the terminal ileum , round or oval elevations with or without ulcers were detected . small ulcers were detected on the ileocecal valve and in the cecum . these findings were observed even 4 to 5 weeks after the onset of symptoms , suggesting a relatively long course for this disease . 
twelve hour overnight oesophageal ph monitoring in patients with reflux symptoms . results of continuous 12 hour overnight ph monitoring ( duration of ph less than 4 ) were reviewed in 112 patients with heartburn or regurgitation , or both , and in 56 normal subjects . patients had more reflux than normal subjects . medically controlled patients ( n = 51 ) had less acid reflux than patients who subsequently underwent reflux surgery ( n = 61 ) , but there was a considerable overlap between those two groups . surgery was followed by a reduction in acid reflux to a value similar to that in normal subjects . patients in whom surgery was deemed to have failed had more reflux after the operation than those in whom it was successful , but no difference could be found in the preoperative reflux values of these two subgroups . monitoring ph is not of value in selecting candidates for surgery since the results are not a good predictor of outcome , but it is useful in the objective evaluation of surgical results . 
effect of increasing helicobacter pylori ammonia production by urea infusion on plasma gastrin concentrations . it has been proposed that the hypergastrinaemia in subjects with helicobacter pylori infection is caused by the action of the ammonia produced by the organism 's urease activity on the antral g cells . to investigate this hypothesis we examined the effect on plasma gastrin of increasing the bacterium 's ammonia production by infusing urea intragastrically to eight h pylori positive duodenal ulcer patients . after a 60 minute control intragastric infusion of dextrose solution at 2 ml/minute , a similar infusion containing urea ( 50 mmol/l ) was continued for four hours . during the urea infusion , the median gastric juice urea concentration rose from 1.1 mmol/l ( range 0.3-1 .6 ) to 15.5 mmol/l ( range 7.9-21 .3 ) and this resulted in an increase in the ammonium concentration from 2.3 mmol/l ( range 1.3-5 .9 ) to 6.1 mmol/l ( range 4.2-11 .9 ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . this appreciable rise in ammonia production did not result in any change in the plasma gastrin concentration . the experiment was repeated one month after eradication of h pylori , at which time the median basal gastrin was 20 ng/l ( range 15-25 ) , significantly less than the value before eradication ( 30 ng/l range 15-60 ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . on this occasion , the gastric juice ammonium concentration was considerably reduced at 0.4 mmol/l ( range 0.1-0 .9 ) and the urea infusion did not raise the ammonium concentration or change the plasma gastrin concentration . in conclusion , augmenting h pylori ammonia production does not cause any early change in plasma gastrin . 
dissociation between systemic and mucosal humoral immune responses in coeliac disease . we examined humoral immunity in coeliac disease as expressed in serum ( systemic immunity ) , and in saliva , jejunal aspirate , and whole gut lavage fluid ( mucosal immunity ) . the aims were to define features of the secretory immune response ( iga and igm concentrations and antibody values to gliadin and other food proteins measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) ) in active disease and remission , and to establish whether secretions obtained by relatively non-invasive techniques ( saliva and gut lavage fluid ) can be used for indirect measurements of events in the jejunum . serum , saliva , and jejunal aspirate from 26 adults with untreated coeliac disease , 22 treated patients , and 28 immunologically normal control subjects were studied , together with intestinal secretions obtained by gut lavage from 15 untreated and 19 treated patients with coeliac disease and 25 control subjects . jejunal aspirate iga and igm and gut lavage fluid igm concentrations were significantly raised in patients with untreated coeliac disease ; the lavage fluid igm concentration remained higher in patients with treated coeliac disease than in controls . serum and salivary immunoglobulin concentrations were similar in the three groups . patients with untreated coeliac disease had higher values of antibodies to gliadin compared with treated patients and control subjects in all body fluids tested ; these were predominantly of iga and igg classes in serum , and of iga and igm classes in jejunal aspirate and gut lavage fluid . values of salivary iga antibodies to gliadin were significantly higher in untreated coeliacs , though antibody values were generally low , with a large overlap between coeliac disease patients and control subjects . 
autoimmune enteropathy and colitis : is there a generalised autoimmune gut disorder ? children with protracted diarrhoea , circulating enterocyte autoantibodies , and an enteropathy showing features of inappropriate hla molecule expression on the jejunal crypt epithelium , often present with persistent blood and mucus in their stools . eight children with autoimmune enteropathy were investigated for the presence of associated colonic disease . six children with protracted diarrhoea , no circulating autoantibodies , and an enteropathy ( in five of them ) undergoing colonoscopy were used as control subjects . in all eight patients , but not in the control subjects , there was macroscopic and microscopic evidence of an accompanying colitis of variable severity , thus indicating that a more generalised intestinal disorder was present , which might affect the whole intestine . aberrant expression of dr molecules on the colonic surface and crypt epithelium was also detected . autoimmunity may play a role in the colitis . 
mycobacterium paratuberculosis and crohn 's disease . the possible aetiological role of mycobacterium paratuberculosis in crohn 's disease was investigated . the immunological response was studied using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , western blotting , and immunocytochemistry . the antibody response to two protoplasmic antigen preparations of m paratuberculosis in the sera of patients with inflammatory bowel disease was measured by elisa . igg and igm antibodies to these antigens were measured in serum samples from 52 patients with crohn 's disease , 15 patients with ulcerative colitis , and 41 control patients without inflammatory bowel disease . although there was wide variation in the concentrations of antibody detected , patients with crohn 's disease had concentrations that were not significantly different from those of the other two groups . in addition , mycobacterial antigens were separated by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the immune response to each antigen was then examined separately and assayed for igg and igm in 10 patients from each of the three groups . an indirect peroxidase test was also used to detect m paratuberculosis in sections of tissue from 18 patients with crohn 's disease and 10 with ulcerative colitis . the results were negative in all cases . this study does not support a role for m paratuberculosis in crohn 's disease . 
impaired sulphation of phenol by the colonic mucosa in quiescent and active ulcerative colitis . substantial amounts of phenols are produced in the human colon by bacterial fermentation of protein . in the colonic mucosa of animals , phenols are inactivated predominantly by conjugation with sulphate . the purpose of this study was to confirm sulphation of phenols by isolated colonocytes from man and to evaluate mucosal sulphation in inflammatory bowel disease using the phenol , paracetamol , in rectal dialysis bags . the incubation of paracetamol with colonocytes isolated from resected colon specimens ( n = 7 ) yielded a mean ( se ) value of 7.0 ( 0.9 ) mumols/g dry weight of paracetamol sulphate after 60 minutes but virtually undetectable values of paracetamol glucuronide . paracetamol sulphate was detected in rectal dialysates from all control subjects , with a mean ( se ) value of 4.2 ( 0.8 ) nmol/hour . sulphation was significantly impaired ( p less than 0.01 ) in 19 patients with active ulcerative colitis ( 0.6 ( 0.2 ) nmol/hour ) and in 17 patients with ulcerative colitis in remission ( 1.1 ( 0.4 ) nmol/hour ) . sulphation in eight patients with crohn 's colitis ( 4.3 ( 2.1 ) nmol/hour ) was similar to that in control subjects . impairment of the capacity of the mucosa to sulphate phenols in quiescent and active ulcerative colitis may pose a metabolic burden on colonic epithelial cells , which are continuously exposed to endogenous phenols from the colonic lumen . 
5-aminosalicylic acid is a potent inhibitor of interleukin 1 beta production in organ culture of colonic biopsy specimens from patients with inflammatory bowel disease . interleukin 1 beta in biopsy specimens from inflamed colonic mucosa of patients with active inflammatory bowel disease was studied . compared with normal colonic mucosal biopsy specimens , a significantly greater amount of interleukin 1 beta was present in rectal mucosa before ( median ( range ) 4.3 ( 2.0-11 .8 ) v 119.2 ( 30.1-286 .8 ) pg/mg ; p less than 0.01 ) and produced during organ culture ( 39.1 ( 9.4-106 .8 ) v 97.6 ( 28.2-991 .6 ) pg/mg ; p less than 0.01 ) . values of interleukin 1 beta after culture correlated with concentrations of thromboxane b2 . organ culture of inflamed biopsy specimens in the presence of 5 aminosalicylic acid and dexamethasone reduced the amount of interleukin 1 beta detected . at the doses studied , 5 aminosalicylic acid also reduced the amount of leukotriene b4 detected after culture . 
candidacidal activity of crohn 's disease neutrophils . the ability of normal and crohn 's disease neutrophils to kill candida albicans has been studied using neutrophils isolated from peripheral blood and suspended in phosphate buffered saline at 5 x 10 ( 6 ) cells per ml . c albicans was grown to a stationary phase in broth culture and suspended in phosphate buffered saline at 10 ( 7 ) organisms/ml . neutrophils and candida were then incubated together at 37 degrees c in a shaking water bath in the presence of fresh serum . at 30 and 60 minutes samples were withdrawn , neutrophils lysed , and candida survival assessed by colony counting . results were compared with control suspensions of candida incubated with serum alone . after 30 and 60 minutes in the presence of autologous serum normal neutrophils had killed significantly more candida than crohn 's disease neutrophils ( mean ( sd ) 61.0 ( 16.7 ) % v 40.5 ( 16.2 ) % at 30 minutes , p less than 0.0001 ; 83.2 ( 7 ) % v 70.8 ) 16 ) % at 60 minutes , p less than 0.005 ) . the results did not alter significantly when normal neutrophils were incubated with candida in the presence of crohn 's disease serum instead of normal serum . when crohn 's disease neutrophils were incubated with candida in the presence of normal serum instead of autologous serum there was some improvement in candidacidal ability at 30 minutes ( 48.9 ( 20.6 ) % v 40.5 ( 16.2 ) % , p less than 0.03 ) but not at 60 minutes . phagocytosis , measured using a radiometric assay , was normal . neutrophils from patients with crohn 's disease have an impaired ability to kill this granuloma provoking organism . it is not due to serum inhibitors or defective phagocytosis . 
mucosal characteristics of pelvic ileal pouches . this study aimed to investigate the degree of colonic metaplasia in ileo - anal pouches . biopsy specimens from 25 patients with functioning pouches , eight of whom had pouchitis , were studied using routine histology , mucosal morphometry , mucin histochemistry , and immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies directed towards a 40kd colonic protein and a small bowel specific disaccharidase-sucrase isomaltase . thirteen patients ( including all eight with pouchitis ) had subtotal or total villous atrophy and crypt hyperplasia . in this group , nine had colorectal type sulphomucin and the 40kd colonic protein was detected in two . these changes were not observed in patients with less severe villous abnormalities . sucrase-isomaltase activity was , however , present in all 25 pouch specimens . we conclude that although some ileal pouches acquire certain colonic characteristics , complete colonic metaplasia does not occur . 
alcohol consumption in patients with colorectal adenomatous polyps . the risk of developing colorectal adenomatous polyps is probably increased by a variety of dietary and environmental factors . we found an association with current alcohol and cigarette consumption . the risk of polyps was increased three times in drinkers who did not smoke and two times in smokers who did not drink , with those who both drank and smoked having 12 times the risk of total abstainers . since colonic adenomatous polyps are generally regarded as premalignant lesions , these results lend support to the view that alcohol consumption may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of colorectal neoplasia , thus reinforcing the proposed polyp/carcinoma sequence in colorectal carcinogenesis . the role of smoking , however , is less clear particularly since the lack of association of colorectal carcinoma and smoking has been reported in many other studies . 
how bad are the symptoms and bowel dysfunction of patients with the irritable bowel syndrome ? a prospective , controlled study with emphasis on stool form . since it is not known whether the symptoms and bowel function of patients with the irritable bowel syndrome are truly abnormal we used diaries and frequent telephone interviews over a 31 day period to assess symptoms , defecation , and stool types in 26 unselected female hospital patients with the irritable bowel syndrome , 27 women who admitted to recurrent colonic pain but had not consulted a doctor ( non-complainers ) , and 27 healthy control subjects . unexpectedly , abdominal pain and bloating occurred in most of the control subjects . pain , however , was six times more frequent in the patients and was more often considered severe . bloating occurred three times more often . defecation was more frequent , more erratic in timing and stool form , and more likely to produce stools of extreme forms , indicating rapid fluctuations in intestinal transit time . urgency was four times more prevalent in patients than control subjects . straining to finish defecating was nine times more prevalent and was often accompanied by feelings of incomplete evacuation -- a combination which could lead to the misdiagnosis of constipation . the normal relation between stool form and the above symptoms was distorted , possibly due to rectal irritability . non-complainers were intermediate between patients and control subjects in almost every parameter but were closer to control subjects than to patients . patients with the irritable bowel syndrome have real cause for complaint and their bowel function is truly abnormal . 
coeliac disease and malignancy of the duodenum : diagnosis by endoscopy , successful treatment of the malignancy , and response to a gluten free diet . a patient presented with subtotal villous atrophy and a malignant duodenal tumour of uncertain histogenesis . he was successfully treated by resection and chemotherapy and the small bowel mucosa recovered on a gluten free diet . the tumour was diagnosed at upper gastrointestinal endoscopy when barium studies and abdominal computed tomography were normal , thus making this one of the earliest coeliac malignancies diagnosed . 
successful control of bleeding from gastric antral vascular ectasia ( watermelon stomach ) by laser photocoagulation . we report a case of gastric antral vascular ectasia in a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis in whom chronic blood loss was a major problem . she required repeated blood transfusions that were complicated by reactions and still had persistent anaemia . she was treated with laser phototherapy in the form of quadrantic photocoagulation with a neodynium yttrium-aluminium-garnet laser . this greatly improved the endoscopic appearance of the gastric lesions and effectively controlled blood loss . she required no further transfusions . bleeding recurred after 11 months which was controlled by further laser photocoagulation . 
provision of gastrointestinal endoscopy and related services for a district general hospital . working party of the clinical services committee of the british society of gastroenterology . ( 1 ) the number of endoscopic examinations performed is rising . epidemiological data and the workload of well developed units show that annual requirements per head of population are approaching : upper gastrointestinal 1 in 100 flexible sigmoidoscopy 1 in 500 colonoscopy 1 in 500 ercp 1 in 2000 ( 2 ) open access endoscopy to general practitioners is desirable and increasingly sought . for a district general hospital serving a population of 250,000 , this workload entails about 3500 procedures annually , performed during 10 half day routine sessions plus emergency work . ( 3 ) high standards of training and experience are needed by all staff , who must work in purpose built accommodation designed to promote efficient and safe practice . ( 4 ) the endoscopy unit should be adjacent to day care facilities and near the x ray department . there should be easy access to wards . ( 5 ) an endoscopy unit needs at least two endoscopy rooms ; a fully ventilated cleaning/disinfection area ; rooms for patient reception , preparation , and recovery ; and accommodation for administration , storage , and staff amenities . ( 6 ) the service should be consultant based . at least 10 clinical sessions are required , made up of six or more consultant sessions and two to four clinical assistant , hospital practitioner , or staff specialist sessions . each consultant should be expected to commit at least two sessions weekly to endoscopy . extra consultant sessions may be needed to provide an efficient service . ( 7 ) a specially trained nursing sister ( grade g or h ) and five other endoscopy nurses are needed to care for the patients ; their work may be supplemented by care assistants . ( 8 ) a new post of endoscopy department assistant ( analogous to an operating department assistant ) is proposed to maintain and prepare instruments , and to give technical assistance during procedures . ( 9 ) a full time secretary should be employed . records , appointments , and audit should be computer based . ( 10 ) ercp needs the collaboration of an interventional radiologist working with high quality x ray equipment in a specially prepared radiology screening room . this facility may need to serve more than one hospital . ( 11 ) a gastrointestinal measurement laboratory can conveniently be combined with the endoscopy unit . in some hospitals one or more gastrointestinal measurement technicians may staff this laboratory . ( 12 ) an endoscopy unit is a service department analogous to a radiology department . it needs an annual budget . 
role of mast cells in ion transport abnormalities associated with intestinal anaphylaxis . correction of the diminished secretory response in genetically mast cell-deficient w/wv mice by bone marrow transplantation . to investigate the role of mast cells in transport abnormalities during intestinal anaphylaxis , we examined responses to antigen in isolated intestinal preparations from ovalbumin-sensitized genetically mast cell-deficient wbb6f1-w/wv ( w/wv ) mice and congenic normal wbbgf1 ( - ) + / + ( + / + ) mice . changes in ion transport ( primarily secretion of chloride ions ) were indicated by increases in short-circuit current ( isc ) . in tissues from + / + mice , antigen caused increases in isc which were significantly inhibited by antagonists to histamine ( diphenhydramine ) and serotonin ( ketanserin ) , by a cyclooxygenase inhibitor ( piroxicam ) and by a neurotoxin ( tetrodotoxin ) . in preparations from w/wv mice , antigen-stimulated responses were approximately 30 % of that in + / + mice and were inhibited only by piroxicam . responses to electrical transmural stimulation of nerves were approximately 50 % in w/wv versus + / + mice , and were inhibited by antagonists of mast cell mediators in + / + but not w/wv mice . reconstitution of mast cells in w/wv mice by intravenous injection of + / + bone marrow cells restored the normal responses to both antigen and nerve stimulation . our results indicate that mast cell-dependent mechanisms are primarily responsible for the ion secretion associated with intestinal anaphylaxis , but that other cells are also involved . in addition , our data provide evidence for the functional importance of bidirectional communication between nerves and mast cells in the regulation of ion transport in the gastrointestinal tract . 
association between primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension : analysis of its pathophysiology and clinical , laboratory and hemodynamic manifestations . to determine the clinical , laboratory and hemodynamic profile in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension and associated portal hypertension , 7 new cases and 71 previously reported cases were analyzed . there was no gender predilection and the average age at diagnosis was 41 years . liver cirrhosis was the most frequent cause of hypertension ( 82 % ) and a surgical portosystemic shunt was present in 29 % . almost invariably , portal hypertension either preceded or was diagnosed concurrently with pulmonary hypertension , favoring the hypothesis that in portal hypertension , the pulmonary vasculature may be exposed to vasoactive substances normally metabolized or produced by the diseased liver , possibly inducing vasoconstriction or direct toxic damage to the pulmonary arteries . clinically , exertional dyspnea was the most frequent presenting symptom ( 81 % ) ; other symptoms , such as syncope , chest pain and fatigue , were present in less than 33 % . an accentuated pulmonary component of the second heart sound ( 82 % ) and a systolic murmur ( 69 % ) were the most common physical findings . at least 75 % of these patients had evidence of pulmonary hypertension on electrocardiography ( right ventricular hypertrophy ) or roentgenography ( cardiomegaly or dilated main pulmonary arteries , or both ) . hemodynamic findings included severe pulmonary hypertension ( mean pulmonary artery pressure 59 + / - 19 mm hg ) with normal pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and cardiac output . treatment was basically palliative and the mean and median survival times were 15 and 6 months , respectively . in brief , on the basis of clinical presentation and laboratory features , patients with combined primary pulmonary hypertension and portal hypertension seldom represent a diagnostic challenge . further research is needed on treatment , which remains palliative . the survival rate is poor and worse than that seen in isolated primary pulmonary hypertension . 
the prevalence of gallstone disease in very old institutionalized persons . we present the results of a study that was undertaken at a large geriatric nursing home to assess the prevalence of gallstone disease in very old institutionalized persons . one hundred seventeen residents underwent ultrasound examination of the gallbladder . two thirds of 82 women and half of 35 men had gallstone disease . when stratified for age , 80 % of women and men over the age of 90 years were positive for the disease . in summary , the prevalence of gallstone disease in our very old nursing home population was found to be unexpectedly high . 
immune competent cells of regional lymph nodes in colorectal cancer patients : i. flow cytometric analysis of lymphocyte subpopulation . lymphocyte subpopulations of the regional lymph nodes in 20 colorectal cancer patients were measured by flow cytometry to analyze nodal lymphocytes phenotypically . eleven patients with cholelithiasis were used as controls . comparison of lymphocyte subpopulations between colorectal cancer and control groups revealed a significantly increased rate of leu-12 + cells in the cancer patients . furthermore , a significant increase of leu-3a + leu-8 - cells and a significant decrease of leu-3a + leu-8 + cells were also found in the paracolic nodes of the cancer patients . however , leu-2a + leu-15 - cells were not different between the both groups . meanwhile , in the cancer patients , the rates of leu-4 + , leu-3a + , and leu-3a + leu-8 - cells were higher in the paracolic nodes compared with the intermediate nodes . additional investigation of the correlation between clinicopathological features of the tumors and lymphocyte subpopulations , showed that leu-12 + cells were related to the tumor size and leu-2a + 15 - cells related to the histopathological type . the foregoing results indicate that the rates of both b and helper t cells , which may specifically participate in the antibody production , increase in the regional lymph nodes of colorectal cancer patients . 
clinical management of gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices . we report the late results of treatment of 13 consecutive patients with gastric cancer and concomitant esophagogastric varices . of seven good-risk patients classified as child 's class a or b , gastrectomy together with selective shunt operation was performed in two , total gastrectomy with splenectomy in three , and distal partial gastrectomy with paraesophageal devascularization without splenectomy in one . the remaining patient with early gastric cancer underwent distal partial gastrectomy following repeated endoscopic injection sclerotherapy ( eis ) for treatment of the esophageal varices . although the majority of patients who underwent surgical repair of varices ( i.e. , shunt , splenectomy , or devascularization ) died , total gastrectomy with splenectomy was the only procedure that led to control of the esophageal varices . since partial gastrectomy combined with eis limits the morbidity and mortality of an extensive resection and at the same time controls esophageal variceal bleeding , it is probably the procedure of choice for patients with a carcinoma in the lower two-thirds of the stomach . concerning non-surgical cases , two patients were effectively treated using laser endoscopy and eis , without the occurrence of variceal bleeding . the remaining four patients , given chemotherapy or irradiation for treatment of gastric carcinoma , died within 4 months with variceal bleeding or liver failure . for the poor-risk patients with evidence of severe liver dysfunction , laser treatment and eis would be the treatment of choice . 
self-management of dietary compliance in coeliac disease by means of elisa " home test " to detect gluten . to improve compliance with a gluten-free diet in coeliac disease a simple prototype test kit was developed to detect gluten in foods for use at home . the test is based on monoclonal antibodies to heat-stable gluten proteins which crossreact appropriately with barley and rye proteins . it is suitable for use with a wide range of raw or cooked foods . the food is extracted with dilute hydrochloric acid and 1 drop of the extract transferred to an antibody-coated tube ; enzyme-labelled gluten detection antibody is added and after 3 min the tube is washed and colour developer is added . the reaction is stopped after 2 min , stabilising the blue colour . the home kit was compared with a quantitative laboratory kit , and the qualitative agreement was very good . the kit could distinguish foods with trace gluten contents ( acceptable for a " gluten-free " diet ) from those with a slightly higher but unacceptable gluten content . in a trial of the prototype kit by 47 coeliac disease patients of diverse ages and educational backgrounds , 93 % of tests correctly identified foods as acceptable or unacceptable . 
rice-based oral electrolyte solutions for the management of infantile diarrhea background . in infants the treatment of acute diarrhea with glucose-based solutions results in rehydration but does not reduce the severity of diarrhea . oral rehydration with solutions based on rice powder may reduce stool output as well as restore fluid volume . methods . we designed a prospective , randomized , double-blind study to evaluate the efficacy of two rice-based rehydration solutions and a conventional glucose-based solution . solution a contained only rice-syrup solids , solution b contained rice-syrup solids and casein hydrolysate , and solution c , the glucose-based solution , served as control . the study subjects were 86 mildly to moderately dehydrated infant boys , 3 to 18 months old , who were admitted to a children 's hospital with acute diarrhea . we measured fluid intake , fecal and urine output , and absorption and retention of fluid , sodium , and potassium at intervals for 48 hours in all 86 infants . results . the mean ( + / - se ) fecal output was significantly lower in the infants given solution a ( group a infants ) than in the infants given solution c ( group c ) ( 29 + / - 4 vs. 46 + / - 7 ml per kilogram of body weight , p less than 0.05 ) during the first six hours of therapy . the infants in group a also had greater fluid absorption ( 221 + / - 16 vs. 167 + / - 9 ml per kilogram , p less than 0.05 ) over the entire 48 hours of therapy and greater potassium absorption ( 1.6 + / - 0.2 vs. 0.6 + / - 0.1 mmol per kilogram , p less than 0.05 ) during the first six hours than the infants in group c. solution b offered no advantages over solution a. conclusions . solutions containing rice-syrup solids were effective in the rehydration of infants with acute diarrhea . they decreased stool output and promoted greater absorption and retention of fluid and electrolytes than did a glucose-based solution . 
evidence for role of prostacyclin as a systemic hormone in portal hypertension . the possibility that prostacyclin could be a systemic hormone and could mediate the splanchnic hyperemia of chronic portal hypertension was evaluated in rabbits in a normotensive state and in rabbits with chronic partial ligation of the portal vein . in rabbits with portal hypertension ( pht ) , 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha ( pgf1 alpha , a prostacyclin degradation product ) was elevated twofold in all vascular beds ( systemic arterial , systemic venous , and portal venous ) when compared with levels in control animals . in pht rabbits , exogenous prostacyclin infusion after cyclooxygenase blockade through the systemic arterial , systemic venous , or portal venous route resulted in an equal elevation of 6-keto-pgf1 alpha in the reciprocal vascular beds and restored the original precyclooxygenase blockade hemodynamics . these hemodynamic changes were of equal magnitude irrespective of site of infusion in pht . in controls there was no significant change in 6-keto-pgf1 alpha or hemodynamics with intraportal infusion . we conclude that prostacyclin achieves systemic levels by escaping hepatic degradation resulting from portosystemic shunting in the animal with chronic portal hypertension . 
a new method for mapping hepatic subsegment : counterstaining identification technique . hepatic subsegmentectomy requires identification of the borders of tumor-bearing subsegment , usually achieved by injecting dye into the portal veins feeding the domain . we describe an alternative technique for performing systematic subsegmentectomy in patients with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma , in whom hepatic arterial and portal venous embolizations were already performed as a preoperative adjuvant . under ultrasonic guidance , each of the neighboring portal units is sequentially stained , thus defining the avascular subsegment to be resected as the nonstaining area . this allows the subsegment to be totally resected . this counterstaining identification technique can be used for all subsegments undergoing complete embolization and for other situations in which the usual staining method is impossible because of the presence of arterioportal shunting or portal tumor thrombus . 
cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma from nonneoplastic liver . the authors reviewed a series of fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) specimens of the liver to identify useful cytologic criteria to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) from nonneoplastic liver . ten cytologic features were examined in this study : high cellularity , acinar pattern , trabecular pattern , hyperchromasia , pleomorphism , irregularly granular chromatin , uniformly prominent nucleoli , multiple nucleoli , increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio , and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei . these features were examined in a series of 82 fnab specimens from 52 patients with hcc and 30 patients with nonneoplastic lesions . with the use of a step-wise logistic regression analysis , three features were identified as predictive of hcc : increased nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio ( p = 0.001 ) , trabecular pattern ( p = 0.002 ) , and atypical naked hepatocytic nuclei ( p = 0.03 ) . when these three criteria were used , the sensitivity of diagnosing hcc by fnab was 100 % , and the specificity was 87 % . 
nonpropulsive esophageal contractions and gastroesophageal reflux . nonpropulsive esophageal contractions radiologically described as tertiary contractions or " corkscrew " esophagus suggest the presence of an underlying motility disorder and may lead to impaired acid clearance . the goals of this study were to determine the prevalence and role of gastroesophageal reflux ( ger ) in patients with tertiary contractions . thirty-five consecutive patients with spontaneous , repetitive , nonpropulsive esophageal contractions noted on esophagography were studied with endoscopy , infusion esophageal manometry , and 24-h ambulatory ph monitoring . all patients had esophageal symptoms , mainly dysphagia , heartburn , and chest pain , but only three were found to have esophagitis by endoscopy and biopsy . nineteen patients had repetitive , nonlumen-obliterating , nonperistaltic ( tertiary ) contractions , six had corkscrew esophagus , and 10 had forceful , lumen-obliterating simultaneous contractions ( rosary bead esophagus ) . twenty patients ( 58 % ) had ger by ph criteria with mean values : % time ph less than 4 , 40.9 ; % upright ph less than 4 , 41 ; % supine ph less than 4 , 44.3 % ; number of episodes with greater than 5 min of ph less than 4 , 12 . esophageal motility revealed " nutcracker " esophagus in eight , low lesp in two , and nonspecific esophageal motility disorder in 10 . symptoms or severity of nonperistaltic contractions did not correlate with ger . radiologically demonstrable free reflux or the presence of heartburn did not predict ger . we conclude that 1 ) ger occurs in up to 58 % of patients with nonpropulsive ( tertiary ) esophageal contractions on esophagography , and may play a role in the induction of abnormal peristaltic activity of the esophageal body ; 2 ) ger is usually not associated with endoscopic evidence of esophagitis or characteristic symptoms , and is recognized by 24-h ph monitoring . we speculate that detection and treatment of ger may improve the symptomatic management of patients with nonpropulsive esophageal contractions . 
the symptom sensitivity index : a valuable additional parameter in 24-hour esophageal ph recording . twenty-four-hour esophageal ph monitoring is useful for the quantitative measurement of gastroesophageal reflux and for the demonstration of a temporal relationship between symptoms and reflux . the symptom index , a numerical score , was developed to quantify the association between symptoms and reflux . because the symptom index primarily assesses the specificity of a patient 's reflux symptoms , we propose to refer to this score as the symptom specificity index . because of certain limitations of this score , we developed and evaluated a new score , the symptom sensitivity index , that quantifies the subject 's sensitivity for reflux . fifty-two consecutive patients , referred to our laboratory for ambulatory 24-h ph recording were studied . beside the conventional reflux variables , both indexes were calculated . although a statistically significant correlation between the indexes was found , discordance between the specificity and sensitivity indexes was seen in 17 patients ( 33 % ) . based on the findings in this study we advocate that the symptom sensitivity index should be used , in addition to the symptom specificity index , and incorporated in future ph studies to optimalize the interpretation of the results . 
radiographic evaluation of suspected small bowel obstruction . plain abdominal radiographs and enteroclysis studies were reviewed blindly in 117 consecutive patients undergoing enteroclysis for suspected small bowel obstruction . plain radiographs were unreliably predictive of the presence of obstruction as determined by enteroclysis and surgery . among patients with normal or abnormal nonspecific plain radiographs , varying degrees of small bowel obstruction were demonstrated by enteroclysis in 22 % . conversely , of patients with obstruction on plain radiographs , 42 % had either normal enteroclysis studies or only minor adhesions . enteroclysis correctly predicted the presence of obstruction in 100 % , the absence of obstruction in 88 % , the level ( proximal vs distal ) of obstruction in 89 % , and the etiology of obstruction in 86 % of operated patients . enteroclysis is advocated as the definitive study in patients with clinical uncertainty about the diagnosis of small bowel obstruction . 
fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcer . in order to characterize the fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcers , we examined tissue specimens of patients with active duodenal ulcer disease ( n = 30 ) before and after treatment with either antacids ( n = 16 ) or h2-receptor antagonists ( n = 14 ) , by light microscopy and various electron microscopic techniques , e.g. , scanning and transmission electron microscopy . the characteristic histological feature of both the active and healed duodenal ulcer was the appearance of periodic acid-schiff ( pas ) - positive epithelial cells at the edge of the ulcers . electron microscopy revealed that these cells were similar to a special type of mucus-secreting cell in the antrum ( surface mucous cell ) . their mucus granules contained mainly neutral glycoproteins . helicobacter pylori were found attached to these cells in tissue specimens from 12 of 30 patients ( 40 % ) . the mucous structure destroyed during the ulcerative phase regained its normal net-like structure after treatment . the ultrastructural healing process of duodenal ulcer was characterized by the presence of gastric metaplasia , by stunted microvilli of the duodenal epithelium ( p less than 0.001 vs. control group ) , and an increased number of lysosome-like bodies ( p less than 0.001 vs. control group ) of the epithelial cells . these results were independent of the type of treatment , and showed that the repair mechanisms were incomplete after a 4-wk period of treatment . 
colonoscopy during an attack of severe ulcerative colitis is a safe procedure and of great value in clinical decision making . thirty-four patients who had severe ulcerative colitis had a colonoscopic examination during the attack . the indications were resistance to therapy and/or differential diagnostic purposes . total colonoscopy was performed in 25 cases and less extensive examination in nine . biopsy was taken in 22 cases . no clinically significant complications occurred . the procedure helped us to postpone immediate surgical intervention in 19 cases . fourteen of these patients have maintenance treatment and are still well after a follow-up median time of 5 yr ( 6 months to 10 yr ) . 
extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy for complicated bile duct stones . today , common bile duct stones are extracted endoscopically . after endoscopic sphincterotomy , nearly 90 % of all stones can be removed with a dormia basket or a mechanical lithotripter . problems are encountered if there are larger stones or a duct stenosis . new conservative therapies do serve as an alternative to surgical intervention for those few patients in whom endoscopic measures have failed . stone fragmentation can be achieved by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy , and remaining fragments can be removed endoscopically . so far , authors of most reports on the successful disintegration of common bile duct stones used the dornier lithotripter . stone localization is thus achieved with x-rays , and the shock waves are generated by an underwater spark discharge . we report on our experiences and results with extracorporeal piezoelectric shock wave lithotripsy ( epl ) in 19 patients with complicated bile duct stones . with this lithotripter , stones are visualized by ultrasound , and shock waves are produced by a piezoelectric acoustic generator . fragmentation was achieved in 84.2 % , and complete stone removal in 78.9 % . these results show that piezoelectric lithotripsy is also a useful method for the treatment of complicated bile duct stones , as has already been proved for the electrohydraulic - and electromagnetic-generated shock waves systems . however , the renunciation of general anesthesia and the need for analgesia or sedation in only 25 % of the treatments render this lithotripter system attractive , especially for elderly and frail patients . 
exocrine pancreatic function in chronic liver diseases . to confirm the respective influence of chronic alcoholism and liver disease on exocrine pancreatic function in cholecystokinin secretin ( cs ) , tests were performed on patients with chronic liver cirrhosis ( lc ) and non-cirrhotic ( nlc ) disease of alcoholic ( a ) and nonalcoholic ( na ) etiology . results were compared in four subgroups ( alc , n = 26 ; anlc , n = 45 ; nalc , n = 18 ; and nanlc , n = 43 ) . volume of duodenal juice and bicarbonate output ( bo ) were increased and maximal bicarbonate concentration was decreased in alc , compared with those in normal controls . comparison of lc and nlc indicated that the volume , bo , and amylase output ( ao ) were greater in lc than in nlc of alcoholic etiology , but not in those of nonalcoholic etiology . the initial disappearance rate ( kicg ) of indocyanine green ( icg ) excretion correlated with a parameter of cs test in alcoholic liver disease ( vs. volume : r = -0.51 , p less than 0.01 vs bo : r = -0.40 , p less than 0.01 ) , but not in nonalcoholic liver disease . concurrent chronic pancreatitis with pain and definite exocrine insufficiency was observed in only one alc patient and in four anlc patients , but in none of the nonalcoholics . in alcoholic liver disease , exocrine pancreatic secretion tends to increase with severity of liver damage , but concurrence of definite chronic pancreatitis is not correlated with the severity . 
prognostic factors in alcoholic liver disease . va cooperative study group . two hundred eighty-one alcoholic patients were prospectively evaluated by clinical , biochemical , and histologic parameters during a 4-yr period to assess their prognosis . they were stratified into four categories of injury : 1 ) fatty liver ( 26 patients ) , 2 ) acute alcoholic hepatitis ( 106 ) , 3 ) cirrhosis ( 39 ) , and 4 ) cirrhosis with superimposed alcoholic hepatitis ( 111 ) . the rate of survival and variables correlating with survival varied according to the group . at 48 months , 70 % of the patients with fatty liver were alive , 58 % in the alcoholic hepatitis group , 49 % in cirrhosis , and 35 % in alcoholic hepatitis superimposed upon cirrhosis . within group one , deaths were due to causes unrelated to liver disease . in the alcoholic hepatitis group , factors significantly correlating with survival were ascites , alanine amino-transferase levels , grams of alcohol consumed , continuation of alcohol intake , and clinical severity of disease . survival in patients of group three correlated significantly with prothrombin time and histologic severity score . patients with combined cirrhosis and alcoholic hepatitis exhibited the worst prognosis , with the most significant predictors of survival being age , grams of alcohol consumed , the ratio of serum aminotransferases ( ast : alt ) and the histologic and clinical severity of the disease . although a different pattern of correlates was observed for each pathologic level of injury , knowledge of the various correlates aids in prognostic assessment . 
hemolytic anemia associated with the use of omeprazole . omeprazole is the first drug designed to block the final step in the acid secretory process within the parietal cell . it has been shown to be extremely effective in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease , reflux esophagitis , and the zollinger-ellison syndrome . although clinical experience with omeprazole is still limited , many controlled studies have established the short-term safety of this drug . we report the first case of a serious short-term adverse reaction with the use of omeprazole : hemolytic anemia . the patient developed weakness , lethargy , and shortness of breath 2 days after starting therapy with omeprazole . two weeks after the initiation of therapy , her hematocrit had decreased from 44.1 % to 20.4 % , and she had a positive direct coombs antiglobulin test and an elevated indirect bilirubin . after she discontinued the omeprazole , her hemoglobin and hematocrit gradually returned to normal . the mechanism by which omeprazole caused the patient 's hemolytic anemia is uncertain , but physicians should be alerted to this possible adverse effect . 
kawasaki-like syndrome after treatment with mesalazine . we report a patient who developed a severe hypersensitivity reaction , including rash , lymph node enlargement , fever , hepatitis , and eosinophilia , after sulphasalazine therapy . five years later , he developed a similar reaction after exposure to mesalazine , the salicylic compound of sulphasalazine . we conclude that patients with known severe systemic reaction to sulphasalazine therapy are also at risk for such a reaction when treated with a 5-asa preparation . 
congenital duodenal diaphragm : conversion of stable chronic symptoms to subacute gastric outlet obstruction by penetrating foreign body . congenital duodenal diaphragms ( cdd ) are rare lesions that usually become symptomatic and require surgery in childhood . we report a patient , who , although symptomatic since early childhood , had accommodated to the condition and finally required surgical correction in late life after an ingested foreign body traumatized the diaphragm , producing subacute gastric outlet obstruction . the condition , including the reconstruction of the precipitating event , was diagnosed endoscopically prior to surgery . 
annular pancreas as a cause of extrahepatic biliary obstruction . annular pancreas is a rare congenital abnormality that is increasingly diagnosed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) in the adult . in this population , it can present with duodenal or gastric ulceration , duodenal obstruction , pancreatitis , and , rarely , with associated congenital abnormalities . although it has been suggested that biliary obstruction may result from associated pancreatitis , such cases have not been reported ; primary extrahepatic biliary obstruction from a constricting annulus also has not been reported . we report such a case , and describe resolution of symptoms and a return to normal biochemical tests in a patient . the literature and embryology of annular pancreas are reviewed . we suggest that this entity be added to the differential diagnosis of extrahepatic biliary obstruction . 
endoscopic management of retained cystic duct stones . the finding of residual common bile duct stones after cholecystectomy is a relatively frequently encountered problem for which effective nonoperative therapy exists . retained stones in a cystic duct remnant are very rare . we present a case of multiple retained stones in a long variant cystic duct remnant following cholecystectomy and common duct exploration , which was successfully managed with endoscopic sphincterotomy and balloon extraction . 
ten years ' experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . up to january 1989 , 171 patients were trained at our center on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) , and 17 on continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis ( ccpd ) . over 10 years , we have gained 5,068 patient-months experience . patient survival was 60 % and 31 % at 5 and 10 years , respectively . in contrast , diabetics had a survival of 32 % at 5 years . major complications included 499 new episodes of peritonitis , 304 exit-site infections , 22 hernias , five bowel perforations , one hydrothorax , and three episodes of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis . our technique survival has been 62 % and 40 % at 5 and 10 years , respectively . we believe that capd is a viable dialysis technique for long-term treatment of chronic renal failure and it should be offered as an option to intermittent hemodialysis . 
group b streptococcus : an unusual cause of severe peritonitis in young children treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . peritonitis in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) patients is only rarely caused by beta-hemolytical streptococci species . we describe two young children , aged 15 months and 5 years , respectively , who presented an unusually severe course of peritonitis due to group b beta-hemolytical streptococci . this course of the disease showed a strong similarity with neonatal streptococcal septicemia . in neonates , igg2 deficiency is thought to be partly responsible for the severity of this condition . this may also be true for young children treated with capd , since igg2 deficiency has been established for children . 
umbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia : a new association ? in three fetuses , congenital intestinal atresia was associated with linear ulcerations of the umbilical cord . in two cases , hemorrhage was seen from the cord ulcer . both fetuses required emergency cesarean section for fetal distress and were born anemic . the third fetus was mildly hydropic , attributed to hemorrhage , and was stillborn . the mechanism of the association could not be determined . these cases suggest a risk of prenatal umbilical cord hemorrhage in infants with intestinal atresia . 
estrogen receptors in the external anal sphincter . inasmuch as anal competence in women is reduced after the age of 50 years , it may be dependent on effects of estrogens . in this study , samples of the external anal sphincter were analyzed for the presence of estrogen receptors and were found to be present at a median concentration of 5.0 fmol per milligram of protein ( range , 1.9 to 13 ) in women ( n = 7 ) , and 1.1 fmol per milligram of protein ( range , 0 to 3.2 ) in men ( n = 7 ) . these findings are of interest with regard to the treatment of idiopathic anal incontinence . 
longitudinal histopathologic assessment of rejection after bladder-drained canine pancreas allograft transplantation . in preparation for assessment of percutaneous biopsies in our clinical pancreas transplant program , a working knowledge of the histopathologic changes after transplantation was obtained in a longitudinal open biopsy study of 16 dogs receiving bladder-drained whole pancreas allografts . edema , extravasation of polymorphs , and lymphocytes associated with focal parenchymal injury were early , invariable , and probably nonspecific findings . the initial feature of unmodified rejection was the appearance of capillary and small vein endothelial changes with mainly perivascular inflammatory cell infiltration . acinar cell loss occurred early and was progressive , whereas islets and ducts were relatively preserved , indicating that acinar tissue may be more vulnerable to lytic necrosis when damaged . functional rejection , determined by fasting urinary amylase levels , was at a stage of extensive and irreversible necrosis . functioning grafts in immunosuppressed dogs had minor and transient endothelial changes with absence of class ii antigen staining of parenchymal cells . 
ischemic colitis . an ever-changing spectrum ? ischemic colitis , or more properly colonic ischemia , became a clear clinical entity in the past 25 years . yet , early diagnosis of this disease with its various presentations remains a difficult task . a 10-year review at our hospital identified 38 patients with colonic ischemia for comparison with the authors ' previous experience and with data from the literature . several important factors emerge : ( 1 ) twice as many cases occurred after operations ( 34 % in this series vs. 16 % in the past ) , probably because fewer and fewer spontaneous cases were hospitalized . ( 2 ) sixteen patients required operative intervention for colonic ischemia with a mortality of 62 per cent , while those treated nonoperatively had a mortality of 14 per cent . seven of eight postoperative patients who required a second operative procedure for their colonic ischemia died . a high clinical suspicion is necessary in the postoperative patient , as colonic ischemia appears to be more severe among these patients . moreover , the high incidence of associated cardiovascular disease indicates that early diagnosis , as well as monitoring of the " at-risk " patient , is needed for improvement in survival to occur . new monitoring methods , such as tonometry , may help accomplish this goal . 
effect of oxygen-free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis . sepsis remains a leading cause of death in the surgical intensive care unit ( sicu ) patient following major surgery or trauma . recent work has demonstrated that oxygen-free radicals ( ofr ) generated during sepsis contribute to the pathogenesis of this syndrome . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of various new free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis . a total of 85 male sprague-dawley rats were placed into one of the following treatment groups . control : cecal ligation and puncture ( clp ) ; pre-at : pretreatment with alpha-tocopherol ( at ) 10 mg/100 gm sc x 3 days , and 5 mg/100 gm iv prior to clp ; at : 20 mg/100 gm at time of clp and 4 hours following clp ; u74006f : ( 21-aminosteroid which inhibits lipid peroxidation ) 3 mg/kg iv at the time of and 4 hours following clp ; u78517f : ( alpha-tocopherol analogue ) 3 mg/kg at the time of and 4 hours following clp . survival was determined at various time points up to 72 hours . pretreatment with at resulted in improved survival , whereas the novel ofr scavengers u78517f and u74006f significantly improved survival and were efficacious without pretreatment . it was concluded that ofr scavengers can improve survival in sepsis . 
ileal pouch-anal anastomosis . the emory university experience . the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis has become a practical alternative to proctocolectomy for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and polyposis coli . to evaluate its success , the emory university affiliated hospital experience from february 1984 to march 1989 was retrospectively reviewed . there were a total of 50 patients identified ; 84 per cent had ulcerative colitis , and 16 per cent had polyposis coli ( familial polyposis and gardner 's syndrome ) . the majority of these patients underwent a two-stage operation , but one-third required a three-stage procedure due to difficulty in mucosal proctectomy or toxic megacolon . j-pouch construction was performed in 72 per cent of patients , s-pouch construction in 14 per cent , straight ileo-anal anastomosis in 8 per cent , and lateral isoperistaltic ileo-anal anastomosis in 6 per cent . of the 50 patients , 36 ( 72 % ) have had closure of the temporary ileostomy . fourteen patients have not had ileostomy closure due to change in diagnosis to crohn 's disease , operative complications , or ileostomy closure pending . the combined operative morbidity per patient for the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and the closure of the ileostomy was 32 per cent . this included bowel obstruction , 16 per cent ; pelvic abscess , 6 per cent ; and ileo-anal separation , 4 per cent . follow-up on patients with ileostomy closure ranged from 6 months to 4 years ( mean , 1.3 years ) . stool frequency was 5.9 stools per 24 hours at 6 months and improved with time . during the follow-up period , all patients were eventually completely continent of stool during the day , and most became completely continent of stool at night . 
aids enteropathy : occult enteric infections and duodenal mucosal alterations in chronic diarrhea objective : to investigate occult enteric infections and morphologic changes in the small intestine in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and chronic diarrhea of undefined cause . design : case-control study . setting : referral-based clinic and hospital in tertiary care center . patients : twenty-two patients with advanced hiv infection ( 19 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ aids ] , 3 with aids-related complex ) with chronic diarrhea , selected because of previously negative stool evaluations for bacterial or parasitic pathogens , were compared with 13 patients with advanced hiv infection ( 9 with aids , 4 with aids-related complex ) without diarrhea by analysis of endoscopic biopsies using light and electron microscopy , viral culture , and morphometric studies . both groups were convenience samples and had at least 7 months follow-up . measurements and main results : eleven of twenty-two patients with hiv infection and chronic diarrhea but only 1 of 13 patients without diarrhea showed occult enteric pathogens ( that is , undetected by routine studies ) after extensive evaluation of duodenal and colorectal biopsies . mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and microsporidia were the most common occult agents in study patients with diarrhea ( 5 each ) . patients with diarrhea and occult enteric infections had greater weight loss ( mean , 14.3 kg compared with 6.2 kg ; p less than 0.05 ) and shorter survival ( 1 of 11 compared with 8 of 11 still alive ; p less than 0.004 ) than those with diarrhea but no identified pathogens ( defined as " aids enteropathy " ) . duodenal morphometry showed decreased villus-to-crypt ratios because of villus atrophy and crypt elongation in hiv-infected patients both with and without diarrhea compared with normal controls ( p less than 0.001 for each ) . all three groups showed comparable frequencies of epithelial mitoses . conclusions : further endoscopic biopsy evaluation of patients with aids who had unexplained chronic diarrhea showed an occult infectious cause in half of the cases . however , altered villus and crypt architecture in advanced hiv infection was independent of the presence of diarrhea or enteric infection and therefore did not correlate with aids enteropathy . subnormal epithelial proliferation in response to injury could be a factor , but the underlying cause of the architectural changes remains obscure . we suggest that t-cell dysfunction may play a role . 
increased sympathetic outflow in cirrhosis and ascites : direct evidence from intraneural recordings . objective : to determine if central sympathetic outflow is increased in patients with cirrhosis and ascites . patients : eleven patients with cirrhosis and ascites , 8 patients with cirrhosis but without ascites , and 7 age-matched and 8 young healthy volunteers . methods : with subjects supine , direct microneurographic recordings of efferent post-ganglionic muscle sympathetic nerve activity were obtained from the peroneal nerve , and sympathetic burst frequency was compared with subjects ' blood pressure , heart rate , sodium excretion , catecholamines , and plasma renin activity . all patients with cirrhosis were studied at least 5 days after withdrawal from all medications and after 7 days of a 20 mmol/d sodium , 1-l fluid-restricted diet . age-matched volunteers were studied after 7 days of 20 mmol/d sodium intake and young healthy volunteers after 7 days of 150 mmol/d sodium intake . results : sympathetic nerve activity in ascitic patients ( 65 + / - 15 bursts/min ; mean + / - sd ) was markedly increased , whether compared with patients with cirrhosis but without ascites ( 34 + / - 16 bursts/min ; p less than 0.001 ) , age-matched healthy volunteers on similar sodium intake ( 27 + / - 22 bursts/min ; p less than 0.001 ) , or young healthy subjects ( 21 + / - 10 bursts/min ; p less than 0.001 ) . the frequency of muscle sympathetic nerve discharge was directly related to plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations , plasma renin activity , and heart rate , all of which were increased in those patients with cirrhosis and ascites , and inversely related to 24-hour urinary sodium excretion , the fractional excretion of sodium , and subjects ' pulse pressures . sympathetic nerve activity fell from 78 to 6 bursts/min in one patient after liver transplantation . conclusions : this study provides the first direct evidence that elevated plasma norepinephrine concentrations in patients with cirrhosis and ascites are due to increased central sympathetic outflow . sympathetic nerve activity is not increased in patients with cirrhosis but without ascites . because there were direct positive correlations of sympathetic nerve activity with plasma norepinephrine concentrations , plasma epinephrine concentrations , plasma renin activity , and heart rate , the increase in central sympathetic outflow in patients with cirrhosis and ascites appears generalized and not restricted to muscle nerves . the anti-natriuretic effects of parallel increases in renal and muscle sympathetic nerve activity could account for the inverse correlation between muscle sympathetic nerve activity and sodium excretion . 
do life events or depression exacerbate inflammatory bowel disease ? a prospective study . objective : to determine whether depressed mood or life events are associated with an exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease . design : a prospective study of a consecutive sample of patients with relapsing inflammatory bowel disease , followed by monthly questionnaires and periodic office visits . setting : a referral-based gastroenterology clinic at a medical school . patients : a consecutive sample of 32 patients with inflammatory bowel disease who had had at least one relapse in a 2-year period after entry into the study . measurements and main results : the social readjustment rating scale ( measuring life events ) , the beck depression inventory ( a visual analog scale for depressed mood ) and an inventory of intestinal symptoms were completed monthly by each subject with a 78 % rate of compliance . a mean of 2.2 exacerbations was seen per subject during the study period . life events were not temporally associated with changes in intestinal symptoms . significant associations were found between intestinal symptoms and the two mood scales ( p less than 0.05 for each ) , but no directionality in symptom occurrence could be detected in a time-lagged analysis . the results were similar when the months preceding exacerbations of inflammatory bowel disease were analyzed separately . conclusions : although these findings suggest that mood changed concurrently with exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease , no evidence indicated that stressful life events or depressed mood precipitated exacerbations in this study group . 
transvaginal approach for repair of rectovaginal fistulae complicating crohn 's disease . the management of rectovaginal fistulae complicating crohn 's disease is difficult and often unsatisfactory . between december 1983 and november 1988 , 13 patients with crohn 's disease underwent repair of rectovaginal fistulae via a transvaginal approach . all patients had a diverting intestinal stoma either as part of the initial step in the staged management of intractable perianal disease or concurrent with the repair of the rectovaginal fistula . each of the patients had low or mid septal fistulae ; high fistulae generally are treated transabdominally and are not the focus of this discussion . fistulae were eradicated in 12 of the 13 women and did not recur during the follow-up period , which averaged 50 months ( range , 9 to 68 months ) . the only treatment failure was a patient who had a markedly diseased colon from the cecum to the rectum and a very low-lying fistula . it is concluded that a modified transvaginal approach is an effective method for repair of rectovaginal fistulae secondary to crohn 's disease . 
alanine aminotransferase in clinical practice . a review . alanine aminotransferase is an enzyme produced mainly in the liver . when serum activity is measured , it provides a marker of hepatic disease . this review explores the biochemistry and laboratory analysis of alanine aminotransferase in terms of its significance in human health and disease . cut-off levels that define abnormality are rather arbitrary and this decreases the specificity of the test in apparently healthy patients . a small , but important , group of patients with alanine aminotransferase abnormality have underlying liver disease that may be treatable . most can be diagnosed based on history , physical examination , and biochemical-serological profiles . liver biopsy can complement the diagnostic process in selected circumstances . literature pertaining to this is critically reviewed . 
parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response in experimental acute pancreatitis . to determine changes in parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response caused by acute pancreatitis before the development of systemic toxic conditions , experimental acute pancreatitis was induced in rats with a choline-deficient , ethionine-supplemented diet . after 7 days , the rats were weighed and bled , and one kidney was assayed for 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity . several manifestations of pancreatitis were observed in rats given the diet : weight loss ( from 29.6 to 26.3 g vs that for control rats , from 29 to 52.8 g ) and lower dietary intake ( 15.5 vs 47 g per rat per 7 days ) . serum amylase levels fell from 1794 to 350 u/l in rats given the choline-deficient , ethionine-supplemented diet compared with levels of 1800 to 2100 u/l in control rats . the pancreases of rats given the choline-deficient , ethionine-supplemented diet showed degeneration , necrosis , and hemorrhaging . serum levels of calcium , phosphorus , chloride , and parathyroid hormone did not change significantly throughout the experiment . renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity was higher than in control rats ( 8.9 + / - 0.8 vs 7.6 + / - 0.6 fmol/mg of kidney per minute ) . acute pancreatitis in this experimental animal model does not alter serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone or reduce target organ responsiveness to the hormone . 
transient and distant infections alter later intraperitoneal abscess formation . transient nosocomial infections , such as line sepsis and pneumonia , are common in today 's critical care patient population . although generally well treated , the effect of these transient antigen exposures on the immune system is unclear . we have previously shown that prior intraperitoneal inoculation with live bacteria leads to increased numbers of intraperitoneal abscesses . data presented here demonstrate in a murine model that two immunizations with live escherichia coli , bacteroides fragilis , or both , administered systemically via intracardiac injection or at a focal distant site in subcutaneous tissue , significantly increased the number of mixed e coli/b fragilis intraperitoneal abscesses when induced 1 week later . further , immunization with e coli , either alone or in combination with b fragilis , increased the total number of anaerobes recovered per mouse . transient or focal sublethal infections can significantly alter an animal 's immune response to later infectious insults , particularly the formation of intraperitoneal abscesses . 
pneumonia complicating abdominal sepsis . an independent risk factor for mortality . nosocomial pneumonia ( np ) is associated with a significant mortality , 66 % in a previous retrospective study of np complicating intra-abdominal sepsis ( ias ) . we prospectively compared the outcome of np complicating ias with that of recurrent ias ( r-ias ) in the absence of np . data were collected prospectively on 300 patients with ias ; 34 patients who presented with pneumonia were excluded from the analysis ( 44 % mortality ) . one hundred seventy-one patients with no np and no r-ias ( group 1 ) had a hospital mortality of 20 % ( 34 patients ) ; 36 without np in whom r-ias developed ( group 2 ) had a 17 % mortality ( six patients ) ; and 47 with np but no r-ias ( group 3 ) had a 53 % mortality ( 25 patients ) . finally , 12 patients who had both np and r-ias suffered a 75 % mortality ( nine patients ) . we examined the relationships among the following putative risk factors and mortality : apache ( acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ) ii score ( at initial presentation with ias ) , the need for mechanical ventilatory assistance following initial treatment for peritonitis , steroid requirement , generalized peritonitis vs abscess , and the need for surgical as opposed to percutaneous treatment . using mortality as the dependent variable , group 2 vs 3 as the explanatory variable , and the risk factors as confounders , logistic regression analysis indicated that the group difference was significant after controlling for confounders . we conclude that np complicating ias is an independent risk factor associated with a significant mortality compared with r-ias . these data challenge the notion that death in ias is usually due to recurrent or persistent intra-abdominal infection . 
diagnosis and treatment of cytomegalovirus disease in transplant patients based on gastrointestinal tract manifestations . infection due to cytomegalovirus is a substantial cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients . in particular , cytomegalovirus infection has been associated with a significant detrimental effect on patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation . we are evaluating a new antiviral agent , ganciclovir 9 - [ 1,3-dihydroxy-2-2 propoxymethyl ] guanine ( dhpg ) , used in solid-organ transplant recipients who developed life-threatening cytomegalovirus infections . between march 1 , 1987 , and june 30 , 1989 , we treated 93 solid-organ transplant patients who developed tissue-invasive cytomegalovirus disease . from this group of patients we have identified 14 patients with primary gastrointestinal cytomegalovirus disease who received treatment with dhpg . tissue diagnosis was made by endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract ( 11 patients ) or colonoscopy ( three patients ) . invasive cytomegalovirus disease was identified prior to severe complications of the gastrointestinal tract in all but one patient , who suffered colonic perforation prior to treatment with dhpg and subsequently died of bacterial sepsis . while 13 of the 14 patients improved after treatment with dhpg , four patients required additional treatments for recurrent cytomegalovirus disease and recovered . no dhpg toxicity was observed . we believe treatment with dhpg is indicated in this patient population , but that further studies are indicated to fully define the impact of this recommendation on both patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation . 
the vagus nerve , gastric secretions , and their relationship to peptic ulcer disease . although peptic ulcer disease was known to the ancients , the process by which the disease was produced remained a mystery . as advances were made in medicine and science , so too were advances made in the understanding of digestion and gastrointestinal disease . the treatment of peptic ulcer disease improved as our understanding of the digestive process grew . the current surgical treatment for peptic ulcer disease follows the principals articulated by lester r. dragstedt , md , phd , which he based on his observations in the research laboratory . we present a historical perspective of the role of the vagus nerve in the control of gastric secretions and its relationship to peptic ulcer disease , placing particular emphasis on dragstedt 's contributions . 
sexual behavior before aids : the hepatitis b studies of homosexual and bisexual men . data on sexual practices , collected during studies of hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection in 1978 and 1979 , were analyzed for 4910 homosexual and bisexual men from chicago , denver , los angeles , san francisco , and st louis . data on sexual practices in 1978 showed that white participants had larger numbers of non-steady male sexual partners and engaged in oral-genital activities more frequently but were equally likely to engage in anal intercourse as black and hispanic participants . san francisco participants had more non-steady sex partners and were more likely to engage in receptive anal intercourse with non-steady partners than participants from all other sites . analysis of data on 606 hbv-antibody-negative men interviewed on three occasions in 1978 and 1979 showed no changes in risk indices for insertive and receptive anal intercourse between these years , except in san francisco where significant declines occurred in insertive anal intercourse and receptive anal intercourse without ejacultion in a small , highly select group of participants . 
recovery from disturbed colonic transit time after alcohol withdrawal . the effects of alcohol withdrawal on total and segmental transit time were evaluated in 20 chronic alcoholic subjects . after withdrawal , colorectal transit time significantly increased from 24.9 + / - 3.6 to 33.3 + / - 4.5 hours mean + / - se ( p less than 0.01 ) . this was the result of an exclusive increase in rectosigmoid transit time from 2.8 + / - 0.7 to 9.8 + / - 2.1 hours ( p less than 0.001 ) . no variations were found in right or left colon transit time . distal colonic motility is thus a crucial factor in the genesis of diarrhea in chronic alcoholic subjects . 
water and electrolyte balance after ileoanal anastomosis . water and electrolyte balance was studied in 30 patients with ileoanal anastomosis and j pouch , 10 patients with conventional ileostomy , and nine nonoperated patients with quiescent ulcerative colitis . serum electrolyte concentrations , daily urinary volume , and daily losses of sodium , potassium , and chloride were measured in all patients . daily fecal weight and daily losses of sodium and potassium were analyzed in patients with ileoanal anastomosis or conventional ileostomy . serum chloride in patients with ileoanal anastomosis was significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) than in those with conventional ileostomy or in nonoperated patients . daily urinary loss of sodium in nonoperated patients was significantly higher than in patients with ileoanal anastomosis ( p less than 0.01 ) or conventional ileostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) . daily urinary loss of chloride in patients with ileoanal anastomosis was significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) than in nonoperated patients . daily fecal loss of potassium in patients with ileoanal anastomosis was significantly higher ( p less than 0.05 ) than in those with conventional ileostomy . daily urinary volume and fecal weight did not differ significantly in patients with ileoanal anastomosis or conventional ileostomy . the present study indicates that changes in water and sodium balance after ileoanal anastomosis are similar to those after conventional ileostomy but chloride balance is more altered after ileoanal anastomosis . 
" mini-perforation " of the colon -- not all postpolypectomy perforations require laparotomy . in a 10-year experience with 4,784 consecutive colonoscopic polypectomies , the need for operative intervention in just two of seven perforations indicates that patients with specially defined , limited perforations can usually be treated nonoperatively . this specific complication , which has been termed " mini-perforation , " is generally detected within 6-24 hours of polypectomy , and is characterized by local pain and tenderness , without signs of diffuse or spreading peritoneal irritation . free intra-abdominal or retroperitoneal air on x-ray documents the actual perforation . complete resolution of symptoms within 24-48 hours confirms the diagnosis of " mini-perforation . " success depends on good bowel preparation for colonoscopy , and early recognition of perforation , with institution of bowel rest and intravenous antibiotics . the " mini-perforation " spontaneously closes , probably by omental adherence . frequent serial clinical examinations are mandatory so that frank perforation with advancing peritonitis will be promptly recognized and treated surgically . an understanding of the three levels of cautery injury to the colon wall -- " serosal burn , " " mini-perforation , " and " frank perforation " are essential in managing the complications of colonoscopic polypectomy . 
anorectal dysfunction in patients with urologic disturbance due to multiple sclerosis . anorectal function was evaluated in 11 patients with voiding dysfunction due to multiple sclerosis . in six patients with constipation , three also had symptoms of obstructed defecation and one patient was incontinent due to stercoral diarrhea . one patient was only fecal incontinent and one patient had obstructed defecation as the only symptom . three patients had no anorectal symptoms . anal manometry in the women compared with a control group revealed significant lower anal resting and squeeze pressures , although no significant difference of rectal sensation to distention with air was found . pudendal nerve terminal latencies were obtained in seven patients and were all normal . in four patients latency could not be demonstrated due to poor contraction of the sphincter on stimulation of the pudendal nerve . two of these patients were incontinent and two had both constipation and obstructed defecation . it is concluded that patients with voiding symptoms due to multiple sclerosis often reveal anorectal symptoms or motility disorders . although anal sphincter function is reduced , fecal incontinence is not prevalent in this group . the reason for this lies probably in the fact that many of the patients are constipated , thus securing fecal continence . 
the value of the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap in the treatment of complex perineal fistula . complex perineal fistula and persistent perineal sinus are difficult to treat . we describe our experience with wide excision of the diseased perineum using a combined abdominoperineal approach . ten patients were reconstructed by a rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap ( n = 7 ) , rectus abdominis muscle flap ( n = 2 ) , and omental graft ( n = 1 ) . primary healing was achieved in all cases . a median follow-up of 18 months ( range 6-54 months ) has shown no recurrence of perineal disease or associated abdominal incisional hernia . there were no perioperative deaths . we propose that the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap is indicated if large amounts of perineal skin has to be sacrificed . when less skin is removed a repair with greater omentum or rectus muscle alone is adequate . the abdominoperineal approach together with filling the residual pelvic cavity with well-vascularized tissue allows definitive treatment to be carried out in one stage . 
the ileosigmoid knot . the ileosigmoid knot ( isk ) is a rare cause of intestinal obstruction . unfamiliarity with the condition could have disastrous consequence at surgery . over the past 20 years , we have encountered seven cases . analyzing the data gathered from these , and on reviewing the literature , we found it possible to arrive at a preoperative diagnosis in two patients . four patients were women , two of whom developed the obstruction in the postpartum period . one of the males was found to have an inflamed meckel 's diverticulum included in the knotting . the symptoms and the clinical findings were nonspecific . the characteristic x-ray findings of a double closed loop obstruction , was seen in only three patients . resection of gangrenous bowel with anastomoses was feasible in four . unlike in other series , primary anastomosis of the large gut was undertaken . there were two deaths early in the series . guidelines to the management have been suggested . 
crohn 's disease and adenocarcinoma of the intestinal tract . report of four cases . four patients with intestinal adenocarcinoma complicating crohn 's disease are reported . the youngest of the four patients was a 21-year-old female with a 9-year history of crohn 's disease of the terminal ileum as well as of the entire colon . she developed mucus-producing moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the cecum . of the remaining three patients with crohn 's disease , one presented an adenocarcinoma in the ascending colon , one in the rectum and the remaining one in the duodenum . all three colorectal adenocarcinomas originated in areas of high-grade dysplasia and all four in areas with chronic transmural inflammation . the review of the literature indicates that a total of 174 small and large bowel cancers occurring in crohn 's disease have been recorded ( including the four reported herein ) . the vast majority of the reported cases have been found in the north american subcontinent . only in a few instances were bowel adenocarcinoma and crohn 's disease observed in the european continent . it is therefore remarkable that three of our four cases were seen within a period of 12 months . interestingly , six patients having colorectal adenocarcinoma in association with crohn 's disease were recently reported from a single hospital in england . the question therefore arises whether our cases and those reported recently from england are unrelated and merely coincidental or whether carcinomas are now also affecting european cd patients . if the latter is the case , the surveillance policy for patients with cd should be reconsidered at this hospital . 
colonic histoplasmosis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . report of two cases . colonic histoplasmosis is a rare entity . there have been four previous reported cases within the population of patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . because of the increasing incidence of hiv infection within regions where histoplasmosis is endemic , this condition may become more common . gastrointestinal histoplasmosis has protean clinical manifestations , and symptoms are often nonspecific . any patient with hiv infection who has unexplained gi symptoms should undergo evaluation for possible histoplasmosis . aggressive long-term amphotericin b therapy has been effective in hiv patients with histoplasmosis . resection or diversion of symptomatic colonic strictures caused by histoplasmosis may be necessary in addition to medical therapy . 
incarceration of colonoscope in an inguinal hernia . " pulley " technique of removal . because of its relative safety , colonoscopy has become an accepted diagnostic and therapeutic procedure in the evaluation of patients with colorectal disorders . many unusual complications of colonoscopy have been described , but only anecdotal reports of hernial incarceration have been published . we present a case of a right-sided hernial incarceration of the colonoscope that would not permit reduction of the hernia nor removal of the instrument by conventional means . the mechanism of incarceration , which dictates the size of hernia at risk for incarceration , is explained . the " pulley " technique , which was used to remove the instrument without surgical intervention , is described . 
a rare cause of colitis -- brucella melitensis . report of a case . documentation of gastrointestinal lesions in brucella infections is sparse . a case of brucella melitensis type 3 infection accompanied by erosive lesions of the colon , observed by endoscopy and histopathologic examination , is reported . such gastrointestinal lesions have not been described since 1934 . before 1934 only postmortem observations are recorded . 
chronic anal fissure . a new method of treatment by anoplasty . chronic anal fissure is a common condition usually treated by maximal anal dilatation or lateral subcutaneous sphincterotomy . the following method is based on a common surgical principal ; to widen a stenosed tube a longitudinal incision is made across the stenosed area and this is sutured transversely as in pyloroplasty . this method of anoplasty is simple and appears to have no resultant complications . further studies are necessary before its value can be established compared to the presently accepted methods of treatment . 
gender differences in manning criteria in the irritable bowel syndrome . the objective of this study was to determine if gender differences exist when using the manning criteria for diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome . in an outpatient setting , 61 women and 36 men with entry complaints of abdominal pain , altered bowel habits , or both underwent full evaluation by board-certified/eligible gastroenterologists who also systematically rated the presence or absence of the six manning criteria . irritable bowel syndrome was defined as the absence of an organic disease explanation for the entry complaints . this determination was made by two other board-certified gastroenterologists after patients had been in the study for 9 months . these raters were independent of the study and rated the transcripts of patients ' clinic visits , all other available clinical data from this and other clinics , all laboratory data obtained during the 9-month study period , and the results of a 9-month telephone follow-up to patients and their physicians . sixty-five percent of the study population had no organic disease explanation for the entry symptoms , thereby representing irritable bowel syndrome for this study . a similar proportion and type of organic disease and irritable bowel syndrome were experienced by men and women . for the total sample of 97 subjects , the correlation of the manning criteria with irritable bowel syndrome was 0.22 ( p less than 0.01 ) . in the 61 women , correlation between the manning criteria and irritable bowel syndrome was significant ( r = 0.47 ; p less than 0.01 ) . in the 36 men , however , the correlation was in the opposite direction , although it was not significant ( r = -0.16 ) . it was concluded that significant gender differences exist when using the manning criteria for the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome and that the manning criteria were not of diagnostic value in men . 
impairment of esophageal emptying with hiatal hernia . concurrent videofluoroscopy and manometry were used to analyze esophageal emptying during barium swallows in 22 patients with axial hiatal hernias and in 14 volunteers . subjects were divided into three groups : ( a ) volunteers with maximal phrenic ampullary length less than 2 cm ( controls ) ; ( b ) patients or volunteers with maximal ampullary/hiatal hernia length greater than or equal to 2 cm that reduced between swallows ( reducing-hernia group ) ; and ( c ) patients with hernias that did not reduce between swallows . complete esophageal emptying without retrograde flow was achieved in 86 % of test swallows in the controls , 66 % in the reducing-hernia group , and 32 % in the nonreducing-hernia group ( p less than 0.05 ) . impaired emptying in the reducing-hernia group was attributable to " late retrograde flow , " whereby barium squirted retrograde from the hernia during emptying . impaired emptying in the nonreducing-hernia group was attributable to " early retrograde flow " that occurred immediately after les relaxation . the nonreducing-hernia group also had longer acid clearance times than the controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that gastroesophageal junction competence is severely impaired in patients with nonreducing hiatal hernias , suggesting a mechanism whereby this subgroup of hiatal hernia is involved in the pathogenesis of reflux disease . 
role of leukotriene c4 in mucosal damage caused by necrotizing agents and indomethacin in the rat stomach . intragastric ethanol stimulates mucosal formation of leukotriene c4 in the rat stomach . the present study demonstrates that the increase in leukotriene c4 formation begins within 30 seconds and is maximal within 5 minutes , closely paralleled by the appearance of hemorrhagic lesions . leukotriene c4 formation returns to prechallenge levels within 3 hours , although erosions still persist . intragastric 0.2 n naoh , acidified 100 mmol/l taurocholate , 25 % nacl , or 0.6 n hcl did not consistently increase leukotriene c4 formation despite severe mucosal injury . a number of sulfhydryl-containing or sulfhydryl-blocking agents as well as metals protected against mucosal damage and simultaneously prevented the stimulation of leukotriene c4 formation induced by ethanol . none of the agents increased and some virtually abolished mucosal formation of prostaglandin e2 , indicating that gastroprotection can occur completely independently of the endogenous prostaglandin system . the leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitor mk-886 markedly suppressed gastric leukotriene c4 formation but did not protect against damage caused by ethanol , naoh , nacl , or acidified taurocholate . oral indomethacin reduced the ex vivo formation of both prostaglandin e2 and , to a lesser extent , leukotriene c4 in the gastric mucosa , inducing a shift in the balance from protective prostaglandins to proulcerogenic leukotriene c4 . pretreatment with mk-886 , however , did not significantly diminish indomethacin-induced lesions . these data suggest that leukotriene c4 is not the exclusive mediator of gastric injury caused by necrotizing agents or indomethacin . on the other hand , certain protective compounds exhibit a striking parallelism between protection and inhibition of ethanol-induced leukotriene c4 formation , suggesting that they may affect a target crucial for both mucosal injury and stimulation of 5-lipoxygenase . 
omeprazole 20 mg three days a week and 10 mg daily in prevention of duodenal ulcer relapse . double-blind comparative trial . in a double-blind , parallel-group clinical trial of 195 patients with duodenal ulcers who after a short-term study had relief of pain and healed ulcers proved endoscopically , 65 were randomized to receive 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week ( once in the morning from friday to sunday ) , 64 to receive 10 mg omeprazole once daily in the morning , and 66 to receive placebo for up to 6 months . the patients underwent repeat endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric fundic mucosa ( qualitative assessment of argyrophilic cell population ) , assessment of symptoms , and laboratory screening with measurement of basal serum gastrin concentrations at 3 and 6 months or more often if indicated by recurrence of symptoms . at 3 months , endoscopically proved ulcer relapse occurred in 16 % receiving 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week ; 21 % receiving 10 mg omeprazole daily ; and 50 % receiving placebo . at 6 months , corresponding rates were 23 % , 27 % , and 67 % with 95 % confidence intervals of difference between the placebo group and omeprazole groups of 28 % -60 % and 24 % -56 % ( p less than 0.00001 ) , respectively , and between omeprazole groups of -19 % -11 % ( ns ) . no major clinical or laboratory side effects were noted . thus both omeprazole regimens are effective and safe in preventing duodenal ulcer relapse . 
small intestinal transit in the portal hypertensive rat . the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of portal hypertension on gastrointestinal transit . portal hypertension was induced in a group of 15 rats by the staged portal vein ligation technique . a control group of 15 rats underwent a sham operation . ten days later , a 51cr-labeled krebs ' buffer solution was instilled into the duodenum and the distribution or radioactivity along the length of the small intestine was determined after 15 , 30 , and 60 minutes . portal hypertension was consistently established in the study group ; splenic pulp pressure ( mm hg , mean + / - sd , portal hypertensive vs. control ) was 20.0 + / - 3.9 vs. 12.7 + / - 3.9 , p less than 0.002 . various measures of intestinal transit revealed delayed transit in the portal hypertensive group . retention of radioactivity in the most proximal quartile of the intestine was greater [ percentage retained ( portal hypertensive vs. control ) was 57.9 + / - 17.3 vs. 31.2 + / - 15.3 , p less than 0.02 , 49.1 + / - 15.5 vs. 28.3 + / - 4.8 , p = 0.03 , and 42.4 + / - 17.6 vs. 29.0 + / - 8.8 , p = 0.08 , at 15 , 30 , and 60 minutes , respectively ] and the geometric mean of transit was located more proximally ( p less than 0.02 ) at each study interval in the portal hypertension group . it was concluded that portal hypertension is associated with delayed intestinal transit . this abnormality could predispose to bacterial overgrowth and contribute to altered digestion and absorption . 
l-glutamine stimulates jejunal sodium and chloride absorption in pig rotavirus enteritis . rotavirus enteritis is the leading cause of diarrhea in infants worldwide . a research priority of the world health organization is to develop oral rehydration solutions containing amino acids or other additives that will stimulate intestinal absorption more efficiently than the current glucose-based oral rehydration solutions . glutamine is the principal metabolic fuel of the small bowel and a putative stimulator of mucosal repair . this report describes the transport response to mucosal l-glutamine following intestinal injury caused by porcine rotavirus . peak symptoms and mucosal damage were observed 2-7 days after oral rotavirus inoculation . in vitro transport studies of the maximally injured region , the midjejunum ( 80 % reduction in lactase ) , surprisingly , showed transport responses to l-glutamine ( 30 mmol/l ) and l-alanine ( 30 mmol/l ) that were similar qualitatively and quantitatively to those observed in control tissue . subsequent application of mucosal d-glucose ( 30 mmol/l ) caused additional stimulation of electrogenic na + transport , but the response to glucose was blunted ( p less than 0.05 ) in the infected tissues . glutamine and alanine enhanced na + absorption to a similar degree ( 2-2 .5 mueq.cm-2 . h-1 ) , but glutamine stimulated equal amounts of electrogenic and electroneutral nacl absorption , whereas alanine had no significant effect on net cl - flux . glutamine is a potentially useful substrate for investigation in oral rehydration solutions for infant diarrhea . 
increased uptake of bromodeoxyuridine by hepatocytes from early stage of primary biliary cirrhosis . the relationship between dna synthesis activities of hepatocytes in biopsied specimens and liver volume was studied in various stages of primary biliary cirrhosis using an in vitro bromodeoxyuridine ( a thymidine analogue ) - anti-bromodeoxyuridine reaction and computed tomography . the mean bromodeoxyuridine ( + / - se ) labeling index for 10 patients in an early histological stage ( stage i , 4 , and stage ii , 6 , 3.4 % + / - 0.4 % ) of primary biliary cirrhosis was 17 times that for 6 control subjects ( 0.2 % + / - 0.1 % , p less than 0.001 ) , and was significantly higher than that for 19 female patients with chronic aggressive hepatitis ( 0.9 % + / - 0.2 % , p less than 0.001 ) , 14 compensated cirrhotic patients of viral origin ( all female , 1.1 % + / - 0.3 % , p less than 0.01 ) , and 5 patients with stage iii primary biliary cirrhosis ( 0.5 % + / - 0.1 % , p less than 0.001 ) . the mean ( + / - se ) liver volume in the early stage of primary biliary cirrhosis ( 1225 + / - 40 cm3 ) was about 1.5 times that in control subjects ( 835 + / - 42 cm3 , p less than 0.001 ) . these results suggest that liver volume has already become large in the early stage of primary biliary cirrhosis perhaps because of markedly increased dna synthesis in hepatocytes . 
glucose and fat metabolism during short-term starvation in cirrhosis . to evaluate the metabolic consequences of short-term ( i.e. , less than 24 hours ) starvation , glucose and fat metabolism were studied in eight healthy subjects and in eight patients with stable cirrhosis after 16-hour and again after 22-hour starvation by 3 - [ 3h ] glucose and [ 14c ] palmitate turnover and by indirect calorimetry . although patients and controls showed significant increases in free fatty acid concentration ( respectively , 48 % + / - 12 % and 53 % + / - 17 % ) and turnover ( 55 % + / - 14 % and 71 % + / - 21 % ) during short-term starvation , the values after 16 - and after 22-hour starvation were higher in cirrhosis . fat oxidation was enhanced in the patients , but did not increase during fasting in contrast to controls ( increase 19 % + / - 17 % , p less than 0.05 ) . net glucose oxidation was decreased in postabsorptive cirrhotics ( p less than 0.05 ) . although postabsorptive glucose turnover was not different from controls , starvation induced a greater decrease in glucose turnover in the patients ( 25 % + / - 3 % vs. 10 % + / - 3 % , p less than 0.05 ) . this was not reflected in plasma glucose concentrations . in conclusion , the effects of starvation on glucose and fat metabolism are enhanced in cirrhosis ; fasting hypoglycemia is prevented by decreased use of glucose . it remains to be established whether these changes are merely explained by defective liver function , per se . 
ascites increases the resting energy expenditure in liver cirrhosis . the purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of ascites on the energy metabolism of patients with liver cirrhosis . the resting energy expenditure was determined in 10 patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites of moderate or large volume . the resting energy expenditure measurement was performed using indirect calorimetry and the resting energy expenditure predictive value was calculated with the harris-benedict equation , both before and after removal of ascitic fluid by paracentesis . metabolic stress factors were absent in all cases . after an interval of 11.2 + / - 7.7 days between measurements , a weight loss of 16.6 + / - 10.3 kg was observed with paracentesis . the resting energy expenditure measured by indirect calorimetry showed a statistically significant decrease from 1682 + / - 291 to 1523 + / - 240 kcal/day ( p less than 0.005 ) after removal of ascites . the repeatability of our indirect calorimetry method only allowed for the analysis of the results in 4 of 10 patients in whom ascites removal produced a consistent decrease in resting energy expenditure . there were no statistically significant differences between the measurements obtained by indirect calorimetry and those provided by the harris-benedict equation , but the latter had a moderate reliability in predicting the real resting energy expenditure of every patient . our results suggest that , far from being an inert volume , ascites may be associated , at least in some patients , with an increased resting energy expenditure and therefore accelerate the appearance of protein energy malnutrition with corresponding complications . 
high-protein ascites in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . diseases of the liver or peritoneum resulting in ascites have been infrequently reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . since 1985 , eight noncirrhotic patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome presenting with new onset high-protein ascites have been evaluated . all but one patient had nondiagnostic paracentesis studies . laparoscopy with biopsy of identified abnormalities or percutaneous omental biopsy were diagnostic in four patients . non-hodgkin 's lymphoma was the cause in three patients , and disseminated cryptococcosis occurred in one patient . in the four other patients , chronic nonspecific peritonitis was found at laparoscopy ; follow-up of these latter patients , including exploratory laparotomy in one patient and autopsy in two patients , disclosed no specific cause . patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and high-protein ascites of uncertain etiology should undergo directed peritoneal evaluation as a potentially treatable disorder may be found . however , despite extensive evaluation , a subset of patients in whom no specific cause can be identified still remains . 
expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules in the liver of patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection . virus-specific t-cell responses are believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of liver cell injury secondary to hepatitis b virus infection . in this study , liver biopsy specimens from patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection were analyzed for expression of two major pathways of adhesion used by cytotoxic t cells to interact with target cells . the lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 was found preferentially expressed on hepatocytes of patients with active hepatitis b virus replication , whereas the expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on hepatocytes seemed more closely related with inflammatory activity . adhesion molecules were also highly expressed on t lymphocytes found in areas of piecemeal and spotty necrosis , indicating the presence of antigen-specific " memory " t cells at the site of hepatocellular injury . this study suggests that the expression of the lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 on hepatocytes may be important for viral elimination . the coordinate expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 may regulate inflammatory response and enhance viral antigen presentation to t cells . conversely , the absence of hepatocyte adhesion molecules might be a favorable factor for viral persistence . 
interferon alfa therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection . effects on hepatitis b virus dna in the liver . pretrial and posttrial liver biopsy samples from 124 adult patients who participated in two randomized , controlled trials of interferon alfa therapy for chronic hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection were analyzed to determine the effects of interferon on the replication of hbv in the liver . replicative forms of hbv dna were detected in the pretrial biopsy samples from all and posttrial biopsy samples from 74 % treated patients and 86 % controls . replicative forms of hbv dna were detected in the posttrial biopsy samples from all patients who remained positive for hepatitis b e antigen and hbv dna in the serum , in 77 % treated patients and 80 % controls who cleared hbv dna in the serum but who remained positive for hepatitis b e antigen , but in only 19 % treated patients and 40 % controls who cleared hbv dna as well as hepatitis b e antigen in the serum . serum alanine aminotransferase levels were significantly lower in patients whose posttrial biopsies did not contain replicative forms of hbv dna . in summary , we demonstrated that in most patients with chronic hbv infection treated with interferon alfa , serological response was associated with the disappearance of replicative forms of hbv dna in the liver . 
prognosis of wilsonian chronic active hepatitis . twenty of 320 patients with wilson 's disease initially presented with chemical and laboratory features of chronic active hepatitis , confirmed histologically in 17 . when first seen , cirrhosis was present in all 20 and was complicated by ascites and/or jaundice in 11 . within 1 week to 8 years of the onset of over liver disease the diagnosis of wilson 's disease was established , and treatment with d-penicillamine was promptly initiated in 19 patients . one man refused treatment and died 4 months later . treated patients received d-penicillamine or trientine for a total of 264 patient-years ( median , 14 patient-years ) . abnormal water retention , for which salt restriction and diuretics were added to penicillamine or trientine , disappeared in all but 1 of the patients so affected . symptomatic improvement and virtually normal levels of serum albumin , bilirubin , aspartate aminotransferase , and alanine aminotransferase followed within 1 year in the majority of subjects . one woman died after 9 months of treatment . two patients , who became noncompliant with the therapeutic regimen after 9 and 17 years of successful pharmacological treatment , required liver transplants . these results indicate that the prognosis of specifically treated wilsonian chronic active hepatitis is very good in spite of the presence of cirrhosis . 
characterization of a rat pancreatic secretory protein associated with pancreatitis . a new protein was purified from the pancreatic juice of rats with acute pancreatitis . that protein , not detectable in control animals , was called " pancreatitis-associated protein . " it was first observed 6 hours after induction of experimental pancreatitis with taurocholate or cerulein , reached maximal levels of 45 micrograms/mg protein in zymogen granules and 1.8 micrograms/mg protein in pancreatic tissue during the acute phase ( 48 hours ) , and disappeared during recovery ( day 5 ) . it was never detected in spleen , liver , kidney , heart , or lung . the detection limit of the assay system was 12 ng/mg protein , so that pancreatitis-associated protein levels increased at least 100-fold in pancreatic tissue during the acute phase . the molecular weight ( 12,000 ) and isoelectric point ( 8.2 ) were determined by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis . subcellular fractionation and immunoelectron microscopy showed that the protein was synthesized on the rough endoplasmic reticulum and stored in zymogen granules before being secreted , similar to other pancreatic secretory proteins . immunoblotting and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed that the same protein was synthesized upon induction of pancreatitis by cerulein infusion , by retrograde injection of bile acids , or pancreatitis induced by pancreatic surgery . the pancreatitis-associated protein is therefore an acute-phase protein that differs from other proteins of that family because of its exocrine nature . 
incidence of gallstones in a danish population . five-year incidence of gallstone disease was assessed by ultrasonography in an age - and sex-stratified random population of danish origin aged 30 , 40 , 50 , and 60 years . the response rate was 82.8 % ( 2987/3608 ) . nonrespondents did not differ from respondents regarding variables concerning gallstone disease . the 5-year incidence of gallstone disease in men aged 30 , 40 , 50 , and 60 years was 0.3 % , 2.9 % , 2.5 % , and 3.3 % . corresponding figures in women were 1.4 % , 3.6 % , 3.1 % , and 3.7 % . the incidence of gallstones was significantly higher in subjects aged 45 years or more compared with those aged 35 years . the sex difference in gallstone incidence decreased with increasing age . a significantly higher incidence of gallstone disease was found among subjects with former polyps in the gallbladder . spontaneous disappearance of gallstones was seen in 4.5 % . 
the role of continued drinking in loss of portal perfusion after distal splenorenal shunt . fifty percent of patients with alcoholic cirrhosis who undergo distal splenorenal shunting for variceal bleeding lose portal perfusion within 1 year . although it was previously considered that this loss of portal flow was irrevocable , the present study shows that with resolution of alcoholic hepatitis , portal perfusion can be restored . a 34-year-old patient with alcoholic liver disease and a distal splenorenal shunt lost portal perfusion 1 year after the operation . he had continued to drink alcohol and had high sinusoidal pressure . following forced abstinence over the next 2 years , his sinusoidal pressure fell , liver volume decreased , results of liver biopsy improved , and portal perfusion was restored . shunt patency was documented , and the same collaterals from the portal vein to the shunt could still be visualized as had been seen when portal flow was absent . restoration of portal perfusion was attributed to decreased intrahepatic resistance secondary to abstinence from alcohol . a return to drinking in the next 9 months led to alcoholic hepatitis and once again loss of portal perfusion . this study places emphasis on increased intrahepatic resistance rather than the development of portal-to-shunt collaterals as important in the loss of portal flow in such patients . 
hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation . a newly identified condition . a newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described . in the affected family , at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax ; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life . three members of the family have been studied in detail . each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night . constipation was an associated symptom , in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation . clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance . the maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity . anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter . two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy ; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain . the hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes , consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis . in vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline , isoprenaline , carbachol , dimethylpiperazinium , and electrical-field stimulation . immunohistochemical studies for substance p , calcitonin gene-related peptide , galanin , neuropeptide y , and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue . a specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized . 
microvillus inclusion disease . in vitro jejunal electrolyte transport . microvillus inclusion disease is an inherited intestinal brush border membrane defect that causes severe fluid and electrolyte malabsorption . in an infant with microvillus inclusion disease ( confirmed by electron microscopic evaluation of rectal , jejunal , and gallbladder mucosae ) , basal stool output was massive ( greater than 125 ml . kg-1 . day-1 ) and was not altered by treatment with clonidine or octreotide . a proximal jejunostomy with mucous fistula was placed , allowing separation of proximal from distal tract outputs ( 60 ml . kg-1 . day-1 and 100 ml . kg-1 . day-1 , respectively ) . a 10-cm jejunal segment was excised during surgery and mounted in ussing chambers for determination of transepithelial na + and cl fluxes . compared with intestine of normal infants , this infant 's epithelium showed transmural conductance and unidirectional ion fluxes that were only 30 % of normal . with respect to both na + and cl , the excised jejunum was in a net secretory state . theophylline ( 5 mmol/l ) increased net cl secretion slightly . in response to mucosal d-glucose ( 30 mmol/l ) , jejunal mucosal-to-serosal na + flux doubled . in the infant , glucose-electrolyte solution administered intrajejunally did not significantly change stool output , suggesting that all of the solution ( 40 ml/kg ) was absorbed . subtotal enterocolectomy , in theory , could have decreased purging by 66 % in this infant with microvillus inclusion disease , but diarrhea would still have been significant . 
primary biliary cirrhosis : paradigm or paradox for autoimmunity . primary biliary cirrhosis has been classified as a model autoimmune disease based on striking defects in immune regulation and the presence of autoantibodies to mitochondria . until recently the significance and definition of mitochondrial autoreactivity was unknown . since 1987 , there has been a vast improvement in the understanding and definition of the biochemical and molecular target autoantigens . the cloning of complementary dnas for mitochondrial antigens has led to the identification of three enzymes of the 2-oxo-acid dehydrogenase family as the targets of the autoantibodies to mitochondria in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis . the major reactive autoantigen is the e2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase . immunodominant sites on pyruvate dehydrogenase e2 ( autoepitopes ) have been mapped and have been shown to be the site of attachment of the functionally important lipoic acid prosthetic group . the autoepitope for the other enzymes probably occupies an equivalent site on the enzyme . the availability and definition of these mitochondrial autoepitopes have allowed specific questions to be addressed relating to the processing and targeting of these autoantigens as well as further studies on mechanisms of immunopathology . similarly , the availability of well-defined autoantigens could contribute to the development of valid animal models in addition to the already described reproduction of the biliary ductular lesions by transfer of peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis into severe combined immunodeficient mice . such models will facilitate specific study of the role of major histocompatibility complex expression and the characterization of t-cell reactivity . thus , primary biliary cirrhosis is a key example of significant progress in autoimmunity being made by use of recombinant dna technology . 
electrophysiology of motor pathways for sphincter control in multiple sclerosis . the central and peripheral motor pathways serving striated sphincter muscle function were studied using cortical and lumbar transcutaneous electrical stimulation , pudendal nerve stimulation and sphincter electromyography in 23 patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , and sphincter disturbance , including incontinence of urine or faeces , urinary voiding dysfunction , or constipation . the central motor conduction time was significantly increased in the ms group compared to controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . damage to both the upper and lower motor neuron pathways can contribute to sphincter disturbance in ms. the latter may be due to coexisting pathology or to involvement of the conus medullaris by ms. 
prognostic significance of proteinuria one year after onset of diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome . we examined the prognostic value of changes in the amount of proteinuria , measured as protein/creatinine ratios in early-morning urine samples , in 40 children who had had diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome . one year after diagnosis , 87 % of those who seemed to have fully recovered had normal urinary protein/creatinine ratios , compared with none of those with poor outcomes ( p less than 0.001 ) . none of those with poor outcomes achieved normal protein/creatinine ratios during follow-up to a maximum of 5 1/2 years , but 93 % of those who made a full clinical recovery no longer had proteinuria . measurement of the protein/creatinine ratio in an early-morning sample of urine is a simple , cost-effective , and noninvasive means of monitoring the progress of patients with diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome , provided that a technique sensitive at low protein concentrations is employed . 
prostaglandin e2-induced diarrhea in mice : importance of colonic secretion . the present study has investigated the basis for induction of diarrhea by prostaglandin ( pg ) e2 in mice . when given i.p. , pge2 induced a dose - and time-dependent diarrhea ; the shortest post-treatment time for diarrhea onset was approximately 7 min , at a pge2 dose of 200 micrograms/kg . at this dose , pge2 also produced accumulation of fluid in the small intestine and in the colon ( enteropooling ) . the enteropooling reached its maximum by 9 min and did not decrease until approximately 11 min ( i.e. , 2 to 4 min after the mean time for diarrhea onset ) . pge2 treatment altered neither gastric emptying nor gastrointestinal propulsion , but strongly enhanced the expulsion of a glass bead from the colon ( i.e. , decreased the time to bead expulsion ) . the shortest time to expulsion of the glass bead was observed at 200 micrograms/kg i.p. the induction of diarrhea by pge2 was unaffected by cecectomy , or sham-cecectomy , but the dose-response curve for time to onset of diarrhea by i.p. pge2 was displaced to the right in animals with ligations of the ileo-ceco-colonic ( icc ) junctions . the intraluminal fluid accumulation in the colon , evaluated in mice with icc ligations , was increased by pge2 administration within 2 min and remained greater than in vehicle-treated animals until the onset of diarrhea . the stimulation of colonic bead expulsion produced by i.p. pge2 in control mice was not observed in animals with acute icc ligations , even at i.p. doses up to 800 micrograms/kg . 
hepatic portal venous gas identified by computed tomography in a patient with blunt abdominal trauma : a case report . an abdominal computed tomographic ( ct ) scan in a middle-aged man injured in a high-speed motor vehicle accident demonstrated the presence of portal venous gas . findings on initial peritoneal lavage were entirely negative . exploratory celiotomy performed because of increasing abdominal pain and leukocytosis revealed gangrene of the cecum . this report illustrates the importance of the finding of portal venous gas on ct scan in patients with blunt abdominal trauma . 
treatment of refractory oral candidiasis with fluconazole . a case report . we describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who had persistent oral esophageal pseudomembranous candidiasis clinically refractory to nystatin , clotrimazole , and ketoconazole . in vitro resistance to clotrimazole was demonstrated as well . the patient received temporary relief with intravenous amphotericin b therapy , but this was associated with serious adverse effects , including transfusion-requiring anemia , azotemia , and severe thrombophlebitis . despite two courses of intravenous amphotericin b therapy , the patient 's highly symptomatic , recurrent oral and esophageal candidiasis continued . the patient was then treated with fluconazole and obtained immediate relief without associated adverse effects . 
enteroclysis and small bowel series : comparison of radiation dose and examination time . respective radiation doses and total examination and fluoroscopy times were compared for 50 patients ; 25 underwent enteroclysis and 25 underwent small bowel series with ( n = 17 ) and without ( n = 8 ) an examination of the upper gastrointestinal ( gi ) tract . for enteroclysis , the mean skin entry radiation dose ( 12.3 rad [ 123 mgy ] ) and mean fluoroscopy time ( 18.4 minutes ) were almost 1 1/2 times greater than those for the small bowel series with examination of the upper gi tract ( 8.4 rad [ 84 mgy ] ; 11.4 minutes ) and almost three times greater than those for the small bowel series without upper gi examination ( 4.6 rad [ 46 mgy ] ; 6.3 minutes ) . however , the mean total examination completion time for enteroclysis ( 31.2 minutes ) was almost half that of the small bowel series without upper gi examination ( 57.5 minutes ) and almost four times shorter than that of the small bowel series with upper gi examination ( 114 minutes ) . the higher radiation dose of enteroclysis should be considered along with the short examination time , the age and clinical condition of the patient , and the reported higher accuracy when deciding on the appropriate radiographic examination of the small bowel . 
gallbladder perforation and bile leakage : percutaneous treatment . three patients with spontaneous gallbladder perforation and one with an iatrogenic bile leak causing bile peritonitis were treated successfully by means of percutaneous catheter drainage . three patients had cholelithiasis as the cause of perforation ; the fourth patient had previously undergone gallstone dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether lavage and developed bile peritonitis a few hours after removal of the catheter . in three patients , a percutaneous cholecystostomy catheter provided successful decompression ; in the fourth patient , drainage was performed with a percutaneous sump catheter in the subhepatic space adjacent to the gallbladder . no specific complications occurred . follow-up was performed at 1 , 12 , 22 , and 59 months , respectively . to date , one of the four patients has undergone elective cholecystectomy ( 1 month after drainage ) . the remainder of the patients are asymptomatic . this preliminary experience suggests that the severe complication of gallbladder perforation and bile leakage may be treated , at least temporarily , by means of percutaneous drainage . 
peptic ulcer disease : ct evaluation . the authors retrospectively describe the computed tomographic ( ct ) findings in 35 patients with peptic ulcer disease . three of eight patients with gastritis or duodenitis had bowel-wall thickening . ten of the remaining 27 patients had ct evidence of ulcer perforation ( n = 2 ) or penetration ( n = 8 ) , four cases of which were unsuspected clinically . both patients with acute free perforation had pneumoperitoneum , and one showed free extravasation of orally administered contrast material . the precise site of perforation could not be established in either case with ct . the eight patients with ulcer penetration had ct evidence of bowel-wall thickening ( n = 3 ) and inflammatory changes in adjacent soft tissues and organs ( n = 8 ) , including the pancreas ( n = 4 ) , liver ( n = 1 ) , and lesser omentum ( n = 1 ) . ulcer craters were seen in only two . the ct findings of penetration can mimic other disease processes . ct was not useful in detecting uncomplicated peptic ulcer disease . 
diagnostic fine-needle puncture of the gallbladder with us guidance from february 1988 to january 1990 , 118 fine-needle diagnostic punctures of the gallbladder ( dpg ) were performed under continuous ultrasound ( us ) guidance on symptomatic patients with gallstones . the first attempt at gallbladder puncture and aspiration was successful in every patient with use of a 22-gauge needle and continuous us visualization of the needle tip . the aspirated volume varied between 3 and 88 ml ( average + / - standard deviation , 25.0 ml + / - 15.3 ) . biliary analysis revealed an elevation of the cholesterol saturation index in patients with cholesterol gallstones ( attenuation at computed tomographic examination of 50 hu or less ) relative to that in patients with pigment stones ( attenuation more than 50 hu ) ( 1.3 + / - 0.2 vs 1.0 + / - 0.1 , p less than .05 ) . the nucleation time was prolonged in patients with pigment stones ( 19.3 days + / - 3.5 vs 1.8 days + / - 0.8 for patients with cholesterol stones , p less than .001 ) . all patients remained hospitalized for 24 hours after dpg and were reexamined on an outpatient basis at 1 and 3 months thereafter . no complications were detected during either short-term observation or long-term follow-up . the authors conclude that dpg is a safe and valuable technique in the diagnostic work-up of gallstone patients to establish their suitability for nonoperative treatment . 
asialoglycoprotein receptor function in benign liver disease : evaluation with mr imaging . an arabinogalactan-coated ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide ( ag-uspio ) preparation specific for asialoglycoprotein ( asg ) receptors on hepatocytes was used as a magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging contrast agent in the evaluation of a spectrum of benign liver diseases in animal models . the activity of hepatocyte asg receptors , which directly reflects liver function , was directly assessed by measuring liver relaxation times in vitro and mr signal intensity in vivo . the following measurements allowed three-dimensional assessment of liver function : ( a ) liver relaxation time , ( b ) native mr signal intensities of liver , ( c ) response of liver to the ag-uspio probe ( percentage decrease of liver signal intensity after intravenous administration of 10 mumol/kg of ag-uspio : normal liver 55 % , fatty liver 57 % , acute hepatitis 36 % , chronic hepatitis 29 % , and cirrhosis 46 % ) , and ( d ) redistribution of hepatocyte-specific ag-uspio to the spleen ( present in hepatitis and cirrhosis but not in normal liver and fatty liver ) . the results of this study indicate that cellular hepatic abnormalities can be detected and quantitated with mr receptor imaging . 
percutaneous rotational contact biliary lithotripsy : initial clinical results with the kensey nash lithotrite . the percutaneous rotary lithotrite introduces a new concept to fragmentation and percutaneous removal of gallstones . a fluid vortex is generated , pulling calculi into a high-speed blade that fragments stones to predominantly under 500 microns . the results of treating the first 10 patients with this instrument reveal that large stone burdens as well as small stones ( 2-3 mm ) of any composition can be removed if the gallbladder is of sufficient size to accommodate the six-pronged basket . rotation times of 7-39 minutes were required . nine of 10 procedures were completed ; access was lost in one case . one major complication occurred . at repeat oral cholecystography , the gallbladder was visualized after 3-6 weeks in eight of the nine patients . ursodeoxycholic acid was administered from 3 to 12 months to five patients with either residual stones or aggregates . the hospital stay ranged from 48 to 72 hours . all patients ( except the patient who underwent surgery ) resumed light activity in 3-4 days and strenuous activity and full diet within 3 weeks . 
extrauterine findings of ectopic pregnancy of transvaginal us : importance of echogenic fluid . transvaginal ultrasound ( us ) studies of 232 consecutive patients with positive serum pregnancy tests who were considered to be at risk for ectopic pregnancy were prospectively evaluated to determine the significance of various extrauterine findings , including echogenic fluid in the cul-de-sac . all patients were found to have a surgically proved ectopic gestation ( group 1 , 68 patients [ 29.3 % ] ) , reliable evidence of intrauterine pregnancy at initial transvaginal us ( group 2 , 83 patients [ 35.8 % ] ) , or no evidence of pregnancy at initial transvaginal us , but subsequent proof of an intrauterine pregnancy ( group 3 , 81 patients [ 34.9 % ] ) . adnexal findings were demonstrated in 45 ( 66 % ) group 1 patients , including a living extrauterine embryo in 10 ( 15 % ) , an extrauterine gestational sac in 21 ( 31 % ) , and an adnexal mass in 14 ( 21 % ) . intraperitoneal fluid was detected in 43 ( 63 % ) group 1 patients and in 81 ( 31 % ) group 3 patients . echogenic fluid was the only abnormal finding at us in 10 ( 15 % ) group 1 patients and added confidence to the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy in many others . echogenic fluid correlated with hemoperitoneum at the time of surgery . the presence of echogenic fluid indicates a high risk for ectopic pregnancy in women referred with this clinical indication . 
antropyloric muscle thickness at us in infants : what is normal ? the authors reviewed the ultrasonographic ( us ) images and medical records of 145 consecutive infants who were seen for evaluation of the upper gastrointestinal tract because of chronic vomiting and/or regurgitation . at us , the antropyloric muscle of each patient was measured in the midlongitudinal plane . on the basis of this measurement , the patients were divided into the following categories : group 1 ( 1-2 mm ; 99 patients ) , group 2 ( greater than or equal to 3 mm ; 40 patients ) , and group 3 ( 2 - less than 3 mm ; six patients ) . patients in group 1 were considered to have normal antropyloric muscle thickness , those in group 2 had abnormal thickness , and those in group 3 had muscle thickness that was not definitely normal or abnormal . the final clinical diagnoses for all of the infants in the three groups confirmed the authors ' initial impressions that antropyloric muscle thickness of less than 2 mm was anatomically normal , muscle measuring 3 mm or greater was abnormal and diagnostic for pyloric stenosis , and muscle from 2 to less than 3 mm was abnormal but not specifically diagnostic for pyloric stenosis . two of the six patients in group 3 eventually were diagnosed as having pyloric stenosis ; thus , the authors believe that only those patients with antropyloric muscle less than 2 mm thick should be considered unequivocably normal . 
effect of portasystemic shunts on subsequent transplantation of the liver . portasystemic ( ps ) shunts have been regarded as a relative contraindication to hepatic transplantation ( ht ) because of the potential for increased technical difficulties during the transplant operation . we compared operative blood loss , morbidity and mortality in 27 patients with ps shunts and 147 patients with no shunts ( ns ) who underwent ht . the ps shunt group included 12 portocaval ( pc ) , eight mesocaval , four central splenorenal and four distal splenorenal shunts . the ps shunt and ns groups were similar with respect to age , preoperative medical status and abo blood group matching between donors and recipients . there were no significant differences in the mean ( plus or minus s.d. ) intraoperative blood transfusion ( 9.1 + / - 7.6 versus 9.2 + / - 11.0 units ) , mean ( plus or minus s.d. ) duration of anesthesia ( 8.1 + / - 1.4 versus 7.8 + / - 1.5 hours ) and operative mortality ( 7 versus 11 per cent ) between the ps shunt and ns groups , respectively . complications of the biliary tract were significantly higher in the ps shunt group ( 22.0 versus 5.4 per cent , p less than 0.01 ) but they did not increase the mortality rate . we conclude that a prior ps shunt should not influence the decision to accept patients for ht . ps shunts remain a reasonable surgical option for patients with cirrhosis and variceal hemorrhage ( refractory to sclerotherapy ) who , by virtue of good hepatic function , do not merit immediate ht . 
modified technique of pringle 's maneuver in resection of the liver . crushing of the hepatic parenchyma with hepatic clamps to minimize blood loss during resection of the liver leads to mechanical damage of hepatocytes . pringle 's maneuver may precipitate liver failure by hepatic warm ischemia as well . therefore , we controlled bleeding from the surface of the resection by using light compression on the hepatic parenchyma with a band while applying a hepatic arterial clamp at the hepatic hilus . this vascular control method can be done because the portal pressure is about one-tenth of the hepatic artery pressure and provides an efficient and harmless transection of the liver . 
late cholangitis after successful surgical repair of biliary atresia . bacterial cholangitis is a frequent complication of successful surgical repair of biliary atresia , occurring in 93 % of patients before the age of 1 year , but thought to be rare after 2 years of age . among 76 children free of jaundice more than 5 years after operation , four presented with late cholangitis ( 7 to 13.5 years old ) , consisting of fever , jaundice , and abdominal pain with biochemical features of an inflammatory process and cholestasis . liver biopsy specimens consistently demonstrated histological features of cholangitis , growth of microorganism , or both . cholangitis subsided spontaneously in one patient or in response to intravenous administration of antibiotics . cholangiography consistently demonstrated biliary abnormalities but no definite obstruction to the bilioenteric anastomosis . all the children had good hepatic function 3 weeks to 4 years after the episode of cholangitis . these results suggest that cholangitis may occur several years after surgery but does not seem to alter prognosis . 
iron and the liver . iron is essential for life , but iron overload is toxic and potentially fatal . the liver is a major site of iron storage and is particularly susceptible to injury from iron overload , especially when ( as in primary hemochromatosis ) the iron accumulates in hepatocytes . iron can be taken up by the liver in several forms and by several pathways including : ( 1 ) receptor-mediated endocytosis of diferric or monoferric transferrin or ferritin , ( 2 ) reduction and carrier-facilitated internalization of iron from transferrin without internalization of the protein moiety of transferrin , ( 3 ) electrogenic uptake of low molecular weight , non-protein bound forms of iron , and ( 4 ) uptake of heme from heme-albumin , heme-hemopexin , or hemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes . normally , pathway 2 is probably the major one for uptake of iron by hepatocytes . iron is stored in the liver in the cores of ferritin shells and as hemosiderin , an insoluble product derived from iron-rich ferritin . iron in hepatocytes stimulates translation of ferritin mrna and represses transcription of dna for transferrin and transferrin receptors . the major pathologic effects of chronic hepatic iron overload are : ( 1 ) fibrosis and cirrhosis , ( 2 ) porphyria cutanea tarda , and ( 3 ) hepatocellular carcinoma . although precise pathogenetic mechanisms remain unknown , iron probably produces these and other toxic effects by increasing oxidative stress and lysosomal lability . vigorous efforts at diagnosis and treatment of iron overload are essential since the pathologic effects of iron are totally preventable by early vigorous iron removal and prevention of iron re-accumulation . 
sulphasalazine and prednisone compared with sulphasalazine for treating active crohn disease . a double-blind , randomized , multicenter trial . objective : to determine whether sulphasalazine plus prednisone is more effective than sulphasalazine alone in treating active crohn disease . design : randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . setting : multicenter trial in one university hospital and nine general hospitals . patients : patients with active crohn disease and a van hees activity index of 140 or more . of 71 patients who were randomly assigned , 60 completed treatment and were analyzed . interventions : for 16 weeks , 30 patients received sulphasalazine , 6 g/d ( or 4 g/d if adverse effects occurred ) and prednisone , 30 mg/d initially . prednisone therapy was tapered in increments of 5 mg/2 wk to 10 mg/d after 8 weeks . thirty other patients received sulphasalazine and a placebo . measurements and main results : in the first 6 weeks of treatment , the van hees activity index decreased to a median of 70 % ( interquartile range , 57 % to 81 % ) of the initial value in patients treated with sulphasalazine and prednisone and to a median of 87 % ( interquartile range , 70 % to 94 % ) in patients treated with sulphasalazine alone ( p = 0.001 ) . in the last 4 weeks of treatment , the corresponding figures were 63 % ( interquartile range , 40 % to 75 % ) and 70 % ( interquartile range , 54 % to 90 % ) ( p = 0.10 ) . the crohn 's disease activity index decreased in the first 6 weeks to a median of 65 % ( interquartile range , 57 % to 86 % ) in patients receiving sulphasalazine and prednisone and to a median of 75 % ( interquartile range , 58 % to 101 % ) in patients receiving sulphasalazine alone ( p = 0.13 ) . in the last 4 weeks of treatment , the corresponding figures were 65 % ( interquartile range , 42 % to 90 % ) and 76 % ( interquartile range , 49 % to 110 % ) ( p = 0.19 ) . conclusions : the use of prednisone in addition to sulphasalazine in patients with active crohn disease results in a significantly faster initial improvement , but not in a significantly better result after 16 weeks of treatment , when disease activity is measured by the van hees activity index . 
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in infantile cholestasis . the difficulty of distinguishing surgically correctable causes of conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia in infants from other causes means that some infants may undergo laparotomy and intraoperative cholangiography unnecessarily , and others may be referred for surgery too late . in an attempt to improve the diagnostic accuracy in infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia when standard methods produced equivocal results , we have been using prototype paediatric duodenoscopes ( pjf 7.5 and xpjf 8.0 ; olympus ) to perform endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) . from 159 infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia , 11 were referred for ercp , which was performed in nine . in four in whom bile ducts were definitely visualised laparotomy was avoided . operative cholangiography confirmed patent bile ducts in one in whom visualisation had been uncertain . three of four in whom bile ducts were not seen had extrahepatic biliary atresia . visible bile drainage in the fourth excluded atresia . no major complications ensued but there was radiological evidence of gall bladder perforation in one ( common hepatic duct block ) and overinflation with air was a problem until finer cannulae ( wilson-cook ) were introduced . in appropriately selected patients with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia , ercp with paediatric duodenoscopes in experienced hands may provide useful diagnostic information . 
audit of results of operations for infantile pyloric stenosis in a district general hospital because of the proposal that infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis should only be treated by surgeons with an interest in paediatric surgery , we carried out a retrospective study to audit our experience in a district general hospital . forty six infants over a five year period underwent pyloromyotomy . there were no deaths , and 36 infants ( 78 % ) made uneventful recoveries . perforation of the duodenal mucosa occurred during the operation in 11 patients , and eight complications developed in six of these infants . there were seven wound infections , and two patients had vomiting that lasted four days or longer after their operations . there were no long term feeding problems . the results of this study show that such patients can be successfully treated in district general hospitals , and three areas merit special attention : meticulous surgical technique , the use of prophylactic antibiotics , and early graduated feeding . 
bleeding from duodenal lymphangiectasia . an 8 year old girl with recurrent upper gastrointestinal bleeding was found to have localised duodenal lymphangiectasia by fibreoptic endoscopy . she did not show physical signs or laboratory evidence of significant enteric protein loss . a low fat diet seemed to prevent further bleeding . duodenal lymphangiectasia may be associated with gastrointestinal bleeding in children . 
intraperitoneal femoral venous catheter insertion with free blood return in presence of tense hemoperitoneum . the authors report a case of intraperitoneal insertion of a femoral venous catheter , with blood return , in a patient with hemoperitoneum . in such patients , skin puncture at or below the inguinal ligament is important . aspiration of unusually dark blood and medial catheter location should raise the possibility of intraperitoneal catheter placement . 
miliary tuberculosis presenting as hepatic and renal failure . a 67-year-old man developed hepatic and renal failure over a six-day period . despite full supportive measures , he died on his 11th day of hospitalization with fulminant dic and hepatic , renal , and respiratory failure . postmortem examination revealed acid-fast bacilli in virtually all organ systems . miliary tuberculosis should be considered as a potentially treatable cause of hepatic failure . 
management of an extensive tracheoesophageal fistula by cervical esophageal exclusion . giant tracheoesophageal fistulae occurring in ventilator-dependent patients usually result in significant ventilatory embarrassment . cervical exclusion of the fistula can safely control the fistula and quickly restore adequate ventilation to these critically ill patients . 
medical treatment of esophageal achalasia . double-blind crossover study with oral nifedipine , verapamil , and placebo calcium channel blockers have been previously shown to decrease lower esophageal sphincter ( les ) pressure and improve symptoms in achalasia . we performed a placebo-controlled , double-blind , crossover study to assess the effects of oral nifedipine and verapamil on les pressure , amplitude of esophageal body contraction , and clinical symptomatology in eight patients with symptomatic achalasia diagnosed by endoscopy , barium swallow , and manometry . patients were randomized to receive up to 20 mg nifedipine , 160 mg verapamil , or placebo and underwent esophageal manometry before ( baseline ) and after four weeks on each drug . diary cards were kept to record and grade symptoms and drug plasma level determinations were correlated with manometric and clinical findings . both nifedipine and verapamil caused a statistically significant decrease in mean les pressure , but only nifedipine caused a significant decrease in the amplitude of contractions of the smooth muscle portion of the esophagus . no statistically significant differences in the overall clinical symptomatology were noted with any of the drugs , although some individual improvements in dysphagia and chest pain were noted . we conclude that , despite the reduction in les pressure and contraction amplitude of the distal esophageal body , oral nifedipine and verapamil do not significantly alter the clinical symptomatology of patients with achalasia . 
management of dysphagia in suspected esophageal motor disorders fifty-three patients suffering from dysphagia because of suspected esophageal motor disorders were treated by pneumatic dilatation using the rider-moeller technique . fifteen had achalasia demonstrated by manometric studies . forty-nine of them had remarkable clinical improvement after the procedure . during the mean period of follow-up ( average 5 years , range 1-11 ) , 75 % of the patients needed a new dilatation , with a delay of two years . the results of the dilatation were excellent or good in 80 % of the cases . early complications consisted in two esophageal perforations surgically treated . there was no mortality . we did not observe late complications of the procedure . we conclude that pneumatic dilatation should be the initial procedure in the treatment of dysphagia in suspected esophageal motor disorders . 
reevaluation of manometric criteria for vigorous achalasia . is this a distinct clinical disorder ? clinical and manometric data from 97 consecutive patients with idiopathic achalasia were analyzed to see if a distinct subset with vigorous achalasia could be identified . statistical analyses failed to detect a unique group of subjects based on the distribution of contraction wave amplitudes alone . because of this , patients falling above the 95th percentile ( n = 4 , mean wave amplitude greater than 100 mm hg for each ) were compared with those having mean amplitudes above the conventional threshold for the diagnosis of vigorous achalasia ( mean amplitude 60-100 mm hg , n = 4 ) , and with the remainder ( n = 89 , mean amplitude less than 60 mm hg ) . subjects with mean amplitudes less than 60 mm hg and with mean amplitudes 60-100 mm hg closely resembled each other in all measured clinical features , whereas subjects with mean amplitudes greater than 100 mm hg were all male , were older ( 67 + / - 4 years vs 47 + / - 2 years ; p less than 0.01 ) , and appeared to have somewhat longer duration of symptoms when compared with the remainder ( 82 + / - 41 vs 44 + / - 10 months ; p = 0.4 ) . chest pain and other esophageal symptoms , basal and residual lower sphincter pressures , and response to first treatment did not differ among the three groups . these data indicate that high-fidelity manometry techniques identify a rare subset of achalasia patients with mean contraction amplitudes exceeding 100 mm hg that , although older and possibly with greater duration of symptoms , presents similarly to others with idiopathic achalasia . outcome from conventional treatment is also similar for the " vigorous " and " nonvigorous " patients , making the distinction of questionable value . 
esophageal candidiasis in aids . successful therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets taken by mouth . in this paper we describe the results of oral therapy of esophageal candidiasis with clotrimazole vaginal tablets in 25 homosexual men with aids , of whom 19 had oral candidiasis and 16 had esophageal symptoms . therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets , 100 mg , taken by mouth cleared the esophageal symptoms , oral candidiasis , and esophageal lesions completely in all 25 men . clotrimazole vaginal tablets are a useful alternative to other antifungal agents for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis in aids patients . 
effect of intraesophageal location and muscarinic blockade on balloon distension-induced chest pain . intraesophageal balloon distension has been introduced recently as a provocative test in the assessment of patients with noncardiac chest pain . in order to examine the effect of balloon location and muscarinic blockade on distension-induced pain , 10 asymptomatic male volunteers were studied on two separate days using a low-compliance perfused manometry system that incorporated a silicone rubber balloon . five-second-duration balloon distensions using balloon volumes of 2.5 , 5 , 7.5 , and 10 ml of air were performed with the balloon located both 16 cm ( proximal site ) and 6 cm ( distal site ) above the lower esophageal sphincter ( les ) before and after administration of atropine ( 10 micrograms/kg intravenously ) or placebo in a randomized double-blind fashion . a standardized scoring system was used to assess the balloon distension-induced pain . pain scores varied directly with balloon volume but were consistently higher with the balloon located at the proximal site versus the distal site . this was not associated with any differences in intraballoon pressures between the two sites ; however , contraction amplitude orad to the balloon was greater with balloon distension at the proximal site . atropine significantly decreased pain sensation scores with the balloon located distally but not proximally . this attenuation was not associated with significant changes in intraballoon pressures ; however , contractions orad to the balloon were markedly inhibited by atropine with distal but not with proximal distension . these studies indicate that balloon distension-induced pain varies depending on the location of distension . this difference is not explained by differences in esophageal wall tension at the site of distension . 
natural killer cell activity in patients with liver cirrhosis relative to severity of liver damage . to evaluate the role of severe liver damage on natural killer cell activity , 29 patients with liver cirrhosis were examined . the natural killer cell activity was measured with a 4-hr chromium release assay , and the k562 cell line was employed as target cells . the natural killer cell activity was significantly decreased in cirrhotic patients compared with normal controls and patients with chronic active hepatitis . cirrhotic patients with pugh 's c grade of severity of liver disease had lower natural killer cell activity . the depression of natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients was inversely correlated with prothrombin time ratios , and the natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients with hepatic encephalopathy was lower than in patients without hepatic encephalopathy . thus , the diminished natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients might be related to the severity of liver damage . 
demonstration of two distinct subsets of gastric varices . observations during a seven-year study of endoscopic sclerotherapy . over a seven-year period , assessment of gastric varices was made on 225 patients receiving endoscopic sclerotherapy for variceal hemorrhage . of 170 patients with complete data , gastric varices were observed in 26 ( 15.3 % ) . importantly , two distinct subsets of gastric varices were identified : varices distal to the gastroesophageal junction without extension into the fundus , termed " junctional varices , " occurred in 11.2 % , and varices that were confined only to the fundus , termed " fundal varices , " occurred less frequently in 4.1 % . although rebleeding was increased in both subsets of gastric varices , junctional varices were more amenable to sclerotherapy . patients with fundal varices ( n = 7 ) had a significantly higher rebleeding rate , increased complications with sclerotherapy , and significantly decreased survival ( p less than 0.005 ) when compared to patients with esophageal varices alone ( n = 87 ) who were followed for more than three months . cumulative survival was not significantly different ( p less than 0.08 ) in patients with junctional varices ( n = 19 ) when compared with patients with esophageal varices alone . we conclude that not all patients with gastric varices have a poor result with sclerotherapy . recognition of these subsets may improve treatment strategies in patients with gastric varices . 
bile acids in human plasma interfere with cholecystokinin bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini . a bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini was used to measure fasting plasma cholecystokinin ( cck ) concentrations in 105 patients with various kinds of gastrointestinal diseases , 17 patients with diabetes mellitus , and 6 healthy volunteers . high plasma cck bioactivities were observed in patients with obstructive jaundice , choledocolithiasis , and primary biliary cirrhosis . twenty-three samples with high cck bioactivities were assayed by the same bioassay after the addition of a specific cck antagonist and by a cck radioimmunoassay in order to determine whether the high cck-like bioactivity was due to circulating cck or other factors . high cck bioactivities were partially inhibited by the specific cck antagonist , cr-1409 , but the activities were not totally abolished . the residual bioactivities ( not inhibited by cr-1409 ) correlated with plasma bile acid concentrations . the inhibitable cck bioactivities correlated with plasma cck levels obtained by radioimmunoassay . although the bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini has several advantages for measuring plasma cck , this method overestimates cck bioactivities in patients with high plasma bile acid concentrations . 
biliary pain in postcholecystectomy patients without biliary obstruction . a prospective radionuclide study . biliary pain without obvious biliary obstruction is common in postcholecystectomy patients . we studied 20 symptomatic patients with episodes of biliary-type pain after cholecystectomy ( all having undergone endoscopic retrograde cholangiography ) , and in 18 asymptomatic postcholecystectomy controls . we performed quantitative hepatobiliary radionuclide analysis with dimethyl-imidodiacetic acid . from a series of 90 dynamic images at 1-min intervals using a gamma camera coupled to a computer , time-activity curves were produced in regions of interest in the liver , intrahepatic biliary tree , common duct , and heart , from which quantitative biliary excretion indexes were obtained . the results demonstrate a biliary kinetic dysfunction in patients with postcholecystectomy pain without morphological abnormalities . 
ulcerative colitis disease activity as subjectively assessed by patient-completed questionnaires following orthotopic liver transplantation for sclerosing cholangitis . to assess whether or not liver transplantation and subsequent immunosuppression with cyclosporine and prednisone affect ulcerative colitis symptomatology , we surveyed by questionnaire all 23 surviving patients with pretransplant colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis who were transplanted for primary sclerosing cholangitis between june 1982 and september 1985 . at follow-up [ 89.8 + / - 7.6 weeks ( mean + / - sem ] , all six patients who had had asymptomatic colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis reported continued ulcerative colitis quiescence . among the 17 patients who had had symptomatic colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis at time of liver transplantation , 88.2 % reported improvement in overall ulcerative colitis severity ( p less than 0.001 ) , with significant improvement in the frequency of bowel movements reported by 100 % , in crampy abdominal pain by 87.5 % , in bowel urgency by 75 % , in the occurrence of pus or mucus in stool by 87.5 % , in the incidence of ulcerative colitis flares by 81.8 % , and in the number of days unable to function normally due to ulcerative colitis symptoms by 78.6 % ( all at least p less than 0.01 ) . these data demonstrate that ulcerative colitis symptom severity significantly improves following liver transplantation with immunosuppression with cyclosporine and prednisone . 
usefulness of fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration as early indicator of postoperative asymptomatic recurrence in crohn 's disease . the aim of this study was to evaluate in crohn 's disease the possible usefulness of alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration in the early detection of postoperative asymptomatic recurrence . eleven adult patients with small bowel crohn 's disease undergoing elective resection were enrolled in the study and prospectively followed for one year . three , six , and 12 months after surgery the alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration were measured , and the disease activity was assessed . all patients were free of active symptoms throughout the study . one year after surgery small bowel radiology was performed in all patients . radiographic evidence of recurrent macroscopic disease was found in five of the 11 patients . three months after surgery both alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration were significantly lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than before surgery . there was no difference at this time between patients with recurrence and those with no recurrence . in patients with recurrence both alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration significantly increased at six months in comparison with the values at three months ( p less than 0.02 ) . both measurements were significantly higher at six and 12 months in this group of patients than in those with no recurrence and in normal controls ( p less than 0.01 ) . at six and 12 months alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance was above the upper normal limit in all patients with recurrence . we conclude that fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance is a noninvasive , inexpensive , sensitive marker of asymptomatic recurrence in cd patients who are under regular supervision after surgery . 
endometriosis . an important condition in clinical gastroenterology . endometriosis , a condition defined by the presence of ectopic endometrium , is a disorder of increasing incidence and a significant cause of gastroenterologic distress in young women . although clinical manifestations vary considerably depending upon the anatomic extent of disease , characteristic abdominal complaints and typical physical findings continue to be associated with misdiagnosis and delayed recognition of gastrointestinal involvement . the authors of this paper review the medical literature concerning endometriosis of the digestive tract -- emphasizing modes of presentation , risk factors , diagnostic testing , complications , and therapy . greater familiarity with the disease and heightened awareness of its sequellae are needed and prerequisite to improved medical management . 
acute porphyria presenting with hyperamylasemia . an elevation of serum amylase and lipase has not been reported previously to occur with porphyria . in this report , we describe a patient who presented with the clinical and laboratory picture of pancreatitis : elevated amylase , lipase , amylase-creatinine clearance ratio , and with abdominal pain . only after extensive evaluation , was the patient found to have porphyria . on two separate occasions , with hematin therapy , her serum amylase decreased , as did her clinical symptoms of porphyria and her urinary quantitative porphyrins . this suggests an association between elevation of the serum amylase and lipase with acute porphyria . moreover , this association can lead to delay in establishing the diagnosis of acute porphyria . 
severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis advancing to gradual cessation with hyperbaric oxygen . we report a case of a male patient suffering from a severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis which gradually ceased with hyperbaric oxygen . we discuss the mechanisms of chronic radiation injury and the effect of the hyperbaric oxygen . this therapy is proposed as an alternative to surgical intervention for this abnormality . 
duodenal-caval fistula . duodenal-caval fistula is a rare , often lethal disease that requires prompt diagnosis and surgical correction . a case of duodenal-caval fistula due to duodenal ulceration is presented and discussed . 
elevated intracranial pressure and computed tomography of the brain in fulminant hepatocellular failure . cerebral herniation is a leading cause of death in patients with fulminant hepatocellular failure . classical signs of elevated intracranial pressure are often absent in these patients . a reliable noninvasive method by which the presence of cerebral edema could be determined is much needed . to assess the efficacy of computed tomography of the brain in this setting , we compared the radiographic findings to the intracranial pressure measured by an epidural monitor in patients with fulminant hepatic failure . unfortunately , a considerable difference existed between the presence of cerebral edema diagnosed by computed tomography of the brain and elevation of the intracranial pressure . our observations suggest that in patients with fulminant hepatic failure and advanced hepatic encephalopathy , computed tomography of the brain is of little value in detecting cerebral edema . pressure monitoring is most important to establish the presence and guide the therapy of intracranial hypertension . 
carbon tetrachloride-induced alterations of hepatic calmodulin and free calcium levels in rats pretreated with chlordecone . calmodulin , a low molecular weight ca2 + binding protein , regulates a large number of cell activities including cell division . previous studies from our laboratory indicated excessive accumulation of ca2 + in hepatocytes succeeded by rapid glycogen breakdown and suppressed cell division in rats receiving ccl4 after previous dietary exposure to 10 ppm chlordecone . since calmodulin plays a major role in ca2 ( + ) - regulated events and has been reported to be localized in mitotic apparatus during cell division , we have assessed subcellular distribution of calmodulin and estimated cytosolic phosphorylase a to indicate cytosolic free ca2 + levels in livers of rats fed 0 ppm or 10 ppm ( chlordecone ) in the diet for 15 days before ccl4 ( 100 microliters/kg ) administration to understand the role of ca2 ( + ) - calmodulin in chlordecone + ccl4 toxicity . hepatotoxicity was assessed by determining serum ast and alt succeeded by histopathological observations of liver sections . serum aminotransferases were significantly elevated 6 hr after ccl4 administration to normal rats and returned to control level by 24 hr . however , serum ast and alt elevations were severalfold higher , and progressive increase was observed starting 4 hr after ccl4 administration to chlordecone rats . histopathological observations of liver sections for necrotic , swollen and lipid-laden cells provided findings commensurate with the serum enzyme data . these data indicate that normal rats do recover from ccl4 hepatotoxicity . however , the ccl4 hepatotoxicity is progressive in chlordecone rats without recovery . in normal rats , ccl4 administration resulted in a slight increase in phosphorylase a starting at 6 hr . 
circulating tumor necrosis factor , interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 concentrations in chronic alcoholic patients . although altered cytokine homeostasis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease , the relationship between cytokines and metabolic consequences of alcoholic liver disease is unknown . we , therefore , sought to correlate circulating concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha , interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 to clinical and biochemical parameters of liver disease in chronic alcoholic patients . we used an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to measure plasma tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1 and a bioassay to measure serum interleukin-6 in three groups of alcoholic men as follows : ( a ) actively drinking alcoholic men without evidence of chronic liver disease , ( b ) nondrinking alcoholic men with stable cirrhosis and ( c ) patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis . mean cytokine concentrations were elevated in cirrhotic patients and alcoholic hepatitis patients compared with controls and alcoholic patients without liver disease . tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 alpha concentrations remained elevated for up to 6 mo after diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis , whereas interleukin-6 normalized in parallel with clinical recovery . concentrations of all three cytokines were correlated with biochemical parameters of liver injury and hepatic protein synthesis plus serum immunoglobulin concentrations . we could not demonstrate a relationship between cytokine concentrations and peripheral endotoxemia . percentages of peripheral blood monocytes that reacted with monoclonal antibodies to cd25 ( interleukin-2 receptor ) and human lymphocyte antigen-dr were similar for alcoholic patients and controls . these data suggest that tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 alpha are related to some of the metabolic consequences of both acute and chronic alcohol-induced liver disease , whereas interleukin-6 is related to abnormalities seen in acute liver injury . 
regulation of insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression by hepatitis b virus in hepatocellular carcinoma . in this study we investigated the regulation of insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression to explain a role for this growth factor in concert with hepatitis b virus involvement in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma from cirrhosis . sections of normal liver and tumor and non-tumor-bearing liver disease tissue were hybridized in situ with [ 35s ] - labeled insulin-like growth factor ii oligonucleotide probe . parallel sections were tested for presence of insulin-like growth factor ii polypeptide using immunohistochemistry . to investigate a possible role for hepatitis b virus in insulin-like growth factor ii gene expression in hepatocellular carcinoma , results were analyzed against patient seropositivity for hepatitis b virus . levels of insulin-like growth factor ii transcripts in normal liver ( n = 4 ) sections and in those from non-tumor-bearing individuals ( n = 10 ) were so low that specific signal was not detectable above homogeneous tissue background . in contrast , 4 of 8 ( 50 % ) of the sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhosis or noncirrhotic chronic liver disease with hepatitis b virus involvement showed increased expression of insulin-like growth factor ii messenger rna transcripts . up-regulation was observed in cell foci in the hepatocellular regions of the surrounding cirrhotic lobular cells and the fibrous septa . numerous cell foci were observed in patch distribution in the tumor areas . the level of insulin-like growth factor ii messenger rna transcripts in sections of hepatocellular carcinoma arising from cirrhotic and noncirrhotic tissues obtained from patients seronegative for hepatitis b virus was similar to that of normal liver . 
interferon-alpha receptor expression and regulation in chronic hepatitis b virus infection . interferon-alpha elicits antiviral and immunoregulatory activities by binding to specific receptors on the cell surface . in this study , binding characteristics of interferon-alpha to peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection were studied using radioiodinated recombinant interferon-alpha 2b to determine interferon-alpha receptor numbers and dissociation constants . a single class of interferon-alpha receptor was demonstrated on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and mononuclear subsets . peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection ( n = 20 ) and controls ( n = 16 ) expressed a similar number of interferon-alpha receptors ( 484 + / - 175 vs. 511 + / - 168 sites/cell respectively , p = ns ) with a similar dissociation constant ( dissociation constant approximately 0.2 to 0.7 nmol/l ) . expression of interferon-alpha receptors was similar in monocyte-enriched and lymphocyte-enriched fractions in both groups . similar changes were observed in patients receiving alpha-interferon therapy . there was no correlation between interferon-alpha receptors expression and serum transaminase , serum hbsag , serum hbv dna , liver histological findings or the response to interferon-alpha therapy . after incubation of lymphocytes in vitro with interferon-alpha 2b ( 10 to 1,000 u/ml ) , interferon-alpha receptors number dropped by 42 % to 80 % , but this was associated with an increase in binding affinity ( dissociation constant approximately 0.05 to 0.15 nmol/l ) in both patients and controls . there was significant delay in the initial phase of receptor recovery in the patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection compared with normal controls ( days 1 and 2 , p less than 0.05 ) . 
a rat model of esophageal varices . we have developed a new method for inducing portal hypertension and esophageal varices in rats -- partial ligation of the portal vein after devascularization of the circumference of the left renal vein and complete ligation of the portal vein on the fifth day thereafter . thirty rats were separated into groups of 10 , control ( sham operation ) , complete portal ligation only and complete portal ligation plus devascularization . two weeks after the surgery , the presence of esophageal varices in rats with complete portal ligation plus devascularization was confirmed by portography and by the histological findings . the diameter ( mean + / - sd ) of the submucosal veins of the lower esophagus in the complete portal ligation plus devascularization group ( 219.4 + / - 86.6 microns ) was significantly larger than that in the complete portal ligation group ( 99.8 + / - 53.4 microns ) or in the control group ( 30.5 + / - 16.6 microns ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . vascular structures of the lower esophagus closely resembled those in humans with esophageal varices . this new technique is simple , rapid and reliable , and application can be made to various experimental studies on portal hypertension . 
pancreatic pseudocyst in the left hepatic lobe : a report of two cases . the ultrasound and computed tomographic imaging features in a rare pancreatic pseudocyst of the liver are described in two patients . the pseudocysts occurred in the left lobe in both cases , one after a traumatic injury and the other after alcoholic pancreatitis . the possible topographical sequences with which pancreatic secretions entered the left hepatic lobe to form a cyst are discussed . 
outcome of hepatitis b virus infection in homosexual men and its relation to prior human immunodeficiency virus infection . to investigate the effect of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection on subsequent hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection , hiv antibody was sought in homosexual men who developed hbv infection during a hepatitis b vaccine trial . among 134 unvaccinated hiv-1-negative men , 7 % became hbv carriers , 64 % had viremia , and 42 % had clinical illness . among vaccinated hiv-1-negative men , hbv infection severity decreased with number of vaccine doses administered . when adjusted for prior hepatitis b vaccination status , persons with hiv-1 infection preceding hbv infection had a significantly higher risk of developing hbv carriage , viremia , prolonged alt elevation , and clinical illness . among hiv-1-infected men , the risk of hbv carriage was increased in unvaccinated persons ( 21 % ) and those who failed to respond to vaccination ( 31 % ) and further increased in those who received vaccine doses at the time they developed new hbv infection ( 56 % -80 % ) , suggesting inactivated hepatitis b vaccine may temporarily impair the immune response to hbv infection in hiv-1-infected persons . hiv-1 infection was also associated with reduced alanine aminotransferase elevations during the first 36 months of follow-up of men who became hbv carriers . 
a field study of the safety and efficacy of two candidate rotavirus vaccines in a native american population . a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a rhesus rotavirus vaccine and rit 4237 , a bovine rotavirus vaccine , in a navajo population . infants aged 2-5 months were randomized to receive one dose of either 10 ( 4 ) pfu of the rhesus rotavirus vaccine or 10 ( 8 ) pfu of the rit 4237 vaccine or placebo . eleven ( 10.2 % ) of 108 infants in the rhesus vaccine group , 11 ( 10.4 % ) of 106 in the rit 4237 group , and 9 ( 8.4 % ) of 107 in the placebo group experienced rotavirus diarrhea during the follow-up period of 17 months . thus , in this population , neither vaccine was efficacious in preventing rotavirus diarrhea . 
measles-associated diarrhea in hospitalized children in lima , peru : pathogenic agents and impact on growth . because the causes of measles-associated diarrhea are not well known , 0 - to 5-year-old children presenting to the hospital with measles-associated diarrhea ( cases , n = 77 ) or acute diarrhea only ( controls , n = 77 ) were compared . growth and diarrheal morbidity were evaluated for 1 month after acute illness . campylobacter jejuni was more frequently isolated from cases ( 31 % ) than controls ( 16 % ; p = .03 ) . rotavirus was absent in all cases versus 28 % of controls ( p less than .001 ) . incidence density for new episodes of diarrhea was significantly greater in cases ( 6.5 vs. 4.1 ; odds ratio , 1.6 ; confidence intervals , 1.09-2 .34 ; p = .01 ) , as was duration of episodes ( 3 vs. 2 days , p = .02 ) . both groups showed similar positive cumulative percentage weight gains throughout follow-up . these data support the theory of measles as a risk factor for developing diarrhea . the bacteriologic and virologic findings may reflect the immunologic response of the host to measles infection . 
diffuse-adhering escherichia coli ( daec ) as a putative cause of diarrhea in mayan children in mexico . diarrhea is a major cause of infantile morbidity and mortality in developing countries . a community-based , case control study was conducted in a southern mexican mayan village for 3 weeks during the peak diarrhea period to prospectively identify the infectious agents associated with childhood diarrheal disease . several enteropathogens were isolated from stools of 34 of 58 cases , although none was significantly associated with diarrhea . for the 24 cases from which no enteropathogens were isolated , diffuse-adhering escherichia coli ( daec ) strains were significantly associated with diarrheal disease ( p less than .02 ; odds ratio = 6 ; 95 % confidence limit , 1.08-99 .0 ) . daec were highly heterogeneous with respect to plasmid content and serotype . three dna probes designed to differentiate e. coli exhibiting localized , diffuse , or aggregative adherence were compared with results from a standard hela cell binding assay to assess the utility of these probes in the field . this study provides evidence for the potential pathogenic capacity of daec and underscores the variety of diarrheal agents operating within a community . 
yersinia enterocolitica o :3 : an emerging cause of pediatric gastroenteritis in the united states . the yersinia enterocolitica collaborative study group . after an outbreak of yersinia enterocolitica infections among black children in atlanta , a seven-hospital study was conducted to determine the importance of this pathogen in other communities with large black populations . of 4841 stool specimens from patients with gastroenteritis examined between november 1989 and january 1990 , y. enterocolitica , shigella , campylobacter , and salmonella were identified in 38 , 49 , 60 , and 98 specimens , respectively ; 34 ( 92 % ) of 37 y. enterocolitica isolates were serotype o :3 . of the 38 patients with yersiniosis , 37 ( 97 % ) were children . illnesses were clustered around the holidays , and 20 ( 62 % ) of 32 patients had been exposed to raw pork intestines in the 2 weeks before onset . exposure was significantly associated with illness in a case-control study of eight patients identified at one hospital ( p = .004 ) . infants less than or equal to 6 months old with yersiniosis were more likely to have immature-to-total neutrophil ratios greater than 0.50 than were infants of comparable age with salmonellosis ( p = .02 ) . infrequently isolated in the past , y. enterocolitica o :3 is emerging as an important enteric pathogen in this country , particularly among black children . 
preexposure of the peritoneum to live bacteria increases later mixed intraabdominal abscess formation and delays mortality . intraabdominal infections are a major source of morbidity and mortality for the trauma and postoperative patient . transient peritoneal contamination with bacteria after either intentional or unintentional violation of the gut are common . the effect of this intermittent antigen exposure upon later formation of intraabdominal abscesses is unclear . previous experiments by others have demonstrated that repeated exposure to bacteroides fragilis capsular polysaccharide can induce a t lymphocyte-mediated immunity to subsequent induction of pure b. fragilis abscess formation . in a murine mixed intraabdominal abscess model , preexposure to live escherichia coli , b. fragilis , or both increased the number of later abscesses and in some cases their bacterial composition . further , immunization with e. coli alone increased late mortality without altering overall mortality . these data suggest that the alterations of immune function produced by live , transient bacteria upon subsequent mixed intraabdominal abscess induction result in fundamentally different consequences from those observed after specific polysaccharide antigen exposure and subsequent monomicrobial abscess induction . 
obesity and colorectal adenomatous polyps . obesity has been investigated as a risk factor for various malignancies , including colon cancer . a case-control study was conducted on patients in three colonoscopy practices in new york city to determine possible risk factors for colorectal adenomatous polyps , a known precursor lesion for most cases of colorectal cancer . among 301 case subjects with incidence adenomatous polyps ( 174 men and 127 women ) and 506 control subjects ( 223 men and 283 women ) , an increased risk was observed with increasing body mass index in women ( odds ratio 2.1 , 95 % confidence interval 1.1-4 .0 ; for highest versus lowest quartile , linear trend p = .02 ) . a nonsignificant trend was observed for men . the increased risk seen in women is consistent with prior observations regarding reproductive hormonal and dietary risk factors for colorectal cancer . 
should alcoholics compete equally for liver transplantation ? the circumstances of liver transplantation are unique among organ transplantation because of the dire , absolute scarcity of donor livers and the predominance of one disease -- alcohol-related end-stage liver disease -- as the principal cause of liver failure . we propose that patients who develop end-stage liver disease through no fault of their own should have higher priority for receiving a liver transplant than those whose end-stage liver disease results from failure to obtain treatment for alcoholism . we base our proposal on considerations of fairness and on whether public support for liver transplantation can be maintained if , as a result of a first-come , first-served approach , patients with alcohol-related end-stage liver disease receive more than half the available donor livers . we conclude that since not all can live , priorities must be established for the use of scarce health care resources . 
alcoholics and liver transplantation . the ethics and social impact committee of the transplant and health policy center . two arguments underlie a widespread unwillingness to consider patients with alcoholic cirrhosis of the liver as candidates for transplantation . first , alcoholics are morally blameworthy , their condition the result of their own misconduct ; such blameworthiness disqualifies alcoholics in unavoidable competition for organs with others who are equally sick but blameless . second , because of their habits , alcoholics will not exhibit satisfactory rates of survival after transplantation ; good stewardship of a scarce lifesaving resource therefore requires that alcoholics not be considered for liver transplantation . these arguments are carefully analyzed and shown to be defective . there is not good moral or medical reason for categorically precluding alcoholics as candidates for liver transplantation . it would , in addition , be unjust to implement such a preclusion simply because others might respond negatively if we do not . 
collagenous colitis as a cause of chronic diarrhea . when the usual workup for chronic diarrhea fails to provide a diagnosis and the endoscopic findings are normal , alternative etiologies must be considered . this case of collagenous colitis represents such an alternative diagnosis . the patient is a 65-year-old woman who complained of abdominal cramps and watery diarrhea for an 8-month span . the key element to her diagnosis was subepithelial collagen deposits of the mucosa of the colon . her symptoms were resolved with supportive care , diet , and diphenoxylate . essential features and treatment of collagenous colitis are reviewed . 
recurrent peritonitis : evidence for possible viral etiology . a 45-year-old woman who was treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) developed recurrent peritonitis characterized by cloudy effluents , elevated white blood cell ( wbc ) counts ( predominantly lymphocytes ) , and negative culture results . this case report suggests that she may have had viral peritonitis as indicated by a positive viral culture , the presence of viral antibodies in serum and peritoneal dialysis effluent ( pde ) , hematological findings , and cell surface receptor studies . the possibility of a viral cause should be considered in patients with culture-negative peritonitis , especially if they do not respond to antibiotics . 
two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis due to hypercalcemia . we report two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia . after sudden onset of epigastralgia , acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia were found in both patients . there were no diseases that could explain the acute pancreatitis except for hypercalcemia probably due to adult t-cell leukemia . thus we considered that hypercalcemia due to adult t-cell leukemia had led to acute pancreatitis . this is the first report of such a complication in adult t-cell leukemia . 
intestinal cryptosporidiosis : pathophysiologic alterations and specific cellular and humoral immune responses in rnu / + and rnu/rnu ( athymic ) rats . in order to develop an experimental model of symptomatic cryptosporidiosis in an immunosuppressed mammal , we investigated the pathophysiology of infection with cryptosporidium and the humoral and cellular host responses in rnu/rnu ( athymic ) rats and their heterozygous ( rnu / + ) littermates by challenging suckling rats with greater than or equal to 2.5 x 10 ( 6 ) cryptosporidium oocytes oro-gastrically . normal and immunodeficient animals were followed for onset and duration of infection ( fecal oocysts ) , physiologic consequences ( diarrhea , impaired weight gain , brush-border enzyme activities ) , and immunologic response ( both b - and t-lymphocyte-mediated ) . homozygosity for the rnu gene was associated with protracted cryptosporidial infections ; shedding for up to 52 days occurred , and delay in weight gain was noted in rnu/rnu-infected compared with rnu/rnu-uninfected rats ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , cryptosporidial challenge of rnu / + rats resulted in self-resolving infections , occasionally with transient diarrhea lasting four days or less occurring 10-15 days after oro-gastric challenge . the latter animals mounted a cell-mediated immune response to cryptosporidium : three months after challenge , five of five rnu / + rats demonstrated positive skin test responses to a subcutaneous 3.5 micrograms dose of cryptosporidial antigen . further , sera from 6 rnu / + rats taken two to three months after oro-gastric oocyst challenge exhibited specific anticryptosporidial immunoglobulin binding ( a405 = 0.96 ) , compared to that of seven uninfected rnu / + controls ( a405 = 0.09 , p less than 0.02 ) . macromolecules of 150 , 105 , and 88 kd in the cryptosporidium antigen preparation were bound by serum immunoglobulin from previously infected , recovered rnu / + rats . two brush-border enzymes ( lactase and alkaline phosphatase ) were markedly reduced in the ileum 8-10 days after oro-gastric challenge in rats with diarrhea and oocyst shedding . we find the rnu/rnu ( athymic , nude ) rat provides a useful model for study of prolonged cryptosporidial infection with impaired weight loss , brush-border enzyme alteration and intermittent diarrhea . these studies further suggest that a t-lymphocyte population is involved in recovery from cryptosporidium infection and that this recovery is associated with both cellular and humoral immune responses to specific cryptosporidial antigenic macromolecules . this model should open further avenues for the study of the pathogenesis and protective immunity in cryptosporidial infection . 
isoenzyme profiles of four strains of giardia lamblia and their infectivity to jirds . the infectivity to jirds ( meriones unguiculatus ) and the cyst excretion pattern of a recently isolated strain of giardia lamblia from egypt , strain cdc :1088:1 ( egy ) , were compared to those of three well-established strains . all five jirds inoculated orally with strain uno :0487:1 ( uno ) became infected and began excreting cysts 3-6 days post-infection ( dpi ) ; no cysts were detected between 8-12 dpi after which time cysts were produced through day 19 . four of the five jirds infected with strain atcc :30957 ( wb ) and three of the five jirds infected with strain cdc :0284:1 ( va ) excreted cysts from 6-20 dpi and 6-22 dpi , respectively . one of five jirds inoculated with egy excreted cysts on 8 dpi only . at necropsy , trophozoites were recovered from only three uno-infected jirds but from all wb - and va-infected jirds that excreted cysts . the one jird which excreted cysts of egy was negative at necropsy , but egy trophozoites were found in one non-patient jird . isoelectric focusing indicated that these four strains of g. lamblia represented three zymodemes . wb and va were assigned to one zymodeme , egy to a second , and uno , which shared common bands with both other zymodemes , to the third . although the similarities and differences in infectivity and cyst excretion patterns appear to coincide with the zymodemes to which the strains can be assigned , further study is needed to examine the parasitologic behavior of these strains in relation to isoenzyme patterns . 
rupture of the oesophagus during cricoid pressure rupture of the oesophagus occurred during the application of cricoid pressure at induction of anaesthesia when the patient vomited . the patient , who was bleeding from a gastric ulcer , was found to have a lower oesophageal tear which , although repaired at operation , resulted in a fatal mediastinitis . 
the role of a critical care unit in an epidemic . the role of a critical care unit in life-threatening situations is well established . the management of 52 children with acute gastroenteritis and 22 children with acute paralytic poliomyelitis as part of recent epidemics is described . the solutions to the problems in the critical care management of these 74 victims ( out of a total of 6197 patients admitted during the epidemics ) are discussed . 
poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker . phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal , anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals . its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer , safer drugs . we report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache . he developed grand mal seizures , coma , hypotension , respiratory and renal failure , and hepatic injury . serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/ml . the patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis . 
propofol as an i.v. anaesthetic induction agent in variegate porphyria . the choice of an i.v. anaesthetic induction poses problems for the anaesthetist confronted with a patient with one of the acute porphyrias . we undertook a prospective clinical trial in 13 variegate porphyric subjects using propofol as an anaesthetic induction agent . urinary porphyrin precursors and porphyrins were measured before operation and 1-5 days after operation . stool and plasma porphyrin concentrations were measured over the same period . comparison of these data in the porphyric patients and in 21 control subjects over the trial period revealed no significant change in porphyrin or porphyrin precursor output after operation . urinary porphyrin precursor concentrations did not exceed the limits established for variegate porphyric patients in remission , and there were no changes in the stool and plasma porphyrin profiles or any symptoms of an acute porphyric attack . we conclude that propofol did not appear to be porphyrinogenic when used for the induction of anaesthesia in 13 patients with variegate porphyria . 
a simple score for the identification of patients at high risk of organic diseases of the colon in the family doctor consulting room . the local ibs study group . in order to develop a scoring system for selecting patients at high risk of organic diseases of the colon , who would need a colonoscopy or a barium enema , we conducted a study with 14 gps in the local health care district of modena . over one year , 254 consecutive patients who consulted their gp for chronic abdominal pain were asked to answer a guided questionnaire . a checklist of simple parameters suggestive of the presence of organic diseases of the colon was also registered by the gp . for the final diagnosis , the patients underwent either a colonoscopy or a barium enema . data collected were analysed by means of a stepwise logistic regression analysis to obtain a weighted score for the diagnosis of either irritable bowel syndrome ( score less than 0 ) or organic disease ( score greater than 0 ) . out of the 25 parameters explored , six were significantly more common among patients with organic disease and weighted as positive score ( namely esr greater than 17 mm , first hour , history of blood in the stool , leukocytosis greater than 10,000 cm3 , age greater than 45 years , slight fever and presence of neoplastic colonic diseases in first-degree relatives ) . on the contrary , five parameters were more frequent among patients with irritable bowel syndrome and weighted as negative score ( namely visible distension of the abdomen , feeling of distension , presence of irritable bowel syndrome in first degree relatives , flatulence and irregularities of bowel movement ) . our scoring system correctly classified 83.5 % of the cases , and it was very sensitive ( 82.4 % ) for the diagnosis of organic disease . 
hepatocyte expression of hbcag and serum hbeag in hepatitis b : comparison of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies during a trial of interferon . the distribution and quantitative expression of hbcag in relation to serum hbeag and liver histology before and after a trial of interferon in 50 patients with chronic type b hepatitis were evaluated using polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies . in general , both antisera showed a similar pattern in terms of the distribution of hbcag , with predominant localisation of hbcag in the cytoplasm in hbeag positive patients with chronic active hepatitis . semiquantitative analysis showed , however , that there was a higher degree of cytoplasmic expression of hbcag with polyclonal than with monoclonal anti-hbc . some of the hbeag positive patients with only a focal expression of hbcag in the cytoplasm by polyclonal anti-hbc showed no expression of hbcag with monoclonal anti-hbc . the expression of hbcag with polyclonal anti-hbc correlated better with the histological features of chronic active hepatitis or the persistence of serum hbeag on follow up , suggesting that it did not result from non-specific or false positive staining . all of the hbeag negative patients with minimal histological changes or inactive cirrhosis were hbcag negative with both antisera . in conclusion , though both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies produced a quite similar distribution of hbcag in patients with chronic type b hepatitis , polyclonal antibody seemed to be more sensitive in detecting hbcag in the cytoplasm than did monoclonal anti-hbc , and the expression of hbcag with polyclonal anti-hbc correlated better with the clinical and histological outcome . 
evaluation of the pre-s ( pre-s ( 1 ) ag/pre-s ( 2 ) ab ) system in hepatitis b virus infection . the diagnostic and prognostic value of pre-s ( 1 ) ag and pre-s ( 2 ) ab was investigated in 69 hbsag surface antigen positive patients -- 14 with acute hepatitis b , 30 with chronic liver disease ( six chronic persistent hepatitis , 14 chronic active hepatitis , 10 with cirrhosis ) and in 25 asymptomatic carriers . pre-s ( 1 ) ag was found in all patients with chronic hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection regardless of viral replication . in contrast , pre-s ( 2 ) ab was not detected in any patients . acute hepatitis was studied sequentially with periodic controls at 20 day intervals . pre-s ( 1 ) ag cleared before hbsag in six of 14 ( 43 % ) patients who progressed favourably , and the two antigens cleared simultaneously in eight of 14 ( 57 % ) cases . patients with early clearance of pre-s ( 1 ) ag progressed favourably , thus indicating the prognostic value of this test , which , however , is still of limited practical application given the small temporal difference between the moment of clearance of the two antigens . the first markers to clear , however , were hbeag and dna-hbv , which showed significant differences with respect to the clearance of hbsag . moreover , pre-s ( 2 ) ab appeared before hbsab in 57.1 % of our patients and was found in some patients before pre-s ( 1 ) ag and hbsag had cleared ( 42.8 % ) , thus allowing complete viral clearance and acute hbv infection to be predicted earlier . 
breakdown of gastric mucus in presence of helicobacter pylori . the potential of helicobacter pylori to degrade gastric mucus was examined . colonies of h pylori cultured from antral mucosal biopsy specimens of patients with non-autoimmune gastritis were washed with sterile saline , passed through a sterilisation filter , and the filtrate examined for urease , protease , and mucolytic activity . the filtrate failed to hydrolyse bovine serum albumin , or to degrade stable mucus glycoprotein structures of high particle weight that had been separated from human gastric mucus on sepharose 2b . the high particle weight mucus glycoprotein was , however , extensively degraded when incubated with h pylori filtrate ( which possessed urease activity ) in the presence of 2 m urea , to release fragments of mr approximately 2 x 10 ( 6 ) . the high particle weight mucus glycoprotein was also broken down to a comparable extent when incubated with jack bean urease in the presence of 2 m urea , or 1 m ammonium carbonate , or 40 mm carbonate-bicarbonate buffer ( ph 8.7 ) , but not when treated with 4 m urea alone , or jack bean urease alone . these results indicate that the loss of high particle weight mucus glycoprotein in gastric mucus from patients with gastritis and gastric ulcers is unlikely to be due to the mucolytic action of an extra-cellular protease produced by h pylori , but it may result from the destabilising effects of a carbonate-bicarbonate buffer , generated at the mucosal surface when h pylori urease hydrolyses transuded plasma urea . 
retrospective application of prognostic indices to pancreatitis discovered at necropsy . six prognostic indices , which were developed to assess inpatients with acute pancreatitis , were evaluated for possible retrospective application . when applied to a series of 14 cases in whom pancreatitis was first diagnosed at necropsy , the index devised by jacobs et al was found to be the most useful , because in nine of these cases eight or more of the variables required were available for assessment from the case records . in the other indices evaluated fewer than eight of the required variables were available for retrospective assessment in most cases . although undiagnosed pancreatitis is probably uncommon as a sole cause of death , the retrospective use of one or more of these indices may help assess the severity of the patient 's condition on admission to hospital . 
gross and microscopic changes in the viscera induced by photodynamic therapy applied to the lower abdomen of intact rats . photodynamic therapy ( pdt ) is a promising approach to the treatment of cancer . preferential retention of the photosensitizer by malignant tissue has been considered a hallmark of this treatment modality . however , photosensitivity can be observed in normal , non-neoplastic tissues , and the present study investigated the effects of pdt treatment on the abdomen of intact rats . a circular region ( 1 cm diameter ) on the shaved abdomen of fischer rats , pretreated 24 h prior with photofrin ii , was irradiated for 30 min at 632 nm . control animals received either photoradiation or photofrin ii administration . subsequent lesions were observed in the irradiated skin , its associated abdominal wall , and the underlying gut in rats receiving photofrin ii and laser irradiation . all tissues were not equally sensitive to pdt treatment . gut lesions were consistently more severe than were skin and abdominal wall injuries . by 24 hr after treatment , the gut manifested a transmural hemorrhagic necrosis , while the irradiated skin and abdominal wall were edematous , with an inflammatory infiltrate in the dermis and around occasional swollen myocytes . these results indicate that superficial lesions induced by pdt may not be reliable indicators of the extent of deeper pdt tissue damage . further , it may be possible to take advantage of this discrepancy in tissue sensitivity and treat deep tissues through less sensitive superficial tissues . 
valproate metabolism during hepatotoxicity associated with the drug . plasma concentrations of valproate and certain of its metabolites and their patterns of excretion in urine are described in three adults who developed hepatotoxicity during treatment of epilepsy with sodium valproate . one patient also developed a degree of reversible renal insufficiency , whilst another may have had associated infectious mononucleosis . all three cases showed evidence of impaired mitochondrial beta-oxidation of valproate . in one the impairment was at the stage catalysed by fatty acyl-coa dehydrogenase , in another at the stage catalysed by 3-hydroxyacyl-coa dehydrogenase and in the third at the stage catalysed by enoyl-coa hydratase and possibly also at the next stage catalysed by 3-hydroxyacyl-coa dehydrogenase . the impaired beta-oxidation meant that valproate metabolism was diverted into various alternative pathways . plasma concentrations of the suspected hepatotoxic metabolite 4-en-valproate were normal for the valproate-treated population in all cases . by analogy with certain spontaneous and acquired human disorders of branched chain amino acid metabolism , it is suggested that valproate-associated hepatotoxicity may represent the consequences of a valproate overload on a limited mitochondrial beta-oxidation capacity , causing accumulation of a toxic product of endogenous branched chain amino acid metabolism . 
diltiazem therapy for symptoms associated with nutcracker esophagus . a randomized double-blind , cross-over prospective trial in 22 patients was designed to evaluate possible effect of an oral calcium channel blocker , diltiazem , on symptoms of chest pain and/or dysphagia in patients with nutcracker esophagus . we studied 22 consecutive patients referred to an esophageal diagnostic center for evaluation of noncardiac chest pain or dysphagia having high amplitude esophageal contractions , 14 of whom completed the study . diltiazem ( 60-90 mg qid ) was compared with placebo , each being administered for 8 wk . patients were evaluated with esophageal motility pre - and posttreatment periods and with regular symptom assessment throughout each 8-wk treatment . active diltiazem therapy resulted in significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) mean distal esophageal peristaltic pressure ( 128 + / - 20 mm hg ; + / - se ) than placebo ( 158 + / - 16 mm hg ) . mean chest pains scores were significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) lower with diltiazem therapy than with placebo . only nine of the 14 patients fulfilled presently acceptable criteria for diagnosing nutcracker esophagus , and the diltiazem effect was similar , although not significant , because of the smaller sample . conclusions : in this preliminary study involving 14 patients , the oral calcium channel blocker , diltiazem , appeared to improve noncardiac chest pain associated with strong esophageal contraction , the nutcracker esophagus . these improved symptoms were associated with significant decreases in contraction pressure . 
colon interposition for esophageal disease : histologic finding of colonic mucosa after a follow-up of 5 months to 15 years . thirty-six patients , subjected to colon interposition for benign esophageal disease or carcinoma of the esophagus or gastric cardia , were studied by endoscopy for signs of mucosal disease in the interposed colon . five months to 15 yr ( mean 57 months ) after the operation , endoscopic finding of the interposed colon was macroscopically normal in 28 patients . signs of inflammation , including hyperemia or hyperemia and friability , were observed in seven patients . histologic specimens obtained at endoscopy were examined microscopically , and the findings were compared with those seen in the preoperative graft . in two patients , chronic inflammatory changes were observed in the graft mucosa , consisting of mononuclear cell infiltration of the lamina propria accompanied by crypt dilatation and deformation . in one of these patients , the inflammation was in the proximal third of the graft , and it was also seen at the endoscopy . in the remaining 34 patients , the graft mucosa was microscopically comparable to normal . the alterations were unexpectedly few and mild considering the marked change in the location and function of the colonic segment . 
a topographical relationship between helicobacter pylori and gastritis : quantitative assessment of helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa . a topographical relationship between the number of helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa and the histological severity of gastritis was studied in 902 pairs of biopsy specimens taken from 314 patients . a pair of biopsies were taken from the antrum , the lesser curvature of the middle body , and the greater curvature of the upper body of the stomach . the quantitative assessment of h. pylori was made based on smear , culture , and tissue section . the histological severity of gastritis was assessed as to the degrees of mononuclear cell and polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration . a positive correlation was confirmed between the number of h. pylori and the severity of polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration . the degrees of inflammatory cells infiltration in the specimens with h. pylori colonization were significantly lower in the upper body than in the antrum . 
gluten challenge in patients with celiac disease : evaluation of alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance . our aim in this study was to monitor changes of the intestinal structure by alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance ( alpha 1-atcl ) in order to offer an alternative to the gluten challenge biopsy . in addition , we evaluated the possibility of reducing the time of gluten challenge . twelve patients had a presumptive diagnosis of celiac disease based on clinical and histological grounds . they were studied when the jejunal histology was normal after gluten-free diet and an alpha 1-atcl was normal . the gluten was introduced by returning to a normal diet . the challenge lasted 4 wk . we measured alpha 1-atcl at the end of the 1st and 4th wk , and a new jejunal biopsy was obtained at the end of the 4th wk . by wk 1 , alpha 1-atcl was abnormal in 11 patients but normal in one . by wk 4 , alpha 1-atcl was abnormal in 10 patients and still normal in one . the post-challenge biopsies showed atrophy in 11 and was normal only in the patient with normal alpha 1-atcl at wk 1 and 4 . one patient with abnormal alpha 1-atcl had to stop the challenge at the first week . the patient with normal clearance at wk 1 and 4 and normal biopsy at wk 4 had abnormal results at 6 months . these data support our hypothesis that alpha 1-atcl can be used as evidence of gluten toxicity after gluten challenge , and that this test can be abnormal as early as 1 wk after gluten is reintroduced . 
undetected fatal acute pancreatitis : why is the disease so frequently overlooked ? an analysis of postmortem investigations between 1980 and 1985 revealed 43 patients with acute pancreatitis . in 13 ( 30.2 % ) of them , the diagnosis was first established at autopsy . in eight of the latter patients , the diagnosis could have been present on admission . the etiology was alcoholism in three patients , hypothermia in one , biliary tract disease in one , and unknown in three patients . in five patients , acute pancreatitis developed after gastric , pancreatic , or biliary tract surgery . abdominal pain was present in only one patient . amylase levels had been estimated in 11 patients , but the level was in the diagnostic range ( greater than or equal to 3 times of upper normal level ) in only four . consequently , ultrasound examination was performed in only two of the latter four patients , but failed to show the pancreas because of intestinal gas . to diagnose acute pancreatitis at an earlier stage and to improve therapy and prognosis , we recommend that serum amylase levels be measured and ultrasound examination be performed . if the results are inconclusive , this should be followed by computed tomography for all abdominal emergency cases and for patients who have undergone cardiopulmonary or upper abdominal surgery , especially when the patients deteriorate or fail to improve postoperatively . 
prolonged treatment of children with chronic hepatitis b with recombinant alpha 2a-interferon : a controlled , randomized study . a prospective study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of alpha-interferon in 20 children with biopsy-proven hbsag/hbeag/hbv-dna-positive , anti-delta-negative chronic hepatitis . patients were randomized to receive alpha 2a-interferon ( inf ) , 3 mu im three times weekly for 12 months , or no treatment ( 10 patients per group ) . five patients receiving ifn showed a marked decrease or negativization of hbv-dna during treatment . at the end of the study ( after 18 month ) , three patients lost hbv-dna permanently , and two of them seroconverted to hbeab 10 and 11 months after disappearance of hbv-dna with normalization of aminotransferase values . in the control group , one patient had spontaneous clearance of hbv-dna with conversion to hbeab and normalization of aminotransferase levels . all treated patients had a febrile reaction in the first month of treatment . the dose of ifn had to be decreased in two patients and was discontinued for persistent intolerance in one of them . patients who showed a decreased viral replication had higher initial biochemical and histological activity than nonresponders . the data suggest that ifn treatment may favorably influence the progression of chronic b hepatitis in children with a history of acute hepatitis and active chronic disease . 
cluster of fulminant hepatitis b in crack users . fulminant hepatitis occurs in only 1 % of acute hepatitis b patients , requiring hospitalization , but coinfection with delta virus increases the incidence . hepatitis b and d infection are commonly associated with intravenous drug abuse , but there have been no previous reports of an association with nonparenteral cocaine . crack use , via sexual promiscuity , is associated with an increased risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection , but has never been associated with viral hepatitis . we report four fatal cases of fulminant hepatitis b including , one with delta virus coinfection and one with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , in young , sexually active , heterosexual crack users . these patients denied a history of intravenous drug abuse . our patients probably contracted hepatitis b infection via heterosexual contact . chronic cocaine exposure may or may not have contributed to the fulminant outcome . crack users may be at increased risk of developing hepatitis b and d infection . epidemiological studies are needed to evaluate their risk of viral hepatitis and the effect of cocaine on its outcome . 
the effects of vitamin k on the generation of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ( pivka-ii ) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma . the clinical significance of des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ( pivka-ii ) in hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) was investigated in 112 patients with and without vitamin k administration . the positivity rate of pivka-ii was significantly decreased in patients receiving vitamin k ( 28.5 % ) , compared with those without vitamin k administration ( 54.5 % , p less than 0.05 ) . the plasma levels of vitamin k derivatives [ phylloquinone ( vk1 ) , menaquinone-4 ( mk4 ) , and menaquinone-7 ( mk7 ) ] measured were not decreased in patients with hcc , but were significantly increased in mk4 and vk1 + mk4 + mk7 . the amount of pivka-ii in plasma did not correlate with the plasma levels of vitamin k derivatives . however , pivka-ii was decreased by the administration of vitamin k , and all of the six patients with more than 5.0 ng/ml of vk1 + mk4 + mk7 were within normal limits , whereas half of 32 patients with less than that had abnormal levels of pivka-ii . thus , it was suggested that pivka-ii was not elevated due to vitamin k deficiency , but might result from the impaired metabolism or availability of vitamin k in the tumor . therefore , pivka-ii should be measured without vitamin k administration . 
gaucher 's disease complicated by bleeding esophageal varices and colonic infiltration by gaucher cells . we report a 10-yr-old child with gaucher 's disease who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding from esophageal varices , as well as hemorrhage from a colonic polyp infiltrated with gaucher cells . both the varices and polyp were treated endoscopically , and the outcome was successful . although gastrointestinal hemorrhage due to portal hypertension is considered a rare complication of gaucher 's disease , colonic infiltration with gaucher cells has not been recognized previously . 
use of plasmid profiles in the investigation of a patient with helicobacter pylori infection and peptic ulcer disease . plasmids may effect bacterial virulence and antibiotic resistance , and serve as epidemiologic markers . in this study , plasmid dna profiles of serial isolates of helicobacter pylori showed persistence of an identical strain of this organism in a patient with duodenal ulcer disease . three control strains of h. pylori isolated from other patients contained plasmids different from each other and from that of the original patient ; two of these strains had two plasmids each . these data have important implications for further study of the epidemiology and pathogenesis of h. pylori-related diseases . 
peritoneal blastomycosis . blastomycosis is a systemic fungal infection caused by blastomyces dermatitidis . involvement of the peritoneum is unusual , with only two previously reported cases that occurred in association with disseminated disease . a single case of histopathologically proven blastomycosis involving the peritoneum is presented , as well as a short overview of previously published cases on gastrointestinal and peritoneal blastomycosis . the case is unique in that chronic peritonitis was the only manifestation of disease . the diagnosis was made by laparoscopy . 
ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv : diagnosis and therapy of associated bowel perforation . ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv is a heritable disease of type iii collagen metabolism . this diagnosis is suspected in a patient with a combination of clinical manifestations and family history , but it is confirmed only by culture of the patient 's skin fibroblasts and demonstration of a defect in type iii collagen metabolism . the disease may rarely present with spontaneous colonic perforation , a complication traditionally treated by primary closure of the perforated segment and creation of an end colostomy . attempts at bowel reanastomosis have often resulted in repeated colon perforations . we present the first patient with ehlers-danlos type iv syndrome to develop a colon perforation proximal to an end colostomy , and discuss the surgical strategy to prevent recurrences of this and other postoperative complications associated with the syndrome . 
perforation and tumor formation of the intestine in primary amyloidosis . we report a case of primary amyloidosis with repeated bowel perforations . this patient also had localized amyloid deposition creating a tumorous region mimicking malignancy in the rectum . perforation of the intestine is common in systemic amyloidosis . the ischemic change due to amyloid infiltration into the vessel wall may lead to perforation of the affected bowel . amyloid tumors occur more often in localized amyloid than in systemic amyloidosis . macroscopically , it is difficult to distinguish amyloid tumor of the intestine from neoplasia . 
cerebrovascular complications of inflammatory bowel disease . there is an increased incidence of central nervous system thromboembolic events in young patients with inflammatory bowel disease . a 33-yr-old woman previously diagnosed with pseudotumor cerebri suffered superior sagittal and transverse sinus thromboses during a severe flare of ulcerative colitis . these were documented on contrast computed tomographic ( ct ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) scans . stroke may be more common in patients with ulcerative colitis than in patients with crohn 's disease ; arterial disease is more prevalent than venous and dural sinus disease , and is correlated with an active phase of inflammatory bowel disease . it is difficult to assess whether there is a relationship to concurrent steroid use , and a consistent relationship to duration of inflammatory bowel disease or to other extraintestinal manifestations is not apparent . 
giardia lamblia infestation reveals underlying whipple 's disease in a patient with longstanding constipation . whipple 's disease is an uncommon disorder , generally associated with gastrointestinal symptoms ; of these , diarrhea is a common feature . we report a case of whipple 's disease associated with chronic constipation which was not diagnosed until after giardia lamblia infestation had caused diarrhea . to the best of our knowledge this association has not previously been reported . the clinical , laboratory , endoscopic , and manometric aspects are described and discussed . 
epidermolysis bullosa acquisita and associated symptomatic esophageal webs . epidermolysis bullosa acquisita ( eba ) is a well-characterized , subepidermal blistering disorder associated with autoimmunity to type vii collagen , which is the collagen localized to anchoring fibrils within the dermoepidermal junction of skin . although the full clinical spectrum of eba is still being defined , it is known that the clinical features of eba may be reminiscent of hereditary dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa , a scarring blistering disease of children that is commonly associated with esophageal stenosis . we describe a patient with eba who had both an acral-predominant mechanobullous disease akin to dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa and an inflammatory , widespread bullous eruption reminiscent of bullous pemphigoid in association with esophageal webs and dysphagia . although esophageal involvement is common in dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa , a review of the literature shows that this is the first bonafide case of eba with symptomatic esophageal disease . 
severe gastrointestinal hemorrhage in crohn 's disease . twenty-one of fifteen hundred twenty-six patients with crohn 's disease ( cd ) treated at the mount sinai hospital between 1960 and 1986 developed severe gastrointestinal hemorrhage . there were 26 separate episodes of severe hemorrhage : 17 patients bled only once , three bled twice and one bled three times . the frequency of bleeding was significantly higher among patients with colonic involvement ( 17 of 929 ; 1.9 % ) than among those with small bowel disease alone ( 4 of 597 ; 0.7 % ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . twelve patients required surgery on 13 occasions , which involved colon resection in all but one case . eleven of these patients underwent surgery during their first hemorrhagic episodes , and 1 of 11 had a second operation for recurrent bleeding ; the 12th patient , whose first hemorrhage had been treated medically , had surgery during a repeated episode of hemorrhage . the precise bleeding points could be located in only 2 of the 26 bleeding episodes , both at the ileocecal area . three patients died , of whom two had not undergone surgery when they had bled a few weeks earlier . primary bleeding episodes subsided without surgery in 10 of 21 cases , but 3 of these 10 patients ( 30 % ) rebled massively . by contrast primary excisional surgery was followed by recurrent hemorrhage in only 1 of 11 cases ( 9 % ) . these differences in mortality and in recurrent bleeding rates , although not statistically significant , seem to favor removal of diseased bowel at the time of the first episode of massive hemorrhage . 
human liver regeneration after major hepatectomy . a study of liver volume by computed tomography . regeneration of the remnant liver after major hepatectomy in humans was studied by computed axial tomography ( ct ) in 12 noncirrhotic and five cirrhotic patients . liver volumes were measured by abdominal ct 3 days , 10 days , 3 months , 6 months , 1 year , and 1.5 years after resection . of the 17 patients , liver remnant volume was increased in 21.2 % + / - 6.7 % and 30.6 % + / - 12.7 % at 3 months and 6 months after resection , respectively . noncirrhotic livers were 28.4 % + / - 9.5 % and 48.4 % + / - 17.8 % larger at 3 and 6 months . for cirrhotic livers , the increase was 8.5 % + / - 3.6 % and 12.9 % + / - 4.5 % . in five patients with right hepatectomy ( 65 % resection ) , the liver remnant volumes were increased 38.4 % + / - 11.7 % , 48.0 % + / - 16.2 % and 95.1 % + / - 4.5 % at 3 months , 6 months , and 1 year after resection , respectively . in seven patients with right partial hepatectomy ( 30 % to 35 % resection ) , the percentages were 7.4 % + / - 3.2 % , 21.8 % + / - 8.4 % , and 63.9 % + / - 18.3 % and in five patients with left lateral segmentectomy ( 15 % resection ) , they were 15.6 % + / - 8.2 % , 27.8 % + / - 12.2 % , and 33.0 % + / - 14.5 % 3 months , 6 months , and 1 year after resections , respectively . noncirrhotic livers showed better regeneration than cirrhotic livers . complete regeneration took about 1 year . the noncirrhotic liver that underwent right lobectomy also needed 1 year to double its postresection volume . 
a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit for biliary atresia . forty-six consecutive patients with biliary atresia were operated on at our institution during the 11-year period between 1978 and 1989 . their ages at operation ranged from 18 to 153 days ( mean , 59 days ) . after dissecting the porta hepatis structures by kasai operation , a biliointestinal anastomosis was constructed with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit in all cases . the intestinal valve is an intussuscepted muscular valve . valvular function was examined radiologically . the upper gastrointestinal series demonstrated no reflux of contrast material into the conduit proximal to the valve and liver scintigraphy demonstrated that radioactive isotope drained readily into the duodenum through the valve . thirty-nine of the forty-six patients ( 85 % ) had bile drainage after initial operation . at present 30 patients ( 65 % ) are alive without jaundice , 6 ( 13 % ) are alive with jaundice , and 10 ( 22 % ) are dead . the 5-year jaundice-free survival rate was 64 % . cholangitis occurred in 9 of 39 patients ( 23 % ) who had obtained apparent bile drainage : 5 had tractable cholangitis and 4 had refractory cholangitis . reoperation restored bile flow in 2 of 8 patients who abruptly ceased to have bile drainage without cholangitis . in conclusion , with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit , the incidence of cholangitis was decreased , its medical control became easier , and the survival rate was improved . 
the peritoneal environment during infection . the effect of monomicrobial and polymicrobial bacteria on po2 and ph. intraperitoneal ( ip ) abscesses frequently are composed of aerobes and anaerobes , and , in experimental models , a particulate adjuvant . the environmental changes effected by these components , either singularly or in combination , have not been well defined . the ip po2 , ph , and recoverable bacteria from the peritoneum of rats were quantified over 6 hours during simple aerobic and anaerobic infections and during mixed peritonitis with and without a sterile feces-barium sulfate adjuvant ( sfa ) . fourteen groups were studied , receiving intraperitoneally , at time of oxygen probe placement , 1 ml normal saline ( control ) , escherichia coli ( ec ) , bacteroides fragilis ( bf ) , sfa alone , or a mixture of ec and bf , ec and sfa , bf and sfa , or ec , bf , and sfa . control animals exhibited a stable ip po2 and ph during 6 hours . in monomicrobial ec peritonitis , inocula well below the ld50 produced an increased ip po2 and reduced arterial-peritoneal gradient ( apg ) , with a stable ip ph. by 6 hours lethal doses of ec produced a dramatic decline in ip po2 , with no change in arterial po2 as well as acidic ip and arterial phs . simple bf peritonitis caused no or minor elevations in ip and arterial po2 with no change in ph. during mixed infections a significant decline in the ip po2 and ph at 6 hours in those groups infected with both sfa and ec of a moderate , normally sublethal inoculation was observed , while arterial po2 was unchanged and arterial ph was decreased only slightly . concomitantly there was a significant increased number of aerobic bacteria in those groups with sfa as adjuvant compared to similar inocula without sfa . this study demonstrates the complex interactions of bacteria , sterile particulate adjuvant ( sfa ) , and the host peritoneum . it suggests that the combination of sfa and aerobic bacteria alter the peritoneal environment to one permitting anaerobic growth and promoting abscess formation . 
simultaneous bilateral hernia repair . a case against conventional wisdom . the timing of bilateral hernia repair remains controversial . because of reported high recurrence rates after simultaneous bilateral repair , staged procedures have been suggested . this study determined recurrence and complication rates of unilateral versus simultaneous bilateral repair . of 659 patients undergoing hernia repair between 1974 and 1980 , 333 underwent unilateral repair and 329 had simultaneous bilateral repair . more than 90 % of patients were followed until death or a minimum of 60 months ( median , 104 months ) . perioperative complications were associated with 18 % of repairs . more morbidity occurred in the bilateral group . however complication rates for specific events were not significantly different , except for urinary retention , which occurred in 20 patients ( 6.1 % ) of the unilateral group and 49 ( 15 % ) of the bilateral group ( p less than 0.001 ) . overall 25 recurrences occurred in the unilateral group and 31 in the bilateral group . recurrence rates at 5 and 9 years were , respectively , 4.8 % and 8.8 % in the unilateral group and 5.0 % and 9.1 % in the bilateral group ( p = 0.861 ) . these data suggest that simultaneous bilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy does not result in increased rates of most postoperative complications or recurrence when compared with unilateral repair . 
technique of photodynamic therapy for disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms . phase i study . patients with disseminated intraperitoneal malignant neoplasms were given intra-abdominal photodynamic therapy . patients received dihematoporphyrin ethers intravenously 48 to 72 hours before laparotomy at doses of 1.5 to 3.0 mg/kg . at operation , as much tumor as possible was resected . red light ( 630 nm ) was delivered to all peritoneal surfaces from an argon-pumped dye laser at doses ranging from 0.2 to 3.0 j/cm2 in an escalating fashion . viscera and peritoneal surfaces were anatomically isolated and exposed to light for intervals calculated to deliver the prescribed energy . light was delivered to mesentery and bowel by a flat-cut optical fiber , while other areas , including diaphragm , viscera , omental bursa , gutters , and pelvis , were delivered light through a diffusing wand . twenty-three patients ( 13 with ovarian cancer , eight with sarcoma , and two with pseudomyxoma peritoneii ) underwent photodynamic therapy . five of eight patients cleared positive peritoneal cytologies after treatment . six patients remained clinically free of disease for up to 18 months , and five patients had treatment-related complications . intraperitoneal phototherapy is technically feasible and deserving of clinical evaluation . 
nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in aids patients . objective -- to describe a nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis during four months after june 1989 . setting -- a department of infectious diseases in copenhagen , seeing about half the patients with aids in denmark . subjects -- 73 hiv antibody negative subjects and 60 antibody positive subjects admitted as inpatients during the transmission period of the outbreak ( 20 june-14 august ) , of whom 18 ( 17 with aids , one with aids related complex ) , developed cryptosporidiosis . two further hiv negative subjects ( one departmental secretary , one visiting relative ) developed cryptosporidiosis . main outcome measures -- cryptosporidia in stool samples , clinical symptoms , cd4 cell count , hiv antigen concentration , chemotherapeutic treatment . results -- the source of the outbreak was identified as ice from an ice machine in the ward , contaminated by an incontinent , psychotic patient with cryptosporidiosis picking out ice for cold drinks . the mean incubation time was at least 13 days-that is , twice that in hiv-negative patients . of the 18 patients with aids who developed cryptosporidiosis , five recovered , two were symptomless carriers , three died of unrelated causes , and eight died after prolonged diarrhoea . among the 57 exposed hiv antibody positive inpatients ( excluding two patients and the index case with cryptosporidiosis diagnosed elsewhere ) , significantly more of those who developed symptomatic cryptosporidiosis received oral sulphonamides than those who did not ( 91 % , 10/11 v 48 % , 21/44 , p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- the clinical and epidemiological findings indicate that infection was the consequence of very small inocula . increased sensitivity to cryptosporidiosis may be an unrecognised side effect of oral sulphonamide treatment in patients with aids . 
magnetic resonance angiography of abdominal vessels : early experience using the three-dimensional phase-contrast technique . based on three-dimensional acquisition of three sequences sensitive to one flow-direction , abdominal magnetic resonance phase-contrast angiography ( mra ) was performed in 13 volunteers and 20 patients . the subjects received no antiperistaltic medication and were allowed to breath normally during the three acquisition periods of 11 minutes . the frequency of demonstration of the normal aorta , superior mesenteric and right and left renal arteries was 100 % / 100 % / 91 % / 100 % , and of the inferior vena cava , splenic , superior mesenteric and portal veins was 92 % / 67 % / 92 % / 100 % , respectively , whereas other abdominal vessels were seen less constantly . in renal artery stenosis or occlusion , mra detected eight out of nine pathological arteries , missed only a minimal stenosis and was never false positive . in all 10 cases of portal hypertension , mra demonstrated the venous collaterals detected by conventional angiography and in six cases showed more collaterals , particularly paravertebral vessels . a budd-chiari syndrome was investigated as well . if the accuracy of mra can be proved in larger studies , it may become an important diagnostic tool in evaluating abdominal vascular pathology , such as renal artery stenosis or portal hypertension . 
ultrasound in the investigation of the right iliac fossa mass . patients presenting with a right iliac fossa ( rif ) mass are a diagnostic problem . the objective of this study was to assess the role of ultrasound ( us ) in their investigation . a prospective series of 50 patients presenting with a clinically suspected rif mass was examined by us and the finding correlated with the final diagnosis . there was a positive finding in 34 patients ( 68 % ) . ultrasound correctly identified the organ of origin in 33 ( 97 % ) and was able to guide the patients ' further management . in 12 cases no abnormality was found in the rif , of which 11 had no positive findings at follow-up and one was shown to have an unrelated abnormality at laparotomy . in four cases the findings were due to normal variants . ultrasound is the imaging modality of first choice in patients presenting with a rif mass . 
recurrence of crohn 's disease after resection . recurrent crohn 's disease develops in most patients after surgical resection if the patient is followed for sufficient time . this review examines various aspects of recurrent crohn 's disease . it is concluded that crohn 's disease is a diffuse condition of the gastrointestinal tract and that radical resection of crohn 's disease does not prevent recurrence . assorted factors thought to be associated with recurrence are examined and the relevance of these factors to the surgeon treating crohn 's disease is discussed . 
importance of the omentum in the development of intra-abdominal metastases . areas of trauma are preferred sites for metastatic tumour growth . in extensive intra-abdominal tumour recurrence the omentum is invariably involved . the importance of the omentum in the development of tumours at sites of intra-abdominal trauma has been investigated . colonic anastomoses were performed in hooded-lister rats with and without omentectomy . animals received intraluminal or intraperitoneal injections of a syngeneic tumour . with intraluminal injection , tumour occurred at the anastomosis and in the omentum in 38 and 43 per cent of animals respectively but following omentectomy the values were 14 and 9 per cent ( omental remnant ) . with intraperitoneal administration tumour occurred in 53 per cent at the anastomosis and in 79 per cent in the omentum compared with 16 and 29 per cent ( in omental remnant ) following omentectomy . in this model a reduced ability of an anastomosis to support ' seeded ' tumour following removal of the omentum is demonstrated and the development of local recurrence from spilled tumour cells during operation may be enhanced by , or be dependent on , the proximity of the omentum . 
proximal gastric vagotomy : follow-up at 10-20 years . from august 1969 to december 1989 , 600 patients had elective proximal gastric vagotomy for duodenal ulceration with an operative mortality of 0.2 per cent . of these , 372 patients had surgery over 10 years ago . three hundred and forty-two patients survived for more than 10 years and , in a prospective study , 305 were reviewed , forming the basis of this 10-20-year follow-up report . forty-six ( 15 per cent ) have had recurrent ulceration ; 80 per cent of these developed symptoms within 5 years and no patient has had recurrence after 13 years . although 29 patients required reoperation for recurrent ulceration , the current patient satisfaction rate for visick grades i and ii is 92 per cent . only two patients required reoperation because of gastric stasis . it is concluded that proximal gastric vagotomy is a safe and satisfactory first choice operation for duodenal ulceration . 
gastric adaptive relaxation and symptoms after vagotomy . gastric adaptive relaxation is reported to be impaired after vagotomy . this abnormality has been implicated in the pathogenesis of postvagotomy symptoms , but no association has previously been demonstrated between the two . gastric adaptive relaxation was measured in 15 healthy volunteers and 33 patients more than 1 year after highly selective vagotomy or truncal vagotomy and drainage . seventeen patients were asymptomatic . the remainder were symptomatic including seven patients with persistent diarrhoea . fasted subjects were intubated with a ryle 's tube containing a pressure microtransducer within a flaccid ( 800 ml ) plastic bag . gastric corpus-fundus pressure was recorded during distension of the bag with air ( 15 ml/s ) over 30 s. pressure indices were derived from the areas under the pressure curves . median ( range ) pressure indices were : healthy volunteers 12.7 ( 7.5-17 .1 ) cmh2o , highly selective vagotomy 14.0 ( 9.8-15 .9 ) cmh2o ( n.s. ) , truncal vagotomy and drainage 14.5 ( 8.6-26 .8 ) cmh2o ( p = 0.04 ) . all patients with diarrhoea had abnormally high pressure indices ( p less than 0.001 ) . pressure indices in all other patient groups were within the normal range . we conclude that gastric adaptive relaxation remains abnormal in patients with postvagotomy diarrhoea but not in those who are asymptomatic or who have other symptoms . 
peptic ulcer surgery during the h2-receptor antagonist era : a population-based epidemiological study of ulcer surgery in helsinki from 1972 to 1987 . to evaluate the effects of improvements in medical therapy on the incidence of , indications for and operative methods used in peptic ulcer surgery , all cases of primary peptic ulcer surgery among adults in the city of helsinki in the years 1972 , 1977 , 1982 and 1987 were analysed . there was a total of 565 such cases in a population which consisted of 5.2 x 10 ( 5 ) individuals in 1972 and 4.8 x 10 ( 5 ) individuals in 1987 . the introduction of h2-receptor antagonists in 1979 was associated with a fall in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer operations , from 15.5 to 6.7 per 10 ( 5 ) individuals , and a fall in the annual incidence of elective gastric ulcer operations , from 9.4 to 3.1 per 10 ( 5 ) individuals ( p less than 0.05 ) . the decrease was greatest among males with duodenal ulcer . in contrast , the annual incidence of emergency surgery for ulcer haemorrhage and perforation ( all types of ulcers ) remained relatively stable , varying from 7.2 to 10.2 per 10 ( 5 ) inhabitants over the observation period ( n.s. ) . the mean age of patients undergoing elective surgery remained essentially unchanged . the mean age of patients undergoing emergency surgery increased . the decrease in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer surgery occurred mainly in relation to proximal gastric vagotomy . there was a concomitant relative increase in the incidence of gastric resection . the types of operative procedures used in cases of pyloric , prepyloric and gastric ulcer remained unchanged over the years 1972 to 1987 . 
correlation between laboratory findings and clinical outcome after restorative proctocolectomy : serial studies in 20 patients with end-to-end pouch-anal anastomosis . clinical function and anorectal physiological function were assessed and correlated in 20 patients with ulcerative colitis before restorative proctocolectomy and 3 , 7 , and 12 months after operation . the entire anal sphincter was preserved by means of a stapled pouch-anal anastomosis . before operation , the median resting anal pressure was 79 cmh2o ( interquartile range 70-89 cmh2o ) , the rectoanal inhibitory reflex was present in all patients and anorectal ' sampling ' was noted in 16 of 20 patients . three months after operation , resting anal pressure was 68 cmh2o ( range 50-87 cmh2o ) ( p less than 0.001 ) , the reflex was present in only three patients ( p less than 0.001 ) and sampling was observed in one patient . after 7 months , resting anal pressure was 76 cmh2o ( range 64-89 cmh2o ) , the reflex was present in 11 patients and sampling was observed in nine patients . at 12 months , resting anal pressure was 84 cmh2o ( range 66-94 cmh2o ) , the reflex was present in 19 patients and sampling was observed in 17 patients . the compliance and capacity of the reservoir increased significantly . ability to discriminate flatus from faeces was associated with return of the rectoanal reflex and sampling . 
stools containing altered blood-plasma urea : creatinine ratio as a simple test for the source of bleeding . the plasma urea : creatinine ratio ( u : c ratio ) is known to be elevated in cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding . almost all patients with haematemesis have upper gastrointestinal ( or generalized ) bleeding so that in this study we characterized the diagnostic power of the u : c ratio in patients with stools containing altered blood without haematemesis in the hope that this simple laboratory test ( used in conjunction , perhaps , with clinical data ) might reduce the number of patients subjected to an unrewarding gastroscopy or colonoscopy . of 76 cases seen in a provincial and a metropolitan hospital , 42 and 34 patients had upper and lower gastrointestinal bleeding , respectively . fifty-four per cent of those with upper gastrointestinal bleeding and none of those with lower gastrointestinal bleeding had u : c ratios above 110 on admission . however , a discriminating level of 90 is considered to be more suitable , judged by the quadratic uncertainty score . at this level the odds for upper gastrointestinal bleeding were 15:1 . 
changes in anal canal sensation after childbirth . obstetic trauma predisposes to faecal incontinence . anal canal sensation is impaired in incontinent patients . to assess the effect of childbirth on anal canal sensation anal mucosal electrosensitivity was measured in 122 primiparous patients in the immediate postnatal period and in 74 at 6 months postpartum . there were 35 normal vaginal deliveries , 36 forceps deliveries , 20 ventouse extractions , ten vaginal breech deliveries and 21 caesarean sections . sensation was impaired in the lower , mid and upper anal canal immediately after delivery in those patients who had a normal vaginal delivery or a forceps delivery when compared with controls or with those delivered by caesarean section . women who had ventouse deliveries had impaired sensation immediately after delivery in the mid anal canal compared with controls and those undergoing caesarean section . by 6 months there were no differences between any group . patients who sustained a division of the external anal sphincter at delivery had impaired sensation which persisted in the upper anal canal at 6 months . 
role of the protease-antiprotease balance in peritoneal exudate during acute pancreatitis . the peritoneal exudate formed during experimental pancreatitis is toxic when administered intraperitoneally or intravenously to other animals . overwhelming of the peritoneal antiprotease defences by proteolytic enzymes released from the pancreas may be a key factor responsible for this toxicity and is examined in the current study . human pancreatitis exudates possessed tryptic amidase activity indicating trypsinogen activation . the trypsin inhibitory capacities of exudates were reduced indicating a degree of consumption of the peritoneal antiproteases . of 21 exudates examined , three showed marked reduction of their trypsin inhibitory capacity indicating almost complete consumption of their antiproteases . all three patients were shocked at the time of sampling , two dying of fulminant pancreatitis within 24 h. overwhelming of the peritoneal antiproteases was not confirmed , but may occur in a few instances where proteolytic enzyme release or zymogen activation continues . intraperitoneal administration of exogenous antiproteases prolongs survival in rats with pancreatitis and has been suggested as a therapy in man . the current data suggests that few patients are likely to benefit from such an approach . 
neonatal small bowel atresia , stenosis and segmental dilatation . in 8 years , 44 neonates were treated for small bowel atresia , stenosis or segmental dilatation by one surgical team . there was a single lesion in 30 infants and 14 had two or more sites of intestinal obstruction . associated gastrointestinal abnormalities were found in 23 ( 52 per cent ) patients . resection of the atresia ( s ) and primary anastomosis were performed in 34 infants and staged procedures were carried out in ten patients with complicated lesions . patients undergoing staged procedures had a higher complication rate than those having primary repair ( six out of ten and 11 out of 34 respectively ) . the overall initial survival rate was 93 per cent , rising to 100 per cent in those without associated anomalies or prenatal complications , but more than a quarter ( 27 per cent ) of survivors have long-term disabilities . 
advantages of a narrow-range , medium molecular weight hydroxyethyl starch for volume maintenance in a porcine model of fecal peritonitis objective : to compare the effectiveness of two hydroxyethyl starch solutions of different molecular weight ranges for volume maintenance in a porcine model of fecal peritonitis . design : randomized prospective trial . setting : laboratory investigation . subjects : adolescent female pigs weighing approximately 30 kg . interventions : we compared diafiltered 6 % pentastarch with 6 % high molecular weight hetastarch for volume maintenance in a porcine model of fecal peritonitis . the number average molecular weight of pentastarch is higher than hetastarch , although the weight average molecular weight is lower , i.e. , a narrow range of medium weight molecules . the infusion rate of each agent was adjusted to maintain baseline arterial hct for less than or equal to 7 hr after instrumentation and induction of fecal peritonitis . main outcome measurements : the volume of fluid required to maintain arterial hct was compared along with comparisons of hemodynamic and histologic responses associated with the two agents . results : significantly less pentastarch was required to prevent hemoconcentration than hetastarch ( 109 + / - 22.8 vs. 150 + / - 10.3 ml/kg ; p less than .05 ) while hemodynamics , colloid osmotic pressure , and oxygen transport responses were similar . capillary patency was greater ( 21.99 + / - 3.68 vs. 10.09 + / - 1.17 % ; p less than .05 ) and mean alveolar capillary barrier thickness was less ( 2.36 + / - 0.13 vs. 3.06 + / - 0.17 microns ; p less than .05 ) with pentastarch than with hetastarch , as judged by electron microscopy . conclusions : these data suggest that pentastarch is better retained in the circulation in capillary leak syndromes compared with hetastarch . 
incontinence and rectal prolapse : a prospective manometric study . a prospective , manometric study has been performed on 23 female patients with rectal prolapse and varying degrees of incontinence . seven of the 14 incontinent patients regained continence after surgery , and a further two patients improved . improvement in internal and external sphincter function follows correction of rectal prolapse . preoperative resting anal pressure was significantly higher in continent patients than in incontinent patients ( p less than 0.05 ) , as was the maximum voluntary contraction pressure ( p less than 0.027 ) . postoperatively there was a significant increase in the resting anal pressure ( p less than 0.0001 ) and maximum voluntary contraction pressure ( p less than 0.003 ) in the whole group . the preoperative resting anorectal angle was significantly more acute ( p less than 0.028 ) in continent patients than in incontinent patients . there was no significant change in the resting anorectal angle following prolapse repair . patients who remained incontinent had a significantly lower preoperative resting anal pressure ( p less than 0.01 ) than patients who improved or regained continence . similarly , maximum voluntary contraction pressure was lower preoperatively in these patients ( p less than 0.02 ) . preoperative resting anal pressure below 10 mm hg and maximum voluntary contraction pressure below 50 mm hg are associated with persisting incontinence after surgery . 
vascular responsiveness in obstructed gut . multiorgan system failure due to hypotension and sepsis is an important cause of death in patients with bowel obstruction . we have investigated the pathophysiology of this entity in an animal model . after 5 days of bowel obstruction , blood flow in the superior mesenteric artery was measured with and without pitressin and norepinephrine given in separate experiments . in controls , pitressin in moderate dosages caused a substantial fall in gut blood flow , which was not seen in obstructed animals ( blood flow reduction 52 percent vs. 11 percent in sham and obstructed animals respectively , p less than 0.01 ) . similarly , norepinephrine infusion had less of an effect on gut blood flow in obstructed animals ( blood flow reduction 79 percent vs. 58 percent sham vs. obstructed animals ( p less than 0.05 ) . thus , both agents had dose-related effects on gut blood flow , which was maintained at a higher level throughout the drug infusion periods in the bowel of obstructed animals , demonstrating that splanchnic flow is less responsive to vasoactive drug infusion under these experimental conditions . because splanchnic vasoconstriction is an important feature of normal hemodynamic homeostasis , we suggest that these results may help explain some aspects of the pathophysiology of multiorgan failure caused or worsened by systemic hypotension seen in bowel obstruction . 
clostridium difficile -- a common and costly colitis . clostridium difficile infection manifests as a self-limiting diarrhea , protracted colitis , or toxic pseudomembranous colitis . the incidence of c. difficile in a 514-bed community hospital was studied retrospectively ; 155 patients of a total 18,262 admitted during 1988 were identified with c. difficile as an admitting or subsequent diagnosis . the method of diagnosis , mode of therapy , and related costs were analyzed . we have determined that education , with an emphasis on pathogenesis and prevention , is necessary to reduce the incidence in the hospital and the cost to the patient . 
loop ileostomy after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis -- is it necessary ? construction of a loop ileostomy is usually advised in patients having an ileal pouch-anal anastomosis to minimize the complication of chronic pelvic sepsis . formation and closure of a loop ileostomy was associated with a 41 percent and 30 percent complication rate , respectively , in a prospective series of 34 patients . this morbidity must now be assessed in relation to the benefits of avoiding temporary fecal diversion in restorative proctocolectomy . 
surgical treatment of low rectovaginal fistulas . forty women with low rectovaginal fistulas were operated upon over a 9-year period . the etiology of the fistula in the majority was obstetric . nine women had prior attempts to repair the fistula . all 40 women were managed with endorectal advancement flap with the addition of sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction in 15 patients and rectocele repair in six patients . postoperative complications included urinary difficulties ( two patients ) and wound complications ( three patients ) . there were two recurrences . all women treated with sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction were continent . seven women complained of varying degrees of incontinence postoperatively ; none had undergone sphincter or perineal body reconstruction . endorectal advancement flap is a safe and effective operation for women with rectovaginal fistulas . concomitant sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction should be performed in women with historical , physical , or manometric evidence of incontinence . 
dysplasia and dna aneuploidy in a pelvic pouch . report of a case . a patient with an 18-year history of ulcerative colitis was operated on with colectomy , mucosal proctectomy , ileoanal anastomosis , and an s-type pelvic pouch due to intractable chronic continuous disease . the patient was followed by endoscopic controls and biopsy sampling from the pouch at regular intervals . a gradual development of severe atrophy in the ileal mucosa was followed by the development of low grade dysplasia . at the most recent endoscopic control , 4 years after the construction of the pouch , biopsies were sampled also for flow cytometric dna analyses . dna aneuploidy was detected in a biopsy from the center of the pouch , and a biopsy taken immediately adjacent showed low grade dysplasia . these findings underline the importance of endoscopic follow-up after construction of a pelvic pouch and focus attention to the potential of malignant transformation of the mucosa . 
geriatric constipation : brief update on a common problem . constipation occurs frequently in the elderly and is often multifactorial in origin . a search for an underlying cause is necessary , and can often be found by taking an adequate history and performing a thorough physical examination . a minority of patients require further investigation , guided by the clinical setting . management should be directed at correcting the underlying cause and providing dietary advice and , less commonly , medication to allow restoration of a normal bowel habit . 
hyposensitivity to vasopressin in patients with hepatitis b-related cirrhosis during acute variceal hemorrhage . it has been suggested that vasopressin given during hemorrhage may be less effective than when given during a stable state in a portal-hypertensive rat model . this study was designed to evaluate the hemodynamic response to vasopressin infusion in 25 hbsag-positive cirrhotic patients . nine patients had active variceal hemorrhage before vasopressin infusion , and the other 16 patients were in a stable condition at the time of infusion . the two groups of patients were similar in baseline values except that a higher heart rate was found in patients with hemorrhage ( 96 + / - 20 vs. 73 + / - 10 beats/min , mean + / - s.d. , p less than 0.01 ) . thirty minutes after vasopressin infusion ( 0.66 units/min ) , hepatic venous pressure gradient significantly decreased in both bleeding and stable patients ( from 21 + / - 9 to 18 + / - 9 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ; and from 18 + / - 4 to 8 + / - 3 mm hg , p less than 0.0001 , respectively ) . however , the decrease of hepatic venous pressure gradient was less obvious in bleeding patients as compared with stable patients ( 4 + / - 3 vs. 9 + / - 2 mm hg , p less than 0.0001 ) . a significant reduction of hepatic venous pressure gradient after vasopressin infusion was found in five bleeding patients without shock ( from a median of 16 mm hg [ range = 12 to 26 ] to 11 mm hg [ range = 6 to 18 ] , p less than 0.05 ) , but not in four bleeding patients with shock ( from 28 [ range = 15 to 36 ] to 25 [ range = 18 to 33 ] mm hg , p greater than 0.05 ) . 
expression of x protein and hepatitis b virus replication in chronic hepatitis . the x protein can act on the enhancer of hepatitis b virus in an in vitro system and elevate the transcriptional level of hepatitis b virus . however , because no relationship had been reported between x protein expression and hepatitis b virus replication in patients with chronic hepatitis b , we focused on its expression in the liver in comparison with markers of hepatitis b virus replication . liver biopsy samples and sera from 59 carriers with hbsag were examined immunohistochemically for x protein using rabbit igg against recombinant x protein . there was a significant difference in the serum hepatitis b virus dna level between x protein-positive and - negative patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . serum pre-s1 and pre-s2 antigens were also measured quantitatively by enzyme immunoassay using monoclonal antibodies specific against each antigen . the titers of pre-s1 antigen in patients positive for x protein were significantly higher ( p less than 0.001 ) than those of the x protein-negative patients ( 3.02 + / - 0.99 vs. 2.00 + / - 0.59 , respectively ) . similarly , the titers of pre-s2 antigen were 2.98 + / - 0.91 vs. 1.94 + / - 0.54 , respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) . the rate of positivity of the x protein was higher ( 38 of 49 ; 77.6 % ) in the replicative group ( serum hbeag , serum hepatitis b virus dna or hbcag in liver positive ) compared with that observed in the nonreplicative group ( 3 of 10 ; 30 % -- serum hbeag , serum hepatitis b virus dna and hbcag in liver negative ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
development and application of an in vitro model for screening anti-hepatitis b virus therapeutics . the development of effective anti-hepatitis b virus agents has been hampered by the lack of reliable in vitro systems for the screening of new therapeutics . in an effort to circumvent this problem , we have developed an in vitro system for screening anti-hepatitis b virus drugs using hepatitis b virus dna-transfected hep g2 cells . the cell line designated 2.2.15 produces replicative viral dna intermediates , mature dane particles and high levels of viral antigens . subconfluent 2.2.15 cells were treated with a variety of commonly used anti-hepatitis b virus therapeutics , and their efficacy was determined by analyzing changes in the replicative cellular or extracellular hepatitis b virus dna content by southern blotting or slot-blot hybridization . the slot-blot method was sensitive , reproducible and rapid and correlated well with southern blotting . analysis of the media for hepatitis b virus dna was indicative of changes in intracellular , replicative hepatitis b virus dna , permitting sampling of the media . therefore 2.2.15 cells may provide a valuable method for identifying and monitoring effective anti-hepatitis b virus therapeutics . using this system to test various agents , we confirm that 2 ' - deoxyguanosine strongly inhibited viral replication , whereas others tested were less effective . correlation with in vivo systems is now needed . 
transcatheter oily chemoembolization in the management of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in cirrhosis : results of a western comparative study in 60 patients . transcatheter oily chemoembolization is widely used as palliative therapy for inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma in high-incidence asiatic areas . to assess its usefulness in the western form of this cancer , 30 french patients were treated between 1987 and 1990 by intraarterial hepatic injection of a lipiodol-doxorubicin emulsion followed by embolization with 0.5 to 1 mm gelatin sponge particles . the number of procedures ranged from one to five . all patients had advanced , symptomatic and inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma ( okuda 's staging : i , n = 8 ; ii , n = 14 ; iii , n = 8 ) ; none was found under systematic screening . all had underlying cirrhosis ( child-pugh 's class : a , n = 15 ; b , n = 12 ; c , n = 3 ) that was alcoholic in origin in 27 cases and posthepatitic b in origin in 3 cases . the results of the treatment were assessed by comparison with a group of 30 untreated patients admitted to the same unit between 1984 and 1987 . patients of both groups were closely matched for clinical presentation , global disease staging and precise anatomical extension . the overall 1 - and 2-yr survival rate was 59 % and 30 % , respectively , for the treated patients vs. 0 % at 1 yr for the untreated patients . the latter all died from local disease with end-stage liver failure and/or uncontrollable variceal bleeding . in the former , the three patients with child 's class c cirrhosis died after the first procedure . during the follow-up ( range = 3 to 26 mo ) , 11 additional patients died , 8 from metastatic generalization . 
the role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy . mixed disulfides of methanethiol represent a relative estimate for an exposure to methanethiol . the concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides , methionine , 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and ammonia were measured in patients with different stages of hepatic encephalopathy , in patients with chronic kidney failure and in healthy subjects . in patients with hepatic encephalopathy , the mean serum concentrations of all these compounds were elevated . however , the elevations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were small and partly caused by decreased renal function . in addition , the levels of methanethiol-mixed disulfides did not differ significantly between the different grades of hepatic encephalopathy . the concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were substantially lower than those previously observed in healthy subjects after an oral methionine load or in a patient with a deficiency in methionine adenosyltransferase , the latter without causing encephalopathy . we concluded that the role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy is probably minor , if not insignificant . in the patients with hepatic encephalopathy , a significant correlation was found between the concentrations of methionine and 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and between 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and methanethiol-mixed disulfides , supporting the theory that methanethiol is formed by way of the methionine transamination pathway . evidence is provided that , besides the methionine transsulfuration pathway , the transamination pathway is also impaired in patients with hepatic encephalopathy . 
markers of chronic alcohol ingestion in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis : an aid to diagnosis . we report here the use of the biochemical marker desialylated transferrin to aid in the diagnosis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis . conventional biochemical tests used for the detection of chronic alcohol consumption fail to differentiate nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients from alcoholic subjects . in addition , even in those alcoholic subjects with alcoholic liver disease in whom biopsy has been performed , it is impossible to differentiate these two disease states on the basis of morphological examination alone . in this study we have examined two new markers of excessive alcohol intake , desialylated transferrin and mitochondrial ast in subjects with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and in patients consuming excessive amounts of alcohol . all nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients consumed minimal or no alcohol and were diagnosed by morphological criteria based on liver biopsy specimens . alcoholic subjects were consuming in excess of 80 gm/day ethanol , often with clinical evidence of overt alcoholism . control subjects included both healthy controls and patient controls with liver diseases unrelated to alcohol . the ratio of desialylated transferrin/total transferrin was elevated only in patients who consumed excessive amounts of alcohol , whereas the ratio of mitochondrial ast to total ast ( mitochondrial ast/total ast ) was not significantly different between alcoholic subjects and patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis . the sensitivity and specificity for the ratio desialylated transferrin/total transferrin was 81 % and 98 % , respectively , whereas the sensitivity for the mitochondrial ast/total ast ratio was 92 % ; the specificity was only 50 % , indicating that there were a large number of false-positives . all the conventional markers were less sensitive and less specific than the ratio desialylated transferrin/total transferrin . 
hepatic amino-nitrogen clearance to urea-nitrogen in control subjects and in patients with cirrhosis : a simplified method . the functional hepatic nitrogen clearance during amino acid infusion is a measure of liver cell mass . the clinical feasibility of the test has so far been limited by methodological problems . a simplified procedure was used to measure the urea-nitrogen synthesis rate and functional hepatic nitrogen clearance in nine subjects with normal liver function and in nine patients with cirrhosis . the method was based on only four consecutive 2-hr urine collections and five blood samples . total body water was calculated from a nomogram based on age and anthropometric data , whereas the gut urea hydrolysis was assigned one fixed fraction of synthesis ( 0.17 in control subjects and 0.26 in patients with cirrhosis ) . finally , a solution of a single amino acid , alanine , was infused as substrate for urea synthesis . urea-nitrogen synthesis rate increased linearly with increasing alpha-amino-nitrogen concentration , and the slope of the regression ( functional hepatic nitrogen clearance ) was reduced in cirrhosis from 37.5 + / - 7.0 l/hr to 18.4 + / - 6.7 l/hr ; p less than 0.005 . the hepatic nitrogen clearance was linearly related to the clinical status ( child-pugh score ) , to routine liver function tests and to galactose elimination capacity ( r = 0.869 ) , a well-established , quantitative , liver function measure . the simplified method makes the measurement of hepatic nitrogen clearance suitable for routine clinical use . the test might prove useful to study the alterations of nitrogen metabolism in cirrhosis , with special reference to hepatic encephalopathy . 
autoantibodies in primary biliary cirrhosis : analysis of reactivity against eukaryotic and prokaryotic 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complexes . six components of the mammalian 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complexes have previously been identified as m2 autoantigens in primary biliary cirrhosis . in this report , we present data showing that both polypeptide-specific and cross-reacting antibodies are present in patients ' sera . antibodies reacting with e2 of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex cross-react with protein x but not with any other mammalian antigen . the main immunogenic region on protein x has been localized to within its single lipoyl domain . polypeptide-specific antibodies bind to e1 alpha and e1 beta of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex . antibodies reacting with the e2 polypeptides of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex and branched-chain 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complex show some cross-reactivity but do not recognize any of the antigens of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex . antibodies against the e2 component of the mammalian pyruvate dehydrogenase complex cross-react effectively with the corresponding protein from yeast but not with e2 from escherichia coli . antibody titer against mammalian antigens is significantly higher than against the bacterial antigens , arguing against a bacterial origin for primary biliary cirrhosis . 
quantitation of intrinsic drug-metabolizing capacity in human liver biopsy specimens : support for the intact-hepatocyte theory . hepatic drug metabolism is decreased in patients with severe liver disease , but it is unclear to what extent this is due to altered hepatic blood flow or reduced intrinsic metabolic capacity . in this study we quantitated in needle-biopsy specimens the intrinsic capacity of liver tissue from 67 patients with mild liver disease ( n = 36 ) , chronic active hepatitis ( n = 16 ) and cirrhosis ( n = 15 ) to metabolize two model compounds in vitro . hydroxylation of the low-extraction drug bufuralol resulted in the formation of 251 + / - 25 nmol 1 ' oh-bufuralol/gm wet wt/hr in mildly diseased liver tissue and was significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) reduced in liver tissue exhibiting chronic active hepatitis ( 166 + / - 23 nmol/gm wet wt/hr ) and cirrhosis ( 124 + / - 21 nmol/gm wet wt/hr ) . the formation rates of monoethylglycinexylidide , the main metabolite of the high-extraction drug lidocaine , varied widely and were not significantly different among the three groups . to relate the drug-metabolizing capacity to the hepatocyte content of liver tissue , morphometrical study was performed in the biopsy pieces originally submitted . the metabolic activity of each biopsy piece was then related to the fractional volume of hepatocytes it was calculated to contain . in mildly diseased liver tissue 355 + / - 35 nmol 1 ' oh-bufuralol/ml hepatocytes x hr or 12.4 + / - 1.0 mumol monoethylglycinexylidide/ml hepatocytes x hr - and in cirrhotic liver tissue 306 + / - 49 nmol 1 ' oh-bufuralol/ml hepatocytes x hr or 15.3 + / - 3.0 mumol monoethylglycinexylidide/ml hepatocytes x hr -- were formed , respectively , and these differences were not significant . 
in micronodular cirrhosis , hepatocytes retain a normal c-25 hydroxylation capacity toward vitamin d3 : a study using the rat carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhotic model . to test further the competence of the cirrhotic liver to metabolize vitamin d3 at c-25 , hepatocytes were isolated from controls and from ccl4-induced cirrhotic rat livers , as well as from partially hepatectomized rats . the transformation of d3 into 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 was studied in the presence of 10 ( 7 ) hepatocytes at d3 concentrations of 20 nmol/l to 15.4 mumol/l . histologically , micronodular cirrhosis was present in all ccl4-treated rats , whereas controls had normal livers ; portal venous pressure ( p less than 0.008 ) and intrahepatic collagen content ( p less than 0.0001 ) were significantly increased in ccl4-treated rats , whereas no difference was found between the two groups in the total and ionized serum calcium , d3 metabolites , alt , ast and alkaline phosphatase . cytochrome p-450 was 0.27 + / - 0.02 and 0.25 + / - 0.02 nmol/10 ( 6 ) hepatocytes in controls and cirrhotic rats ( n.s. ) , and it significantly increased in both groups after phenobarbital or 3-methylcholanthrene administration ( p less than 0.0001 ) . 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 formation was best described by power law equations and varied between 0.02 + / - 0.0004 and 29.57 + / - 2.8 in controls , and 0.024 + / - 0.0004 and 32.0 + / - 7.0 pmol.hr-1 .10 ( 6 ) hepatocytes-1 in cirrhotic rats . no statistically significant difference was found in the slopes of the 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 formation , but the y-axis intercept was found to be lower in cirrhotic rats under basal resting conditions ( p less than 0.005 ) . inducers of the mixed function oxidases significantly increased 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 formation in controls as well as in cirrhotic rats ( p less than 0.005 ) . moreover , both groups were found to respond similarly to the addition of modulators of the enzyme such as the calcium ionophore a23187 and parathyroid hormone . partial hepatectomy was also without effect on the activation of d3 . furthermore , the cell sequestration of d3 was also found to be unperturbed in hepatocytes obtained from either cirrhotic or partially hepatectomized livers . the data indicate that in well-compensated micronodular cirrhosis , the c-25 hydroxylation of d3 is generally intrinsically normal at the cellular level and that it also remains fully responsive to in vivo and in vitro modulators of its activity . 
rapid induction of hepatic fibrosis in the gerbil after the parenteral administration of iron-dextran complex . the parenteral administration of iron-dextran complex to gerbils caused hepatic hemosiderosis and fibrosis after 6 wk . type i and iii collagen synthesis in the liver developed from perisinusoidal stellate cells that are often referred to as myofibroblasts . immunohistologically these cells were shown to have large intracellular deposits of ferritin . the hepatic fibrosis appeared to be associated with aggregates of these cells rather than the aggregates of kupffer cells , which also occur in hemosiderosis in the liver . no appreciable necrosis of hepatocytes to trigger the fibrotic response was found , so that the fibrosis appeared to be related to the accumulation of ferritin in the perisinusoidal stellate cells . in contrast , rats and mice did not accumulate ferritin in their perisinusoidal cells or develop hepatic fibrosis in response to parenterally administered iron , although they accumulated similar or greater amounts of total iron in their livers . the rapid induction of hepatic fibrosis in gerbils in response to parenterally administered iron will provide a model to investigate the mechanism of induction of collagen deposition in response to iron overload and a means of quickly evaluating therapeutic treatments for iron overload-induced fibrosis in vivo using iron-chelating drugs . 
regulation of collagen production in freshly isolated cell populations from normal and cirrhotic rat liver : effect of lactate . previous work has shown that lactic acid , and to a lesser extent pyruvic acid , is able to increase collagen synthesis significantly in liver slices of ccl4-treated rats but not normal rats . the purpose of this report is to document which cells in the cirrhotic liver are responsible for the lactate-stimulated increase in collagen synthesis . it was found that ( a ) incorporation of 3h-proline into protein-bound 3h-hydroxyproline is increased threefold to fourfold in hepatocytes from ccl4-treated rats as compared with normal rat hepatocytes ; ( b ) neither the hepatocytes from normal nor those from ccl4-treated rats modify their collagen synthesizing capacity when 30 mmol/l lactic acid was added to the incubation medium ; ( c ) nonparenchymal cells obtained from livers of ccl4-treated rats synthesize much less collagen than hepatocytes , but their synthesis is stimulated twofold by lactic acid ; ( d ) from the different nonparenchymal cells , only fat-storing ( ito ) cells increase collagen synthesis when lactic acid is present in the incubation medium . these results suggest that the increased lactic acid levels observed in patients with alcoholic hepatic cirrhosis may play an important role in the development of fibrosis by stimulating collagen production by fat-storing ( ito ) cells . 
trolox protects rat hepatocytes against oxyradical damage and the ischemic rat liver from reperfusion injury . trolox , a hydrophilic analog of vitamin e , was reported to scavenge peroxyl radicals from artificial systems better than its parent compound . here we examined the possible cytoprotective effect of trolox in cultured hepatocytes and in the rat liver . in cultured rat hepatocytes , 0.5 to 16 mmol/l trolox ( with optimum between 1 to 2 mmol/l ) was observed to prolong the survival of cells exposed to oxyradicals generated with xanthine oxidase-hypoxanthine . the protection by 1 mmol/l trolox surpassed that provided by either ascorbate , mannitol , superoxide dismutase and/or catalase -- each at a level giving its maximal protection in the same system . in both a global and partial model of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion in rats , infusion of trolox ( 7.5 to 10 mumol/kg body weight ) just before reflow reduced by greater than 80 % the liver necrosis sustained in untreated ( no trolox ) control rats . such organ salvage was apparently accompanied by approximately 50 % reduction in the amount of hepatic conjugated dienes , which were quantified by a highly specific radiochemical assay . since conjugated dienes are presumed to be good " markers " of oxyradical damage , our data may have provided a semiquantitative link between free radical-induced necrosis and its chemical imprint in vivo . the data also indicated a relatively rapid and potent antioxidant-like action by trolox on rat hepatocytes and on the postischemic reperfused rat liver . 
temporal relationship between the decrease in arterial pressure and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis . it has been proposed that the initial event of sodium retention in cirrhosis is a peripheral arteriolar vasodilation causing underfilling of the arterial vascular compartment and stimulation of the renin-aldosterone and sympathetic nervous systems . to test this hypothesis , systolic blood pressure , sodium balance and urinary excretion of sodium and aldosterone were sequentially measured in 13 conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats submitted to a cirrhosis induction program with carbon tetrachloride and phenobarbital and in 14 control hypertensive animals . no significant differences were found between control and cirrhotic rats in any of the measured parameters during the first 7 wk of the study . the eighth week sodium retention developed in cirrhotic rats as indicated by a positive sodium balance and a marked decrease of sodium excretion . at the same time a significant reduction in systolic blood pressure and a great increase in urinary excretion of aldosterone were detected . these changes were more marked the ninth week of the study . in cirrhotic rats there was a highly significant direct correlation between systolic blood pressure and urinary sodium excretion . postmortem examination showed a histological picture of cirrhosis in all animals given carbon tetrachloride and ascites in six of them . these results indicate that the onset of hyperaldosteronism and sodium retention in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis is chronologically related to a significant decrease in arterial pressure , thus supporting the " peripheral arterial vasodilation hypothesis " of ascites . 
infantile form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiency with hepatomuscular symptoms and sudden death . physiopathological approach to carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiencies . reported cases of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii ( cpt ii ) deficiency are characterized only by a muscular symptomatology in young adults although the defect is expressed in extra-muscular tissues as well as in skeletal muscle . we describe here a cpt ii deficiency associating hypoketotic hypoglycemia , high plasma creatine kinase level , heart beat disorders , and sudden death in a 3-mo-old boy . cpt ii defect ( -90 % ) diagnosed in fibroblasts is qualitatively similar to that ( -75 % ) of two " classical " cpt ii-deficient patients previously studied : it resulted from a decreased amount of cpt ii probably arising from its reduced biosynthesis . consequences of cpt ii deficiency studied in fibroblasts differed in both sets of patients . an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids was found in the proband but not in patients with the " classical " form of the deficiency . the metabolic and clinical consequences of cpt ii deficiency might depend , in part , on the magnitude of residual cpt ii activity . with 25 % residual activity cpt ii would become rate limiting in skeletal muscle but not in liver , heart , and fibroblasts . as observed in the patient described herein , cpt ii activity ought to be more reduced to induce an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids in these tissues . 
apical secretion of lysosomal enzymes in rabbit pancreas occurs via a secretagogue regulated pathway and is increased after pancreatic duct obstruction . lysosomal hydrolases such as cathepsin b are apically secreted from rabbit pancreatic acinar cells via a regulated as opposed to a constitutive pathway . intravenous infusion of the cholecystokinin analogue caerulein results in highly correlated apical secretion of digestive and lysosomal enzymes , suggesting that they are discharged from the same presecretory compartment ( zymogen granules ) . lysosomal enzymes appear to enter that compartment as a result of missorting . after 7 h of duct obstruction is relieved , caerulein-stimulated apical secretion of cathepsin b and amylase is increased , but the ratio of cathepsin b to amylase secretion is not different than that following caerulein stimulation of animals never obstructed . these findings indicate that duct obstruction causes an increased amount of both lysosomal and digestive enzymes to accumulate within the secretagogue releasable compartment but that duct obstruction does not increase the degree of lysosomal enzyme missorting into that compartment . pancreatic duct obstruction causes lysosomal hydrolases to become colocalized with digestive enzymes in organelles that , in size and distribution , resemble zymogen granules but that are not subject to secretion in response to secretagogue stimulation . these organelles may be of importance in the development of pancreatitis . 
gastrointestinal dysfunction and disaccharide intolerance in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus . because gastrointestinal dysfunction is a major problem in children with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , we utilized breath hydrogen measurements to determine the relationship between disaccharide malabsorption and gastrointestinal dysfunction in hiv-infected children . we found a strong association between lactose intolerance and persistent diarrheal disease in this population ( p less than 0.007 , mann-whitney u test ) . we also found evidence of sucrose malabsorption and persistent diarrheal disease in three of the children . extensive microbiologic evaluations failed to reveal an etiologic agent related to the occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms . our findings indicate that disaccharide intolerance is a common occurrence in hiv-infected children with persistent diarrheal disease . careful attention to dietary intake may be required to ameliorate clinical symptoms and to maintain adequate nutrition . 
fundoplication and gastrostomy in familial dysautonomia . fundoplication with gastrostomy has become a frequent treatment for patients with familial dysautonomia , so we evaluated the use of both procedures in 65 patients . although patients differed widely in presenting signs and age , from 5 weeks to 40 years , gastroesophageal reflux was documented in 95 % of patients by cineradiography or ph monitoring . panendoscopy was a useful adjunct . preoperative symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux included vomiting , respiratory infections , and exaggerated autonomic dysfunction . severe oropharyngeal incoordination frequently coexisted and resulted in misdirected swallows with aspiration , dependence on gavage feedings , or poor weight gain and dehydration . follow-up after surgical correction ranged from 3 months to 11 years ; 55 patients ( 85 % ) were available for a 1-year postoperative assessment . we had no instances of surgical death . the long-term mortality rate was 14 % , primarily related to severe preexisting respiratory disease . beyond the first postoperative year , 30 patients had pneumonia attributed to continued aspiration , exacerbation of preexisting lung disease , or recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux . of 11 patients who vomited postoperatively , six had recurrence of reflux . recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux was documented in eight patients ( 12 % ) , and we revised the fundoplication in three patients . the number of patients with cyclic crises was reduced from 18 to 7 ; retching replaced overt vomiting in all but two of these seven patients , neither of whom had recurrence of reflux . because oropharyngeal incoordination was prominent , concomitant use of gastrostomy and an antireflux procedure was especially effective in the treatment of younger patients with familial dysautonomia , before the development of severe respiratory disease . despite the development of severe morning nausea in 15 patients , the combination procedure resulted in significantly improved nutritional status , decreased vomiting , and decreased respiratory problems . appropriate use of gastrostomy feedings also contributed to success of the operation . the generally good outcome of fundoplication with gastrostomy confirms the benefit of this procedure in familial dysautonomia . 
prune belly syndrome in females : a triad of abdominal musculature deficiency and anomalies of the urinary and genital systems . we describe seven female patients with deficient abdominal wall musculature and urinary tract and genital anomalies that represent the female equivalent of the prune belly syndrome . urethral atresia , uterine duplication , and anorectal anomalies occurred frequently . the perinatal mortality rate was high ; of the four surviving patients , renal failure developed in two and renal transplantation was required . the analysis of these cases suggests that urethral obstruction is an important factor contributing to the development of the prune belly syndrome in females . 
relationships of somatic symptoms to behavioral and emotional risk in young adolescents . junior high students ( n = 1508 ) from a midwestern community completed a health behavioral questionnaire that asked the frequency of headache and abdominal pain and of a number of behavioral and emotional risk indicators . headache ( 24 % ) and abdominal pain ( 13 % ) were frequently reported among these young adolescents , particularly among girls . those reporting frequent somatic complaints also reported significantly more behavioral and emotional symptoms indicative of risk ( p less than 0.001 ) . further , the interaction between somatic complaint and gender significantly affected risk status ( p less than 0.01 ) . this interaction was greater with behavioral risk : boys with both abdominal pain and headaches reported higher behavioral risk than all other groups ( p less than 0.0001 ) . somatic symptoms continued to account for a significant amount of variance in behavioral risk after the effects of emotional risk and age were removed . this suggests that behavioral risk and emotional risk are independently associated with somatic complaints . the evaluation of persistent somatic complaints in adolescents , particularly in boys with abdominal symptoms , should include careful examination of emotional risk factors and other health-endangering behaviors such as substance use , early sexual activity , and delinquency . 
blood contacts during surgical procedures operating room personnel are at risk for infection with blood-borne pathogens through blood contact . to describe the nature and frequency of blood contact and its risk factors , trained observers monitored a sample of operations performed by six surgical services at grady memorial hospital , atlanta , ga , for 6 months . in 62 ( 30.1 % ) of 206 operations , at least one blood contact was observed . of 1828 operating room person-procedures observed , 96 ( 5.3 % ) had 147 blood contacts ( 133 skin contacts [ 90 % ] , 10 percutaneous injuries [ 7 % ] , and four eye splashes [ 3 % ] ) . the mean number of blood contacts per 100 person-procedures was highest for surgeons ( 18.6 ) . the frequency of percutaneous injury was similar among surgeons and scrub staff ( mean , 1.2 per 100 worker-procedures for each group ) . risk factors for surgeons ' blood contacts were ( 1 ) performing a trauma , burn , or orthopedic emergency procedure ( odds ratio [ or ] , 4.1 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 2.0 to 8.7 ) ; ( 2 ) patient blood loss exceeding 250ml ( or , 2.1 ; 95 % ci , 1.2 to 3.7 ) ; and ( 3 ) being in the operating room longer than 1 hour ( or , 3.3 ; 95 % ci , 1.6 to 7.1 ) . of 110 blood contacts among surgeons , 81 ( 74 % ) were potentially preventable by additional barrier precautions , such as face shields and fluid-resistant gowns . twenty-one ( 84 % ) of 25 blood contacts among surgeons in procedures in which all three risk factors were present were potentially preventable by additional barriers . of 29 blood contacts among anesthesia and circulating personnel , 20 ( 69 % ) would have been prevented by glove use . for surgical procedures in which operating room personnel are at increased risk of blood contact , reevaluation of surgical technique , use of appropriate barrier precautions , and development of puncture-resistant glove materials are indicated . 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a new endoscopic technique that has diffused throughout the surgical community with great rapidity . although the datta panelists considered the procedure appropriate with respect to both its safety and effectiveness , recognition was made that there are no comparative trials of this technique vs open cholecystectomy and virtually no literature on complication rates . the society of american gastrointestinal endoscopic surgeons has developed minimal credentialing criteria for determining competence in laparoscopic surgery . this includes completion of an approved residency training in general surgery , training in laparoscopic technique either by a surgeon experienced in this procedure or by completion of an approved course in the technique requiring hands-on laboratory practice , and observation or proctoring of an actual surgical procedure . many of the datta panelists ( 35 of 40 [ 87.5 % ] ) reiterated the importance of requiring that the procedure be performed first with animals and that subsequent laparoscopic procedures on patients be done under the supervision of an expert in laparoscopic cholecystectomy . 
polyglucosan body disease . adult polyglucosan disease has been described in 15 cases . all had signs of peripheral neuropathy , upper motor neuron signs , and 12 of the 15 had sphincter problems . dementia was prominent in 8 of 15 cases . we reported 2 cases that contained these clinical features . electrophysiological studies showed axonal neuropathy . somatosensory evoked potentials on the second patient were abnormal . sural nerve biopsy showed clusters of polyglucosan bodies . although the presence of polyglucosan bodies in biopsy is nonspecific , the number as well as the clinical features are necessary to make the diagnosis . branching enzyme activity in muscle extracts of the muscles were normal . hence , a specific enzyme abnormality is not yet known . 
abnormal liver enzyme levels . evaluation in asymptomatic patients . chronic elevation of serum aminotransferase levels , even in the absence of symptoms , often reflects chronic hepatitis or other significant underlying liver disease . patients with persistently abnormal alkaline phosphatase levels may have extrahepatic biliary tract disease or a chronic cholestatic disorder . physicians can discover unsuspected liver disease without undue risk , expense , or inconvenience to the patient by means of the following : a carefully taken history and thorough physical examination , appropriate timing of follow-up blood tests , and timely referral for percutaneous liver biopsy or endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography . 
pancreatic pseudocysts . when to drain , when to wait . acute pain in the upper abdomen in a patient recovering from pancreatitis or abdominal trauma may herald a pancreatic pseudocyst . although small cysts resolve spontaneously , those larger than 6 cm across usually require treatment to prevent such complications as rupture into adjacent structures and infection . the authors describe operative and nonoperative treatment methods and the success reported with each . 
chilaiditi 's syndrome . a diagnostic challenge . chilaiditi 's syndrome should be considered in the differential diagnosis of abdominal and chest pain . although interposition of the right colon is a relatively common radiologic finding , there is a distinct paucity of information in the medical literature . chilaiditi 's syndrome is usually asymptomatic , but when symptoms occur , conservative treatment is usually effective . recognition is important because this syndrome can be mistaken for more serious abnormalities , which may lead to unnecessary surgical intervention . 
peptic ulcer disease . how to treat it now . options for treatment of peptic ulcer disease are becoming more diverse . most new agents are effective yet offer no real advantage over more traditional therapy . however , omeprazole ( prilosec ) may be of benefit owing to its potent inhibition of acid secretion , but it is not yet approved for this purpose . whether treatment of helicobacter pylori infection will prove beneficial is not yet known , but the answer should be forthcoming . finally , as with any disease process , alleviation of risk factors is always important . appropriate counseling regarding use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and cigarette smoking is a necessity . 
long-term medical consequences of incest , rape , and molestation . one hundred thirty-one patients who gave a history of childhood sexual abuse were seen in a general medical practice decades after the event and were compared with a control group . the subject patients were found to be distinct for chronic depression , morbid obesity , marital instability , high utilization of medical care , and certain psychosomatic symptoms , particularly chronic gastrointestinal distress and recurrent headaches . it is clear that these remote events can underlie difficult chronic medical problems . questions about childhood sexual abuse must become part of the practitioner 's review of systems in these difficult cases , if not routinely . 
duodenal stricture : a complication of chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis . over the past 10 years , one of us ( m.c.a. ) has treated 92 patients who required operation for symptoms associated with alcohol-induced chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis . four of these patients had duodenal obstruction . all four had had lateral pancreaticojejunostomy to relieve pancreatic ductal obstruction and associated chronic abdominal pain ; three of the four also required biliary diversion for stenosis of the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct . each duodenal stricture required reoperation and gastrojejunostomy to bypass the site of obstruction . a review of the english language literature revealed that duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis is uncommon , only 58 previous cases having been reported . all of those patients had pancreatic ductal obstruction , and more than half had concomitant distal biliary stenosis . two thirds of the duodenal obstructions were treated by gastroenterostomy , and one third were resected . duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic pancreatitis and biliary stricture appears to reflect an advanced form of the disease . combined lateral pancreaticojejunostomy and biliary diversion has emerged as the preferred surgical procedure for this problem . careful preoperative assessment for evidence of duodenal stenosis also is needed in this group of patients , and gastroenterostomy is indicated in appropriate cases . 
postanginal sepsis with dysphagia . we have described a 10-year-old girl who had dysphagia followed abruptly by arthritis . streptococcus pyogenes was identified as the pathogen by fasciotomy with bone biopsy , and a tonsillar fluid collection confirmed the diagnosis of postanginal sepsis . the patient was cured by a 6-week course of parenteral antibiotics . 
a complex ileovaginal fistula with associated obstructive uropathy in a patient with crohn 's disease : technical considerations and review of the literature . a high index of suspicion of an ileogenital fistula should be aroused by a patient with crohn 's disease , weight loss , malnutrition , and a persistent vaginal discharge . preoperative gastrointestinal and genitourinary evaluation should be used in an attempt to localize the fistulous origin as well as concomitant fistulae . the principles of surgical therapy include preoperative ureteral catheters , resection of the diseased bowel and fistulous segment of bowel , and interposition of healthy tissue ( ie , omentum ) between the bowel anastomosis and the vaginal cuff . 
spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult . we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult . immediate onset of severe upper abdominal pain after overindulgence in food and drink along with radiographic evidence of pneumoperitoneum and the clinical findings of massive abdominal distention , epigastric tenderness , shock , and occasionally subcutaneous emphysema should suggest the possibility of gastric rupture . the treatment is simple , but mortality is high when surgical intervention is not rapid . 
gastric infarction . we have described a patient with an acute condition of the abdomen who had infarction of the stomach and the small intestine due to atheromatous thrombus of celiac and superior mesenteric arteries . we believe this unusual simultaneous occurrence of gastric and small intestinal infarction is coincidental . the outcome of gastric infarction is frequently fatal . 
late arterial hemorrhage secondary to a greenfield filter requiring operative intervention . retroperitoneal hematomas associated with greenfield filters have been described and are generally characterized as clinically insignificant . we report a retroperitoneal hematoma that was associated with a greenfield filter and that required operative intervention because of hemodynamic instability . at operation a lumbar arterial laceration apparently caused by a protruding filter prong was identified and ligated . the implications of this occurrence for filter placement indications are discussed . the potential life-threatening severity of filter-associated hematomas is emphasized . 
possible transmission of serum hepatitis in liver surgery with the ultrasonic dissector . when the ultrasonic dissector is used during liver surgery , the possibility exists of the transmission of virus to the attending hospital personnel because of unavoidable splashing of the irrigating solution . it becomes apparent from this study that the titer of hepatitis b surface antigen in the aspirated irrigating solution is almost the same level as that in the serum . we therefore strongly recommend that eye shields should be used in hepatic surgery when the ultrasonic dissector is in use . 
the role of cholecystokinin in the pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis in the isolated pancreas preparation . in a variety of animal models of acute pancreatitis , cholecystokinin-receptor antagonists have ameliorated the injury response . these results suggest that cholecystokinin may play a primary role in the pathogenesis of pancreatitis initiated by multiple stimuli . in an effort to test this theory , a sensitive and high affinity cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist l364 ,718 was administered to four different models of acute pancreatitis that were produced in the ex vivo perfused canine pancreas preparation . the four models of pancreatitis were initiated by cerulein infusion , partial duct obstruction with secretin stimulation , oleic acid infusion , and a 2-hour period of ischemia . in each model , pancreatitis was manifest by edema formation , weight gain , and hyperamylasemia during a 4-hour perfusion . in cerulein infusion-induced pancreatitis l364 ,718 inhibited edema formation and weight gain ( 31 + / - 5 gm versus 7 + / - 6 gm ; p less than 0.05 ) and significantly decreased plasma amylase activity ( 36,605 + / - 21,216 u/dl versus 9421 + / - 5149 u/dl ; p less than 0.05 ) . the acute pancreatitis induced by the other three stimuli was not ameliorated by l364 ,718 treatment . we conclude that in the ex vivo-perfused canine pancreas preparation cerulein-induced pancreatitis is mediated at least in part by the cholecystokinin receptor . early blockade of the cholecystokinin receptor was of no benefit in treating the other models of pancreatitis , suggesting that cholecystokinin is not involved in the early pathogenesis . 
cystic dilatation of the cystic duct : a new type of biliary cyst . a case of a patient with a congenital cyst that was localized solely to the cystic duct is presented . we propose including this anomaly in the biliary cyst classifications , which currently include choledochal and intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary cysts . the diagnosis and management of this new type of cyst in addition to other types of biliary cysts are discussed . 
malignant melanoma of the biliary tract : a case report . a 58-year-old man was seen with obstructive jaundice and discomfort in the upper abdomen . computed tomographic and ultrasound examinations revealed a soft-tissue mass in the gallbladder . cholecystectomy and choledochotomy revealed a soft black mass in the gallbladder and a second one in the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct . each was diagnosed as malignant melanoma . subsequently , a whipple resection of the pancreas , duodenum , and distal bile duct revealed a melanoma circumferentially invading and obstructing the distal common duct . no lymph node or distant metastasis was identified . repetitive searches for another primary site have been negative . the tumor apparently originated in the biliary tract . the patient remains almost well 2 years after diagnosis . 
inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver . inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver is an extremely rare entity . because of its unusual clinical presentation and confusing histologic picture , a diagnosis of malignancy is frequently made . thus the surgeon is closely involved with the case and extensive procedures are not uncommon . however , this lesion is benign and will even regress spontaneously , making radical surgical procedures contraindicated . the difficulty lies in establishing an accurate diagnosis and the histologic pitfalls of this particular process . conservative therapy can then be applied , avoiding surgical morbidity . 
lymphoma of the gastric stump : report of a case . we report a case of primary lymphoma on a previously resected stomach in a 62-year-old man . the patient was treated 22 years earlier with a partial gastrectomy and billroth ii reconstruction for a benign gastric ulcer . the rarity of this entity and its possible relationship with pseudolymphoma or lymphoid nodular hyperplasia is discussed , and the literature is reviewed . 
gastroesophageal reflux in infants . clinically significant gastroesophageal reflux occurs in one in 500 infants . symptoms resolve in 60 to 80 percent of infants by 18 months of age . thickened formula and position changes are often recommended . medication and surgical intervention may be needed in refractory cases . 
neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract . gastrointestinal motility is the function of gastrointestinal smooth muscle . it is controlled by both the intrinsic and extrinsic nerves of the gastrointestinal tract and , to a lesser degree , the gastrointestinal hormones . therefore , any abnormality of the above factors , theoretically , can cause gastrointestinal dysmotility . in a clinical situation , commonly seen is gastrointestinal dysmotility caused by either smooth muscle or intrinsic and extrinsic nerves dysfunction . diseases that cause smooth muscle dysfunction include familial visceral myopathies , nonfamilial visceral myopathies , collagen disease , muscular dystrophies , amyloidosis , thyroid disease , and so on . diseases that cause enteric nerve dysfunction include familial visceral neuropathies , nonfamilial visceral neuropathies , diabetes mellitus , chagas ' disease , ganglioneuromatosis of the intestine , visceral neuropathy of carcinomatosis , parkinson 's disease , and so on . the patients with neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract have a wide range of clinical manifestations regardless of the underlying cause . at one end of the spectrum , the patients may be asymptomatic , and at the other end of the spectrum , the patients may have functional obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract . plain abdominal x-rays , upper gastrointestinal ( ugi ) and small bowel x-rays , enteroclysis , barium enema , and manometric studies are useful for the work-up of these patients . enteroclysis is especially helpful in ruling out mechanical obstruction of the small intestine in patients with chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction . treatment is mainly symptomatic and supportive . there is no effective drug to improve gastrointestinal motility . surgery may be helpful in selected cases of severe gastrointestinal dysmotility . 
evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma aggressiveness by a panel of extracellular matrix antigens . invasion and metastasis requires a series of interactions between malignant cells and the extracellular matrix ( ecm ) . antigen markers that relate to these interactions were evaluated for prognostic correlation in human hepatocellular carcinoma . basement membrane type iv collagen ( civ ) , type iv collagenase ( civase ) , laminin , and laminin receptors ( lrs ) -- all ecm antigens previously proposed to be modulated in association with tumor aggressiveness -- were immunohistochemically investigated in 30 cases of hepatocellular carcinomas ( hccs ) . the pattern of antigen expression was correlated with 1 ) 36 months ' clinical follow-up and 2 ) the pathologic grade . as a means of estimating the proliferation fraction , an additional antigen , ki67 , was also studied in this series . there were major differences in the distribution of civ and laminin , and in the quantity of civase - , lr - , and ki67-positive cells associated with grade and prognosis . a smaller quantity of civ and laminin and a higher number of civase - , lr - , and ki67-positive cells were detected in the poorly differentiated compared with the well-differentiated hccs . the tumors with lower immunoreactivity for civ and laminin components accompanied by a higher number of civase - , lr - , and ki67-positive cells fall into a group with the poorest overall survival ( p less than 0.006 ) . the panel of antigens is proposed as a useful prognostic tool for evaluating hcc tumor aggressiveness . 
emergency laparoscopy . unnecessary abdominal explorations in severely injured patients can be reduced by employing emergent or urgent laparoscopy in blunt abdominal trauma and the obscured , acute abdominal cases . in 150 blunt abdominal trauma cases , a mini-laparoscopy was used in the emergency room or the intensive care unit without major complications . in 56 % , the findings were negative . in 19 % , the laparoscopic findings were corroborated by surgery . in 25 % , a minimal to moderate hemoperitoneum was found and the laparoscopic impression dictated close observation . unnecessary exploration was avoided except in one case . in the elderly high-risk patient with a poor history , abdominal examination can be noninformative . laparoscopy can detect acute appendicitis or organ perforation . in the young female , appendicitis can be differentiated from pelvic inflammatory disease . laparoscopy is more accurate and gives a larger latitude for decision-making than lavage . it can also be useful in the obscured problematic abdominal case . 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy . with more than 500,000 cholecystectomies performed per year , great interest has developed in laparoscopic cholecystectomy . the procedure offers the patient reduced hospital stay , faster return to work , less pain , and improved cosmetic results . in september 1988 , we developed a technique of performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy that we have now performed in more than 800 cases with good results . the technique allows the surgeon to fully evaluate the common duct via operative cholangiography and has allowed us to use a laparoscopic approach in all patients who were candidates for cholecystectomy . the technique offers a minimally invasive alternative to open cholecystectomy . 
a new technique of surgical treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer without laparotomy by videocoelioscopy . we performed truncal posterior right vagotomy with lesser curve anterior gastric myotomy by videocoelioscopy on 10 patients ( 5 men and 5 women , ranging in age from 19 and 54 years , with a mean age of 32 years ) . all had a long history of chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 3.8 years . the mean length of the operation was 60 minutes ( range : 55 to 110 minutes ) . there was no morbidity , and all patients were discharged after 5 days . the acid secretion tests under basal conditions and under insulin stimulation preoperatively and 1 month postoperatively showed a mean decrease in the basal output of 79.3 % and a mean decrease of 83.04 % in the maximal output . the fibroscopic control at the second postoperative month showed a complete healing of the ulcer in nine patients and a residual ulcer scar in one . no patients had any abdominal complaints . right truncal vagotomy and anterior lesser curve seromyotomy by videocoelioscopy is an efficient and elegant method of treating chronic duodenal ulcer , but it needs thorough experimental practice . 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy using intracorporeal lithotripsy . over a 13-month period ( november 1988 to december 1989 ) , we performed our first 104 laparoscopic cholecystectomies using an intracorporeal ultrasonic lithotripsy technique . the procedure in three of these patients was converted to an open operation because of hemorrhage with unexpected findings of cirrhosis in two patients and dense subhepatic adhesions in a third . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was successfully used in three other patients in whom common bile duct stones were identified . we encountered only three postoperative complications out of all the laparoscopic cholecystectomies performed . one complication was a biliary fistula that closed spontaneously 1 week after surgery . the remaining complications were attributable to abscesses , one subhepatic and one pelvic , which were aspirated and drained laparoscopically . there were no deaths . advantages of the laparoscopic approach included decreased perioperative pain , shortened hospitalization , absence of scar , and more rapid return to prehospitalization activities . 
safe performance of difficult laparoscopic cholecystectomies . laparoscopic cholecystectomy has been advocated for the treatment of uncomplicated symptomatic gallstone disease , but has not been widely advocated for the management of more complicated gallbladder disease such as acute cholecystitis , previous surgery , or common duct stones . during the last 9 months , 360 patients underwent laparoscopic removal of their gallbladder . a total of 138 had a complicated presentation , making surgery more difficult . this article discusses the management of these patients with acute cholecystitis , previous surgery , or common duct disease . using the described techniques , there were no complications or mortality . laparoscopic management of difficult gallbladder problems is safe and effective . 
the los angeles experience with laparoscopic cholecystectomy . surgeons should be competent in diagnostic laparoscopy before performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy ( lc ) . well-structured and endorsed courses with experienced faculty are important . within 12 months , 418 lcs were performed in our hospital . the number of open cholecystectomies decreased to one third of all cholecystectomies performed . cholangiography was attempted routinely and the duct was successfully cannulated in 90 % . inquiries were made at 6 other hospitals within a 5-mile radius where a total of 220 lcs were performed . the following gray areas need to be addressed : patients with slightly increased liver function tests but no jaundice , and unsuspected stones discovered by cholangiography . new projects are in progress to explore the common bile duct via the cystic duct or directly through the common bile duct with insertion of a t tube . the authors recommend proper training as well as caution and sound judgment before commencing with lc . 
the baltimore experience with laparoscopic management of acute cholecystitis . laparoscopic cholecystectomy has rapidly emerged as a popular alternative to traditional laparotomy and cholecystectomy . acute cholecystitis has been considered to be a relative or absolute contraindication to laparoscopic surgery . after gaining extensive experience in laparoscopic biliary tract surgery , this procedure was attempted in 15 patients with acute cholecystitis . all patients were operated on within 72 hours of admission . in five patients , the laparoscopic procedure was converted to an open laparotomy ; in one patient , a localized abscess was found , and in the other four patients , extensive inflammation and edema precluded a safe dissection of the vascular and ductal structures . laparoscopic cholangiography was performed in 14 patients and proved valuable in demonstrating the ductal anatomy . patients were discharged an average of 2.7 days after the laparoscopic procedure . laparoscopic cholecystectomy may be safely performed by experienced surgeons in patients with acute cholecystitis . to ensure a low complication rate , a low threshold for converting the procedure to an open laparotomy must be maintained if the ductal and vascular anatomy can not be safely demonstrated . 
training , credentialling , and granting of clinical privileges for laparoscopic general surgery . despite the lack of scientific data comparing it with traditional open operations , laparoscopic surgery has gained rapid acceptance and implementation by general surgeons . individual hospitals , which have the responsibility for developing their own privileging criteria , are searching for guidance as to the amount and type of additional training required to grant clinical privileges in laparoscopic general surgery . laparoscopic surgery involves techniques different from those learned during general surgery residency training . therefore , until such techniques are regularly included in general surgery residency programs , additional training for and granting of separate privileges in laparoscopic surgery are appropriate . adequate training for surgeons already experienced in abdominal and biliary tract surgery can be acquired through a preceptorship in diagnostic laparoscopy , attending a course in laparoscopic surgery that includes both didactic instruction and live animal experience , assisting with the procedures in humans , and being proctored and certified as competent by an experienced general surgeon . 
atracurium decay and the formation of laudanosine in humans . several groups of investigators have reported that the plasma concentrations of laudanosine , a metabolite of atracurium , are high immediately after administration of atracurium and thereafter decline . such a time profile of a metabolite in plasma is very unusual . the authors describe a model of atracurium decay and laudanosine disposition that satisfactorily explains these data . the model reveals the following : 1 ) each atracurium molecule is degraded into two of laudanosine ; 2 ) the generation of laudanosine occurs through two processes -- a rapid one , involving approximately 31 % of the atracurium dose and proceeding with a half-life of 0.25 min , and a slower one , involving the residual 69 % and proceeding with a half-life of 51 min ; 3 ) atracurium degradation by hofmann elimination proceeds in the central and the noncentral compartments ; 4 ) laudanosine formed from atracurium gains access to its central compartment and disappears from plasma in a biexponential pattern ; 5 ) in cirrhotic patients , only 18 % of the atracurium dose is degraded rapidly and laudanosine is disposed of more slowly . the authors propose that the rapid degradation of atracurium in plasma proceeds through a nucleophilic substitution reaction , with plasma nucleophiles substituting for the laudanosine moiety in atracurium . because both laudanosine moieties in atracurium are required to establish and sustain plasma concentrations of laudanosine , excretion of atracurium or its degradation through pathways not generating laudanosine must be small . 
