osteoma of the middle ear . report of a case . osteomas of the middle ear are rare . we report a case of a 7-year-old boy with osteoma originating from the pyramidal eminence , combined with congenital cholesteatoma . the osteoma and cholesteatoma were successfully removed by tympanomastoidectomy . the long process of the incus and the superstructure of the stapes disappeared . the body of the incus was sculpted and used as a columella . histopathologically , the osteoma was much the same as an external auditory canal osteoma . the possibility of a primary congenital origin of this neoplasm is suggested . 
replacement of an aortic valve cusp after neonatal endocarditis . septic arthritis developed in a neonate after an infection of her hand . despite medical and surgical treatment endocarditis of her aortic valve developed and the resultant regurgitation required emergency surgery . at operation a new valve cusp was fashioned from preserved calf pericardium . nine years later she was well and had full exercise tolerance with minimal aortic regurgitation . 
chondrosarcoma of bone in children . chondrosarcoma of bone rarely occurs in children . this report analyzes the clinicopathologic features in a series of 47 patients with conventional chondrosarcoma who were less than 17 years of age . of the 47 cases , 14 were from the mayo clinic files , and 33 were from our consultation files . most of the lesions occurred in the trunk and upper ends of the long bones , with the humerus being the most frequent skeletal site . twelve of the 47 tumors were secondary . the radiographic findings were the same as those seen in adult chondrosarcoma . pathologically , the tumors were low grade . en bloc resection is the treatment of choice because of the high incidence of local recurrence with lesser surgical margins . prognosis in childhood chondrosarcoma is no different from that in adult chondrosarcoma . none of the patients with follow-up data had metastasis . 
klinefelter 's syndrome with anomalous origin of left main coronary artery klinefelter 's syndrome is a rare entity . even rarer is an anomalous origin of the left main coronary artery . for both conditions to occur in the same patient is hence exceedingly rare . reported here is a never previously reported case of a coronary congenital anomaly in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome together with the proper angiographic approach . 
the importance of calcium ions for in vitro malignant hyperthermia testing . intracellular ca + + levels in skeletal muscle are elevated during the in vitro contracture response of muscle from subjects with malignant hyperthermia . the role of ca + + in the bathing medium and the consequences of substitution of sr + + for ca + + in the response to agents associated with malignant hyperthermia were examined . when ca + + was omitted from the bathing medium the contractures induced in human vastus lateralis by halothane ( three per cent ) or succinylcholine ( 50 mm ) were reduced by 80 and 100 per cent , respectively , while contractures induced by caffeine ( 8 mm ) were only reduced by 50 per cent . substitution of ca + + by another divalent cation , sr + + , completely restored contractures induced by caffeine , but only partially restored contractures induced by halothane or succinylcholine ( to 50 and 30 per cent of ca ( + + ) - containing medium , respectively ) . mepacrine ( 10 microm ) was effective in antagonizing contractures by caffeine , whereas verapamil and nifedipine ( 10 microm ) were not . these results support an essential role for extracellular ca + + not fulfilled by sr + + in contracture induction by halothane and succinylcholine , but not by caffeine . 
intertrochanteric corrective osteotomy in slipped capital femoral epiphysis . a long-term follow-up study of 26 patients . the results of intertrochanteric corrective osteotomy in a series of 26 hips with moderate to severe chronic slipped capital femoral epiphysis are reported from follow-up studies in 1976 and 1986 . in hips with a slippage of less than 40 degrees ( ten hips ) , arthrosis was present in one hip . in the remaining 16 cases in which slippage exceeded 40 degrees , osteoarthrosis was present in 15 , even though correction was adequate . from these observations it can be concluded that intertrochanteric corrective osteotomy does not prevent degeneration in cases with the most severe slip . on the basis of the present observations on treated and untreated cases , the authors advocate treatment by fixation without realignment , accepting the deformity in moderate and severe chronic slips . rotational osteotomy may be considered in the event of hip joint contracture . 
five-year postoperative results of cemented femoral arthroplasty in patients with systemic bone disease . to determine whether bone cellular abnormality affects the results of cemented femoral arthroplasty , 21 patients had biopsies of the iliac crest and femoral cortex at the time of surgery . roentgenographic and histomorphometric studies were used to characterize fibrous membrane formation , cancellous bone , calcar resorption , and bone turnover . patients with high bone turnover and decreased femoral thickness and density before surgery were at risk of developing calcar resorption and cancellous diaphyses , conditions that weaken proximal stem support and lead to early failure . these findings suggest that noncemented stems may be indicated in this group . another group , osteoporotic patients , suffered from osteoblastic insufficiency , which may be the indication for the use of cemented stems rather than noncemented stems , which require bony ingrowth . 
trochanteric fractures . influence of reduction and implant position on impaction and complications . a review of roentgenograms and charts was made of 532 trochanteric fractures treated by the sliding-screw technique . according to evans ' modified classification , 65 % of the fractures were unstable . there was no breakage or bending of implants . twenty ( 3.8 % ) reoperations were performed because of technical complications or nonunion . the singh index revealed more unstable fractures and technical complications in hips with grades 1-3 than in hips with grades 4-6 . reoperation was more frequent if the screw tip was within 8 mm from the subchondral line in the superolateral quadrant or in the anteroproximal quadrant than if the screw ended farther from the subchondral line . fifty-five ( 10.8 % ) of the lag screws migrated 2 mm or more . postoperatively , the neck-shaft angle decreased more in unstable fractures than in stable fractures . the decrease in neck-shaft angle was less when the proximal fragment impinged medially on the shaft fragment . unstable fractures with this type of reduction also impacted less than hips with anatomic reduction or medial reduction of the shaft fragment . weight bearing did not significantly influence the degree of impaction . 
the influence of joint line position on knee stability after condylar knee arthroplasty . using a special knee-testing device , ten knees obtained at autopsy were subjected to varus-valgus , anterior-posterior , and flexion-rotation analysis in the intact state and after total knee arthroplasty . the ten knees showed no significant change in stability after knee replacement when the joint line was maintained in its natural position . when the femoral component was repositioned 5 mm proximally and 5 mm anteriorly , a significant increase in laxity occurred during midflexion . when the joint line was shifted 5 mm distal and 5 mm posterior to its anatomic location , significant tightening occurred in midrange of motion . coupled rotation of the tibia with knee flexion was decreased after surgery in all knees with no specific relationship to joint line position . coupled rotation with varus-valgus testing , however , remained within the normal range through the first 30 degrees of flexion only when the joint line was restored to its normal anatomic position . stability in condylar knee arthroplasty is in part dependent on position of the joint line . surgical techniques that rely on restoring the flexion and extension gap without regard to joint line position may result in alteration of varus-valgus or anterior-posterior displacement in midrange flexion . 
pediatric spondyloarthropathies . seronegative spondyloarthropathies in childhood are often misdiagnosed as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis , but recognition of their distinct clinical manifestations and unique underlying pathophysiologies can aid in making a proper diagnosis . ankylosing spondylitis , reiter 's syndrome , psoriatic arthritis , and the arthritis associated with inflammatory bowel disease are arthritides most often found in young adults , but they may also be present in children . extraarticular manifestations include inflammation of the eyes , skin , gastrointestinal tract , and genitourinary tract associated with inflammation of the entheses . the proper diagnosis will allow for treatment regimens that differ from those usually used for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . early diagnosis and treatment often lead to an early recovery and a return to normal daily activities . 
the relationship between bone morphogenetic protein and neoplastic bone diseases . the monoclonal antibody against bovine bone morphogenetic protein was used for demonstration of bone morphogenetic protein ( bmp ) in neoplastic bone diseases . the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method demonstrated that bmp mainly exists in the cytoplasm of tumor cells of osteosarcoma and chondrosarcoma . immunostaining showed that a majority of osteosarcomas and all of the chondrosarcoma cells contained a large quantity of bmp . conversely , none of the fibrosarcomas showed positive staining . thus , it was possible to differentiate osteosarcomas from fibrosarcomas by immunostaining . in fibrous dysplasia of bone , bmp was abundant in the fibrocellular tissue that had osteogenic activity . in contrast , fibrous tissue of ossifying fibroma showed weak positive staining ; only the osteoblasts rimming the bone showed a positive reaction . immunostaining showed that bmp was also detected in other neoplastic bone diseases such as osteoma , chondroma , and other tumors . 
the influence of growth hormone on the reversibility of articular cartilage degeneration in rabbits . growth hormone has chondrogenic affects on normal as well as on damaged articular cartilage . in this study , the influence of growth hormone is investigated on early degenerative changes in the articular cartilage in 72 new zealand white rabbits . cartilage lesions were created in femoral condyles using an immobilization model . cartilage damage was assessed using biochemical , histologic , and biomechanical criteria . growth hormone had no influence on prevention of immobilization abnormalities but had a significant affect on healing of established lesions . 
effects of corticosteroids on mechanical strength of intervertebral joints and vertebrae in dogs . dogs with hyperadrenocorticism had a higher incidence of intervertebral joint disease , i.e. , disc protrusion or spondylosis . in comparing cases of hyperadrenocorticism with age - and breed-matched controls with hypothyroidism , the incidence was significantly greater than expected . this was not seen , however , in beagle dogs in which the incidence was already high and attributed to chondrodystrophoid tendencies in this breed . to investigate the pathogenesis of this association and its possible relationship to steroid-induced osteopenia , adult dogs were given a placebo , prednisone , or prednisone plus calcium for six months . torque testing of intervertebral joints revealed a consistent trend of lower force to failure in both prednisone-treated groups , but the difference was not statistically significant . in these dogs with mild to moderate hyperadrenocorticism , compression tests of intact vertebral bodies were not significantly different , but blocks of trabecular bone cut from the vertebral bodies failed at significantly lower compressive forces in both prednisone-treated groups compared with controls . histomorphometric evaluation of lumbar vertebral trabecular bone revealed that the percentage of bone volume was not significantly decreased in the prednisone-treated groups . nor was there any difference in the thickness or porosity of vertebral end-plates , which might contribute to weakening of intervertebral ligamentous insertions . 
biomechanical comparison of single - and double-pin fixation for acute slipped capital femoral epiphysis . biomechanics of pin fixation for acute slipped capital femoral epiphysis ( scfe ) was studied in an in vitro immature canine model . acute scfe were created in 24 paired femurs . the paired specimens were pinned with either one or two pins and loaded to failure . strength and stiffness of the paired limbs were expressed as percentages of the loads necessary to create the initial scfe in the intact specimen . strength and stiffness were equivalent statistically for the intact physis and the fractured physis fixed with two pins . single pinning was only 83 % as strong and 78 % as stiff as the intact physeal plate . double-pin fixation is recommended over single-pin fixation for acute scfe . these data , however , should not be extrapolated to the clinical situation of fixation for chronic scfe . 
results of treatment of tibial and femoral osteomyelitis in adults . from january 1 , 1971 , to december 31 , 1985 , 425 patients with chronic osteomyelitis of the femur or tibia were seen at the authors ' institution . the success rate in this recent experience was 84.4 % compared with 50.9 % in the authors ' results published in 1970 . a classification of chronic osteomyelitis is as follows : ( 1 ) hematogenous osteomyelitis ; ( 2 ) osteomyelitis in united fractures ( fracture with union ) ; ( 3 ) osteomyelitis in nonunion ( fracture with nonunion ) ; and ( 4 ) postoperative or posttraumatic osteomyelitis in which bone was not fractured . for management of the scarring of surrounding soft tissue , there has been a change to excision of the scarred tissue and reliance on muscle flap , free-tissue transfer , or closure of soft tissues without irrigation with antibiotic solution . in recent years , free microvascular osseous grafts have permitted more aggressive resection of the involved osseous tissue . the predominance of gram-negative organisms and penicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and the occurrence of methicillin-resistant s. aureus continue . 
ocular complications of rheumatic diseases of childhood . the association between inflammatory ocular and articular disease is a strong one , although the pathogenesis of this relationship is obscure . for the physician or surgeon caring for children with chronic arthritis , awareness of the risk of chronic asymptomatic anterior uveitis is essential if early diagnosis , treatment , and prevention of visual impairment are to be accomplished . this is particularly true for children with pauciarticular-onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis . acute symptomatic anterior uveitis is characteristic of disorders such as ankylosing spondylitis . whereas this disease is initially more unpleasant for the child , it has a good long-term prognosis . 
combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for spinal canal surgery in children and adolescents . spinal deformities , especially kyphosis and instability , after laminectomy for tumors and other diseases , are major clinical problems . since 1981 , combined laminoplasty and posterolateral fusion for the prevention of postlaminectomy spinal deformities was performed on eight male and two female patients aged two to 26 years ( average , 13.9 years ) . the follow-up period was from six months to seven years and three months ( average , three years and five months ) . two patients died six and ten months postoperatively because of brain metastases ( astrocytoma ) and lung metastases ( neuroblastoma ) , respectively . good alignment with no instability of the cervical or thoracic spine was obtained for all patients , including the two who died . laminoplasty combined with posterolateral fusion was found to be very effective in preventing the development of spinal deformities after spinal canal surgery for spinal cord tumors or other diseases in children and adolescents . 
comparison of quantitative sensory-threshold measures for their association with foot ulceration in diabetic patients . we compared the accuracy of cutaneous pressure perception-threshold measurements with that of other sensory-threshold measurements for detecting diabetic foot ulcer patients . three hundred fourteen non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients were studied , of whom 91 had either a current foot ulcer or a history of foot ulceration . foot ulcer patients had much higher pressure perception thresholds at the hallux than those without foot ulcers ( mean + / - se 4.63 + / - 0.05 vs. 3.54 + / - 0.04 u , p less than 0.001 ) . the magnitude of association was higher than that for vibration thresholds and markedly greater than those for cool and warm thresholds . pressure thresholds were highly accurate for identifying foot ulcer patients . at a threshold level of 4.21 u , the sensitivity was 0.84 , with a specificity of 0.96 . at similar sensitivities for vibration and thermal thresholds , specificities were lower . foot ulceration and cutaneous pressure perception threshold are strongly associated . pressure-threshold measurements are extremely accurate and perform at least as well as other quantitative sensory tests in identifying foot ulcer patients . assessment of the foot pressure threshold may have promise as a simple and inexpensive method for detecting diabetic patients at risk for foot ulcers . 
measuring vibration sensations with graduated tuning fork . simple and reliable means to detect diabetic patients at risk of neuropathic foot ulceration . to find a simple and reliable means to measure vibration sensations , 189 diabetic patients and 88 control subjects were tested at different sites with a graduated tuning fork . within-test variation at big toes reached 8.4 % in diabetic patients vs. 2.2 % in control subjects . mean contralateral variation was 7.5 % in diabetic patients vs. 2.5 % in control subjects . tuning-fork sensations were inversely correlated with duration of diabetes , whereas no correlation was found with hba1c levels or the severity of retinopathy . ninety-nine ( 52 % ) patients had vibratory sensation at big toes of less than 99th percentile of normal values for age . in addition , 51 % of the patients with clinical symptoms at extremities ( n = 67 ) , 70 % of the patients without tendon reflexes ( n = 50 ) , and 75 % of the patients with abnormal nerve conduction velocities ( n = 60 ) also had low vibration sensations . all patients with lower-limb injuries ( n = 7 ) had values at big toes of less than 2 . altogether , the graduated tuning fork represents a simple and reliable alternative to quantitate vibration sensations . long-term follow-up of asymptomatic patients will indicate whether these abnormalities reflect underlying neuropathy . patients with abnormal values at screening will necessitate additional investigations and special foot-care education programs . 
chiari pelvic osteotomy for osteoarthritis . the influence of the torn and detached acetabular labrum . we assessed the results of chiari pelvic osteotomy in 64 hips with early osteoarthritis in terms of acetabular labral detachment detected pre-operatively by arthrography . at an average follow-up of four years , assessment by the merle d'aubigne score showed 83 % excellent or good results . these satisfactory results were achieved in only half the cases with a detached labrum , but in nearly all cases with normal or torn acetabular labra . other factors such as the acetabular index , the level and angle of osteotomy , and the displacement following osteotomy did not affect the results . chiari pelvic osteotomy is a worthwhile procedure for early osteoarthritis in selected cases , but a detached acetabular labrum increases the risk of clinical failure . 
the incidence of deep vein thrombosis after cementless and cemented knee replacement . the incidence of deep vein thrombosis in 244 patients who had total knee replacement has been studied . in 120 the prosthesis was cemented and in 124 it was cementless . in all cases the replacement was primary and a porous-coated prosthesis with a porous-coated central tibial stem was used . deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed by venography , and pulmonary embolism by perfusion scanning . the incidence of deep vein thrombosis in the cementless knees ( 23.8 % ) and in the cemented ( 25 % ) was approximately the same . the only significant predisposing factors for deep vein thrombosis in both groups were obesity , prolonged postoperative immobilisation , previous venous disease and hyperlipidaemia . 
external fixation for type iii open tibial fractures . an analysis of 51 type iii open tibial fractures treated by external skeletal fixation is presented . the fractures are subdivided according to the classification of gustilo , mendoza and williams ( 1984 ) into types iiia , iiib and iiic . the different prognoses of these fracture subtypes is examined . the use of the hoffmann and hughes external fixators in the management of type iii open tibial fractures is presented and it is suggested that the prognosis is independent of the type of fixator used . 
mechanism of the pivot shift . the mechanism of the pivot shift was investigated by analysing movements under valgus torque in 29 fresh cadaveric knees . the movements were measured in three dimensions , using biplanar photography , when all the ligaments were intact , and then after the ligaments were sequentially divided . when only the anterior cruciate ligament was sectioned , the pivot shift occurred in seven out of 20 knees examined . in the other 13 , though the pivot shift was not observed , an abnormal internal rotation occurred at between 10 degrees and 50 degrees of flexion . division of the iliotibial tract in addition to division of the anterior cruciate ligament stopped the pivot shift , as the tibia remained internally rotated throughout the range of flexion . the axis of rotation of the pivot shift was located at the medial collateral ligament , which was kept tight by the applied valgus torque . the sudden movement in the pivot shift was caused by a complex interaction between the geometry of the knee and the valgus torque applied . 
healing of non-vascularised diaphyseal bone transplants . an experimental study . four different experiments were performed to study the healing of a large , non-vascularised , diaphyseal , bone segment in adult cats . in the first experiment , a 4 cm segment of tibia with its periosteum was excised and replaced in its bed . the other experiments were similar , except that in the second , the periosteum of the segment was removed , in the third its medullary canal was blocked with a silastic rod , and in the last group the segment was isolated from its muscle bed by a silastic sheet . the reparative processes were quantified by estimating the resorption index , the cortical new bone formation index , the callus encasement index , and the osteocyte count . bone resorption and apposition occurred in the segment even when the periosteum was absent or the medullary canal was blocked , with osseous union at both ends by eight to 12 weeks , provided the segment was not isolated from its muscle bed . thus , the muscle bed played a significant role in these reparative processes . 
the management of the painful first metatarsophalangeal joint in the older patient . arthrodesis or keller 's arthroplasty ? we report a prospective randomised trial comparing keller 's arthroplasty and arthrodesis of the first metatarsophalangeal joint for the management of symptomatic hallux valgus and hallux rigidus in the older patient . in 81 patients ( 110 feet ) , with a minimum of two years follow-up , both procedures gave a similar degree of patient satisfaction and symptom relief . the incidence of metatarsalgia was also similar . as there were no obvious advantages to arthrodesis , and since six out of 50 arthrodesed toes required revision , we suggest that keller 's arthroplasty is the better operation in these patients . 
neonatal osteomyelitis . thirty-four neonates with osteomyelitis were reviewed . the hip ( 19 ) was the most common site involved . swelling and pseudoparalysis were the most significant local signs . radiographic abnormalities , such as metaphyseal rarefaction and/or joint subluxation were found on the initial radiographs in 18 of the 19 hips involved . all patients were treated with antibiotics and all infections involving joints were drained surgically . good results were achieved in 75 % of all sites and in 68 % of hips . 
ultrasound-guided aspiration for transient synovitis of the hip . we reviewed 15 children with transient synovitis of the hip who had aspiration of an effusion under local anaesthesia with ultrasound guidance . there were no significant complications ; aspiration was useful for diagnosis and gave considerable symptomatic relief . we discuss the role of ultrasound in diagnosis and treatment . 
surgical treatment for severe slipping of the upper femoral epiphysis . we have used a modified technique of cervical osteotomy to treat a consecutive series of 23 patients with chronic slip of the upper femoral epiphysis . it has been successful in correcting both moderate and severe deformities with a low incidence of avascular necrosis , comparable to that seen after subtrochanteric osteotomies . we describe the operative details and discuss the features which make cervical osteotomy technically superior to intertrochanteric and subtrochanteric procedures . 
transient cyst-like cortical defects following fractures in children . medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma . asymptomatic cyst-like cortical defects appearing after fractures in children have been occasionally reported . typically , these defects appear during fracture consolidation , within the newly formed subperiosteal bone , proximal to the fracture line , do not enlarge , and progressively disappear . we have previously shown a fatty density on ct scan within the early cortical defect . we now present two additional cases in which early ct scans appeared to confirm that these transient cortical defects may consist of fat , and probably result from the inclusion of medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma . 
open transpedicular biopsy of the vertebral body . we describe a method of obtaining a biopsy from the body of a vertebra by an open transpedicular route . this minimises the danger of contamination of tissue planes and spaces . 
the modified schollner costoplasty . the modified schollner costoplasty is a cosmetic procedure for the correction of rib prominence deformity in scoliosis . we present the results of the procedure in 21 patients who had previously undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis . we found the procedure to be well tolerated without major complications . objective cosmetic improvement was achieved in all but one case . all but one patient considered the procedure to have been of cosmetic benefit . 
a surgical approach to the cervicothoracic spine . we describe a method for approaching the lower cervical and upper thoracic spine , the brachial plexus and related vessels . the method involves the elevation of the medial corner of the manubrium , the sternoclavicular joint , and the medial half of the clavicle on a pedicle of the sternomastoid muscle . we have used this exposure in 17 cases with few complications and good results . its successful performance requires high standards of anaesthesia , surgical technique and postoperative care . 
operative and conservative treatment of moderate spondylolisthesis in young patients . we made a retrospective study of 149 children and adolescents with moderate spondylolisthesis ( slip less than or equal to 30 % ) , 77 treated by fusion and 72 conservatively at an average follow-up of 13.3 years . both groups were fully comparable with regard to age at diagnosis , sex distribution ( 46 % girls ) , and mean slip . the patients who were treated operatively had more pain before treatment and showed more initial progression of the slip . they had better clinical results and less pain at latest review , but the total progression of the slip over the whole follow-up showed no statistical differences between the two groups . patients with a pseudarthrosis after attempted fusion had had a longer period of postoperative pain , but at the latest review had no more pain than those with sound fusion . none of those treated conservatively came to fusion later and the long-term results in 18 patients who had refused the advised operation were no worse than those for other conservatively treated patients . our results suggest that a moderate grade of spondylolisthesis in adolescents usually has a benign course . it seems that spontaneous segmental stabilisation occurs as a result of degeneration of the disc at the level of the slip . 
lumbar intervertebral disc prolapse in teenage twins . a case report and review of the literature . we report the cases of teenage twin girls presenting within months of each other with severe symptoms from lumbosacral disc prolapses , requiring laminectomy in one and chemonucleolysis in the other . ct scans showed similarities in spinal configuration , including the presence of disc bulges at the l4-5 level . this suggests a strong hereditary factor in prolapse of intervertebral discs , but a review of the literature showed little information on that aspect . 
radiographic appearances in lumbar disc prolapse . the pre-operative lumbar spine radiographs of 200 consecutive patients who had undergone discectomy for prolapsed intervertebral disc were reviewed . prolapse was recognized as bulging or sequestration of the disc with consequent root compromise . measurement of the lumbar level of the interiliac line was shown to correlate with the level of disc prolapse and the incidence of transitional vertebrae at the lumbosacral junction was significantly higher than normal . a pathological value for the lumbosacral angle could not be identified . 
autoantibodies to the hla-b27 sequence cross-react with the hypothetical peptide from the arthritis-associated shigella plasmid . we previously reported elevated serum antibody levels to a peptide representing the hla-b27 polymorphic region ( b27 peptide ) in hla-b27 ( + ) ankylosing spondylitis ( as ) patients . a plasmid ( phs-2 ) isolated from arthritogenic shigella flexneri strains had been shown to encode an amino acid sequence homologous to hla-b27 . rabbit antibody to this sequence ( phs-2 peptide ) strongly cross-reacted with b27 peptide and , to a much lesser extent , with klebsiella nitrogenase peptide . serum antibody levels to phs-2 peptide were studied in 160 spondylarthropathy patients . 12 of 115 ( 10.4 % ) as patients , 2 of 45 ( 4.4 % ) patients with reiter 's syndrome or reactive arthritis as well as 6 of 147 ( 4.1 % ) normal controls were shown to have elevated anti-phs-2 peptide antibodies . antibody levels to b27 and phs-2 peptides were significantly correlated in 134 hla-b27 ( + ) patients ( r = 0.333 , p less than 0.001 ) . 13 of 15 affinity-purified anti-b27 peptide antibodies from patients strongly cross-reacted with phs-2 peptide , whereas only 3 weakly cross-reacted to nitrogenase peptide . leucine appeared to be a critical residue for this cross-reaction . as patients ' anti-b27 peptide antibodies reacted with hla-b27 transfected l cells . these results may suggest that phs-2 peptide more efficiently " mimics " b27 peptide than does nitrogenase peptide . involvement of phs-2 in pathogenesis of spondylarthropathy through molecular mimicry mechanisms requires further study . 
scleroderma and l-tryptophan : a possible explanation of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . scleroderma developed in six women who were taking l-tryptophan . fasciitis and morphea were most common , but one patient had pleural effusion , hypertension , and signs of cardiac and kidney failure . in five patients the biopsy findings were characteristic of scleroderma ; the sixth patient had crohn 's disease and developed fasciitis ; her biopsy specimen showed inflammatory arteritis . all patients ' conditions improved after cessation of their l-tryptophan intake , initiation of corticosteroid therapy , or both . these findings confirm previous data that show altered tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism in some patients with scleroderma and fasciitis , particularly with tryptophan loading . 
dermatoses associated with sterile lytic bone lesions . in recent years several dermatoses , palmoplantar pustulosis , acne fulminans , and sweet 's syndrome , have been associated with sterile lytic bone lesions . this article discusses the clinical , laboratory , and histologic findings of these disorders and postulates a common mechanism underlying the bone lesions . 
the restorative and surgical technique for the full maxillary subperiosteal implant . the edentulous atrophic maxilla represents one of the most challenging implant restorative opportunities . when prescribed within the appropriate diagnostic range and performed by a highly skilled and experienced practitioner , the full maxillary subperiosteal implant is a predictable solution for the patient with an edentulous atrophic maxilla . 
regenerating bone in clinical periodontics . bone autografts and allografts , various alloplastic materials , and guided tissue regeneration are used to reconstruct lost periodontal tissues . this paper focuses on controversies related to these therapeutic modalities as well as their role in periodontal regeneration . 
imidazole salicylate versus piroxicam in the treatment of arthrosis in elderly patients . a double-blind clinical and endoscopic trial . the clinical efficacy and gastroduodenal tolerability of imidazole salicylate ( imidazole 2-hydroxybenzoate , itf 182 ) , a new synthetic drug with an anti-inflammatory action , was evaluated endoscopically in comparison with those of piroxicam in elderly patients suffering from osteoarthrosis . of the 41 patients entering the trial , only 38 completed the protocol ( 6 men and 32 women ; mean age , 71 ; range , 65-80 years ) . after upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for the purpose of excluding gastric and duodenal mucosal lesions , the patients were allocated at random , according to a double-blind , double-dummy protocol , to treatment either with imidazole salicylate 750 mg three times daily or with piroxicam 20 mg once daily for a period of 4 weeks . imidazole salicylate proved active in controlling a number of the pain symptoms caused by arthrosis , although its efficacy was inferior to that of piroxicam . grade 2 gastric mucosal lesions were detected in 1 of 20 patients ( 5 % ) treated with imidazole salicylate ; lesions corresponding to grades 2 , 3 , and 4 were found in 6 of 18 ( 33 % ) of those treated with piroxicam ( p = .034 ) . painful dyspepsia was reported by 15 % of the patients in the imidazole salicylate group and by 28 % of those in the piroxicam group . on the basis of these results and under the experimental conditions adopted in this trial , the authors concluded that imidazole salicylate is characterized by good gastric tolerability and can thus be used in the treatment of rheumatic diseases in the elderly . 
dermatomyositis : correlative mr imaging and p-31 mr spectroscopy for quantitative characterization of inflammatory disease magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging and phosphorus-31 mr spectroscopy were used to examine four patients with dermatomyositis and five control subjects . t2-weighted images of the thigh muscles of patients showed increased signal intensity , with focal and inhomogeneous involvement predominantly in the vastus lateralis and secondarily in the vastus intermedius and vastus medialis . t1 and t2 values of the vastus lateralis in patients were significantly higher than those of the control subjects . t1 values of the rectus femoris and biceps femoris with more generalized inflammation were moderately elevated but still significantly higher than those of the control subjects . p-31 mr spectra of the quadriceps muscles were obtained during rest , during exercise at two graded levels , and in recovery . concentrations of adenosine triphosphate and phosphocreatine ( pcr ) in the diseased muscles were 30 % below normal values , and the inorganic phosphate/pcr ratios were increased in the patients ' muscles at rest and throughout exercise . the t1 and t2 values as well as the p-31 metabolite data correlated with symptoms and clinical assessment . 
cytomegalovirus-induced osteomyelitis in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a 43-year-old man with aids had a periodontal abscess , no fever , and normal findings on funduscopic examination . three months later , the abscess area was debrided , and histologic examination of the tissue revealed osteomyelitis of the mandible . within the area of osteomyelitis were numerous cells with inclusions typical of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infected cells . funduscopic examination at that time revealed extensive cmv retinitis . osteomyelitis should be added to the list of infections caused by cmv in patients with aids . 
sagittal plane analysis in idiopathic scoliosis patients treated with cotrel-dubousset instrumentation . one hundred sixty patients with idiopathic scoliosis treated with cotrel-dubousset instrumentation ( cdi ) underwent preoperative and postoperative sagittal plane analysis of the thoracic spine , thoracolumbar junction , and lumbar spine . the data suggest that mild to moderate improvements in thoracic hypokyphosis are possible . when crossing the thoracolumbar junction , reversal of rod bend and reversal of hooks on the derotation rod appear to provide the most physiologic sagittal contour . cotrel-dubousset instrumentation to the mid and distal lumbar spine can preserve and , at times , enhance lumbar lordosis . 
long scoliosis fusion to the sacrum in adults with nonparalytic scoliosis . an improved method . the first 17 adults with nonparalytic scoliosis having long fusion to the sacrum treated with the luque-galveston technique were reviewed . there were 3 men and 14 women . their average age at the time of surgery was 47 years and the mean follow-up period was 42 months . there were no neurologic complications and no patient developed significant loss of lumbar lordosis . fusion occurred in 88 % of patients . two patients developed pseudarthrosis , neither of whom had anterior fusion at the level of pseudarthrosis . the best results occurred in patients who had two-stage procedures , with initial anterior lumbar fusion to the sacrum without instrumentation followed by posterior segmental instrumentation with the galveston technique of fixation to the pelvis . 
herniated intervertebral discs associated with unstable spinal injuries . to examine the occurrence of traumatic herniated intervertebral discs associated with unstable spinal injuries , the authors reviewed the records of all patients with spinal cord level unstable spine injuries managed at their institution over a 26-month period . ninety-three patients were identified . all patients had roentgenographic and computed tomographic ( ct ) evaluation . magnetic resonance imaging was performed in 48 patients , and revealed the presence of a herniated intervertebral disc in 16 , with the highest incidence being in the cervical spine . in the patients who had only plain film and ct scans , no disc pathology was identified . magnetic resonance imaging provides a noninvasive means of examining intervertebral disc damage in unstable spinal injuries that might otherwise be unidentified and result in spinal cord injury at the time of surgery . 
high levels of inflammatory phospholipase a2 activity in lumbar disc herniations . inflammation of neural elements is frequently mentioned clinically in association with lumbar radiculopathy . mechanical embarrassment of neural elements by definable structural abnormalities is inadequate as a sole explanation of nerve injury in this condition . the purpose of this study was to demonstrate whether an enzymatic marker for inflammation ( phospholipase a2 ) could be identified in human disc samples removed at surgery for radiculopathy due to lumbar disc disease . samples were assayed for phospholipase a2 activity . the level of activity in the disc samples was compared with values obtained from other human tissues using the same assay . specific activity ( percent hydrolysis radiolabelled substrate ) ranged from 238 to 1,014.5 nmol/min/mg . mean activity for the human disc material was 568.7 nmol/min/mg , compared with 0.006 nmol/min/mg for human pmn , and 12.1 nmol/min/mg for inflammatory human synovial effusion . the ph and cation-related activity were identical to those demonstrated for phospholipase a2 inflammatory conditions . human lumbar disc phospholipase a2 activity is from 20 - to 100,000-fold more active than any other phospholipase a2 that has been described . as the enzyme responsible for the liberation of arachidonic acid from cell membranes , phospholipase a2 is the rate-limiting step in the production of prostaglandins and leukotrienes . these data establish biochemical evidence of inflammation at the site of lumbar disc herniations . 
high lumbar disc degeneration . incidence and etiology . three hundred seventy-nine consecutive magnetic resonance images ( mris ) with dual-echo images of the entire lumbar spine were reviewed by the authors . all 379 patients presented with back pain and/or leg pain ; they were interviewed and examined . pain drawings were completed by all . there were 42 patients ( 11.1 % ) with disc pathologies involving t12-l1 , l1-2 , and/or l2-3 levels . six patients ( 1.6 % ) had isolated disc degeneration and/or herniations limited only to these high lumbar segments . the remaining 36 patients had degenerative changes of the higher discs with variable involvement of the lower lumbar discs . out of 12 spondylolistheses of l5 on s1 , 7 had high disc pathologies at one or more levels presenting as skipped lesions ; more severe high disc lesions were noted in grade ii slips . isolated high disc degeneration is often associated with pre-existing abnormalities such as end-plate defects , scheuermann 's disease , limbus vertebra , and so forth , and stressful cumulative work activities such as in construction workers , airplane mechanics , and so forth . high disc degeneration was noted above or below previous fractures . high disc involvement with diffuse changes in lower lumbar spine was more commonly found in ascending fashion in older age groups , and in patients who have had previous lower lumbar spine surgeries , prior fusions in particular . our findings suggest that altered mechanics are associated with the high lumbar disc pathologies . 
the natural history of lumbar intervertebral disc extrusions treated nonoperatively . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the natural history of morphologic changes within the lumbar spine in patients who sustained lumbar disc extrusions . all patients in this study were treated nonoperatively for radicular pain and neurologic loss . the following questions were addressed : 1 ) does perithecal or perineural fibrosis result when extrusions are not removed surgically , and 2 ) do disc extrusions spontaneously resolve , and , if so , how rapidly ? the study population consisted of 11 patients with extrusions and radiculopathy . all patients were successfully treated nonoperatively . all had a primary complaint of leg pain and all had positive straight leg raising reproducing their leg pain at less than or equal to 60 degrees . additionally , 87 % had muscle weakness on a neurologic basis in a root level distribution corresponding to the site of disc pathology . computed tomographic ( ct ) examinations were obtained on all patients at the inception of treatment . these studies were compared with follow-up mri studies . the initial ct scans were evaluated for the following criteria : disc size and position , thecal sac effacement , nerve root enlargement or displacement , and evidence of central or intervertebral canal stenosis . in addition to the pathomorphology evaluated on the ct scans , follow-up mri studies also evaluated disc hydration at the herniated and contiguous levels , and the presence of perithecal or perineural fibrosis . the following grading system was used to evaluate change in fragment size on the follow-up studies : grade 1-0 to 50 % decrease in size ; grade 2-50 to 75 % decrease in size ; grade 3-75 to 100 % decrease in size . 
metabolic bone disease in lumbar pseudarthrosis . pseudarthrosis occurs in many patients who undergo lumbar spine fusion and it has been suggested that abnormalities of bone metabolism contribute to it . the authors evaluated 47 patients with pseudarthrosis for metabolic bone disease . symptomatic patients with pseudarthrosis underwent metabolic bone evaluation . abnormal results of laboratory tests were found in 7 patients ( 14.9 % ) : 3 low or borderline 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin d3 , 2 elevated 24-hour urine calcium , and 2 low serum testosterone . none of these abnormalities correlated with other clinical findings . bone density was low in 14 of 24 patients in whom it was measured . low values did not correlate with smoking or abnormal laboratory values . metabolic bone abnormalities do not appear to play a frequent or significant role in pseudarthrosis after attempted lumbar spine fusion . 
lumbar discography followed by computed tomography . refining the diagnosis of low-back pain . two hundred fifty patients with low-back pain who underwent lumbar discography followed by computed tomography ( ct ) are the subject of this prospective study . in 93 % of the patients , these combined imaging techniques provided additional useful diagnostic information that affected patient management and the selection of treatment alternatives . lumbar discography followed by ct proved valuable in determining the significance of equivocal or multiple level abnormalities , determining the type of disc herniation , defining surgical options , and evaluating the previously operated spine . in 94 % of patients who had surgery , ct-discography correctly predicted the type of disc herniation as protruded , extruded , sequestrated , or internally disrupted . computed tomography-discography may be more sensitive that magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in the early stages of disc degeneration because 18 of 177 discs with a normal t2-weighted image were discographically abnormal and the ct-discogram revealed annular tears or radial fissuring . the radiographic morphology of the normal herniated and degenerative lumbar discs shown by ct-discography gives unique insight into the pathogenesis of disc degeneration . the complications that followed the 750 discograms were one case of urticaria and one disc space infection . even with the availability of high resolution ct and mri , lumbar discography remains the only pain provocation challenge to the lumbar disc . 
a multicenter analysis of percutaneous discectomy . this study was performed to evaluate a group of patients undergoing percutaneous discectomy . all patients had a single level unilateral l4-5 or l5-s1 disc herniation documented on either computer tomographic ( ct ) scan , myelogram , and/or magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . average follow-up after percutaneous discectomy was 16.8 months ( range , 2-46 months ) . the average hospitalization time was 1.7 days ( range , 1-5 days ) . only 21 patients ( 55 % ) were able to return to work after the procedure . thirteen patients ultimately underwent surgical discectomy for continued symptoms after the procedure . the additional 4 patients did not undergo surgical discectomy and never returned to work . of those 25 percutaneous discectomy patients who did not undergo surgical discectomy , there was significantly more pain , residual weakness , and numbness compared with the patients undergoing surgical discectomy . the results of this study clearly indicate that percutaneous discectomy does not appear to be as predictable or successful a treatment modality as surgical discectomy . 
tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome eight patients who became ill while taking tryptophan had myalgia , fatigue , rash , fever , edema , alopecia , arthralgias , diminished joint motion , skin tightening , muscle cramping , and distal paresthesias . three had shortness of breath , and one had pulmonary hypertension . laboratory abnormalities included peripheral eosinophilia , leukocytosis , thrombocytosis , raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and elevated serum levels of aldolase , lactate dehydrogenase , and liver enzymes . of 4 chest radiographs , 3 were abnormal . of 5 skin and muscle biopsies , 4 showed sclerosis or mixed inflammatory cell infiltration of the dermis , subcutis , and fascia . eosinophils were often present , but vasculitis was absent . muscle inflammation was minimal . we conclude that the " eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome " is related to the ingestion of tryptophan and that abnormalities in the secretion of lymphokines may be important in its pathogenesis . 
disc space infection : a case report with mri diagnosis . vertebral disc space infection is an uncommon cause of back pain . physical findings may be unimpressive and laboratory evaluation may only disclose an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate . magnetic resonance imaging is particularly useful , since it reveals abnormalities earlier than plain radiographs and is more precise than bone scan . 
factors influencing the development of metabolic bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis . the prevalence , type , and factors that may influence the development of bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis , have been investigated in 20 consecutive patients , who , in addition to liver function tests and mineral and vitamin d metabolism studies , were submitted to a transiliac bone biopsy after tetracycline double-labeling for quantitative histomorphometric examination . intestinal calcium absorption was also assessed in 16 patients . seven patients ( 35 % ) had reduced bone volume and were considered osteoporotic . three also had bone mineralization impairment , but did not have criteria for osteomalacia . bone formation was depressed in 15 patients , and bone resorption was low or normal in 19 cases . eroded surfaces were reduced in all osteoporotic patients . duration of primary biliary cirrhosis was significantly longer in patients with osteoporosis ( 6.3 + / - 0.6 yr ) than in those without osteoporosis ( 2.6 + / - 0.6 , p = 0.004 ) . moreover , osteoporosis was more prevalent in postmenopausal women , and in those who had intestinal calcium malabsorption , which was present in 80 % of osteoporotic patients but in only 18 % of nonosteoporotic patients ( p = 0.03 ) . osteoporosis and mineralization bone impairment were unrelated to the severity of cholestasis . 25-hydroxyvitamin d was significantly lower in those patients with intestinal calcium malabsorption . the results of this study indicate that osteodystrophy in primary biliary cirrhosis is characterized mainly by " low-turnover " osteoporosis , which is related to the duration of the liver disease , postmenopausal condition , and calcium malabsorption . 
phenotypic heterogeneity in osteogenesis imperfecta : the mildly affected mother of a proband with a lethal variant has the same mutation substituting cysteine for alpha 1-glycine 904 in a type i procollagen gene ( col1a1 ) . a proband with a lethal variant of osteogenesis imperfecta ( oi ) has been shown to have , in one allele in a gene for type i procollagen ( col1a1 ) , a single base mutation that converted the codon for alpha 1-glycine 904 to a codon for cysteine . the mutation caused the synthesis of type i procollagen that was posttranslationally overmodified , secreted at a decreased rate , and had a decreased thermal stability . the results here demonstrate that the proband 's mother had the same single base mutation as the proband . the mother had no fractures and no signs of oi except for short stature , slightly blue sclerae , and mild frontal bossing . as a child , however , she had the triangular facies frequently seen in many patients with oi . on repeated subculturing , the proband 's fibroblasts grew more slowly than the mother 's , but they continued to synthesize large amounts of the mutated procollagen in passages 7-14 . in contrast , the mother 's fibroblasts synthesized decreasing amounts of the mutated procollagen after passage 11 . also , the relative amount of the mutated allele in the mother 's fibroblasts decreased with passage number . in addition , the ratio of the mutated allele to the normal allele in leukocyte dna from the mother was half the value in fibroblast dna from the proband . the simplest interpretation of the data is that the mother was mildly affected because she was a mosaic for the mutation that produced a lethal phenotype in one of her three children . 
postpartum osteomyelitis caused by group b streptococcus . postpartum infections caused by group b streptococci are generally limited in scope . we report a case of vaginal colonization with group b streptococcus that progressed in the postpartum period to osteomyelitis that necessitated total hip replacement . the patient had no risk factors predisposing to streptococcal osteomyelitis . an altered immune status in pregnancy and intrapartum bacteremia may be involved in the pathogenesis of this infection . 
magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy . three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging . the affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement . the magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence . 
early facial reanimation following radical parotid and temporal bone tumor resections . a retrospective study of 35 patients who underwent early facial reanimation following extirpative parotid and temporal bone surgery requiring facial nerve sacrifice was performed . regional facial reanimation performed immediately or within several days included 16 patients who underwent temporalis muscle transposition and 27 who underwent gold weight or eyespring lid reanimation with lower lid tightening . simultaneous nerve grafts or nerve crossover procedures were performed in 22 patients . the authors ' favored approaches to facial reanimation are discussed , with an emphasis on the value of early reanimation using properly selected techniques . 
mandibular reconstruction with composite microvascular tissue transfer . microvascular free tissue transfer has provided a variety of methods of restoring vascularized bone and soft tissue to difficult defects created by tumor resection and trauma . over 7 years , 26 patients have undergone 28 free flaps for mandibular reconstruction , 15 for primary squamous cell carcinoma of the floor of the mouth or tongue , 7 for recurrent tumor , and 6 for other reasons [ lymphangioma ( 1 ) , infection ( 1 ) , gunshot wound ( 1 ) , and osteoradionecrosis ( 3 ) ] . primary reconstruction was performed in 19 cases and secondary in 9 . all repairs were composite flaps including 12 scapula , 5 radial forearm , 3 fibula , 2 serratus , and 6 deep circumflex iliac artery . mandibular defects included the symphysis alone ( 7 ) , symphysis and body ( 5 ) , symphysis-body-ramus condyle ( 2 ) , body or ramus ( 13 ) , and bilateral body ( 1 ) . fourteen patients had received prior radiotherapy to adjuvant or curative doses . eight received postoperative radiotherapy . all patients had initially successful vascularized reconstruction by clinical examination ( 28 ) and positive radionuclide scan ( 22 of 22 ) . bony stability was achieved in 25 of 26 patients and oral continence in 24 of 26 . one complete flap loss occurred at 14 days . complications of some degree developed in 22 patients including partial skin necrosis ( 3 ) , orocutaneous fistula ( 3 ) , plate exposure ( 1 ) , donor site infection ( 3 ) , fracture of reconstruction ( 1 ) , and fracture of the radius ( 1 ) . microvascular transfer of bone and soft tissue allows a reliable reconstruction -- despite previous radiotherapy , infection , foreign body , or surgery -- in almost every situation in which mandible and soft tissue are absent . bony union , a healed wound , and reasonable function and appearance are likely despite early fistula , skin loss , or metal plate or bone exposure . 
reconstruction of mandibular defects in irradiated patients . in this prospective study , mandibular reconstruction using titanium plates was evaluated in 31 patients treated between july 1988 and january 1990 . sixteen patients had prior surgery ; 13 had prior radiotherapy . in 11 patients , prior radiation and surgery had failed . sixteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy either in standard or accelerated fractions . twelve patients had complications of either intraoral ( 8 ) , extraoral ( 5 ) , or combined ( 1 ) plate exposure or fistula formation ( 2 ) . factors significantly related to complications were poor nutrition , accelerated radiation , and recurrence . sixty-one percent of all patients healed uneventfully . when patients with complications secondary to recurrence who subsequently died were excluded , the success rate was 73 % . only one patient had an unacceptable result that produced a cosmetic and functional deformity despite secondary repair . 
predicting the severity of cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis . study objectives : the syndrome of rhabdomyolysis associated with cocaine use has been recently described , but the incidence , severity , risk factors , and complications are unknown . this study sought to describe the spectrum of the syndrome and identify clinical features of patients at risk . design : retrospective case series with analysis of common clinical features . setting : medical emergency department of an urban teaching hospital serving an indigent population . types of participants : ed patients with acute cocaine intoxication and a serum creatine kinase ( all mm ) of more than 500 u/l ( 8.3 ukat/l ) who were admitted for in-hospital management . measurements and main results : twenty-nine patients , representing 5 % of cocaine-related patient visits , were identified over 20 months . patients were divided into three groups : mild , characterized by anxiety , tachycardia , diaphoresis , dyspnea , or chest pain ; moderate , characterized by delirium , agitation , fever , leukocytosis , or an elevated serum creatinine ; and severe , characterized by seizure , coma , hypotension , arrhythmia , or cardiac arrest . there was a significant association between the rating system for level of intoxication and the severity of rhabdomyolysis and its complications ( p less than .01 ) . patients at highest risk for complications of rhabdomyolysis were those in the moderate or severe groups . conclusion : this classification system may be useful for the management of patients with acute cocaine intoxication , predicting those patients in whom aggressive therapy should be initiated in the ed to minimize the complications of rhabdomyolysis . 
treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis with high doses of synthetic calcitriol . a randomized controlled study objective : to study the efficacy of synthetic 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( calcitriol ) in the treatment of osteoporosis . design : two-year , double-blind , randomized clinical trial . setting : university medical center . patients : fifty postmenopausal women with vertebral fractures recruited by referral . intervention : calcium intake was adjusted to 25 mmol/d ( 1000 mg/d ) at baseline . patients were then randomized to treatment with either calcitriol or placebo . during the study , calcium intake was reduced to 15 mmol/d ( 600 mg/d ) and the dose of calcitriol was adjusted to maintain serum calcium less than 2.74 mmol/l ( less than 11.0 mg/dl ) or urine calcium less than 9.96 mmol/d ( less than 400 mg/d ) . measurements and main results : after 2 years , the mean dose of calcitriol in the treated group was 0.62 micrograms/d . bone mineral density of the spine increased 1.94 % with calcitriol therapy and decreased 3.92 % with placebo ( p = 0.001 ) . total body calcium increased 0.21 % with calcitriol therapy and decreased 1.85 % with placebo ( p = 0.004 ) . patients receiving placebo had significant decreases in spine density ( p = 0.0007 ) and total body calcium ( p = 0.0004 ) . there were no differences in vertebral fracture rates between the groups . renal function studies were not statistically different between the groups after 2 years . conclusion : the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporotic women with synthetic calcitriol for 2 years was associated with increases in spine density and total body calcium . no adverse effects on renal function were seen after long-term calcitriol therapy . 
an unusual cause of thoracic mass . a previously well 10 year old boy presented with scoliosis , a mass in the chest wall , and a pleural effusion . chest radiography showed the triad of chronic consolidation , pleural effusion , and rib periostitis . investigations confirmed thoracic actinomycosis . tissue spread was evaluated by computed tomography . it was successfully treated with benzylpenicillin , which was later replaced by clindamycin . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . recognition of a distinct clinicopathologic entity the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a newly described disorder related to the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products . its presentation may mimic other disorders characterized by eosinophilia and muscle pain and/or weakness , but can be differentiated by certain characteristic laboratory and pathologic findings . we report two such cases , describe their features , and review similar syndromes . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan ingestion . analysis of four patients and implications for differential diagnosis and pathogenesis four patients fulfilling the case definition for eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome are described , including one whose disease began in 1986 . each displayed a variety of symptoms : one suffered principally from myalgia and recovered spontaneously on discontinuation of l-tryptophan therapy ; one exhibited progressive sclerodermiform skin changes , neuropathy , and myopathy ; a third had prominent neuromuscular disease and sclerodermiform skin changes ; and the fourth experienced profound weight loss , an axonal polyneuropathy , and perivascular lymphoid infiltrates simulating a lymphoma . evidence of t-cell activation was present in peripheral blood and affected tissues during the clinically active progressive phase of disease . among other manifestations pleural effusion , cutaneous vasculitis , joint contractures , and bloody diarrhea were observed . a history of l-tryptophan ingestion should be sought in patients with myalgia , fatigue , or the above outlined symptoms . 
congenital myopathy and cardiomyopathy with identical ultrastructural changes . a 7-day-old girl with congenital hypotonia and unexplained episodes of bradycardia had a broad spectrum of similar skeletal muscle and myocardial degenerative ultrastructural abnormalities . ultrastructural studies showed obliteration of cross striations , myofilament disorganization , streaming , smearing , clumping , and zigzag z-band deformities . a decrease in glycogen , mitochondria , and t-tubular system occurred in the regions showing z-band abnormalities of both skeletal muscle and myocardium . concurrent structural cardiomyopathy should be considered in patients with congenital myopathies , particularly with unexplained cardiac conduction abnormalities or contractile insufficiency . ultrastructural evaluation of skeletal and cardiac muscle may be necessary to define such disorders . 
unusual cause of ' piriformis muscle syndrome ' . the piriformis muscle syndrome is a controversial " clinical " syndrome primarily characterized by signs and symptoms of sciatic nerve compression at the region of the piriformis muscle as it passes through the greater sciatic notch . the syndrome is often referred to ; however , cases are rarely reported , and it is generally an uncommon diagnosis . of those cases reported , the incidence is six times more frequent in females than in males , and is typically temporally related to minor pelvic or buttock trauma . we describe a case of a 40-year-old woman presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of piriformis muscle syndrome following a gynecologic procedure performed in the dorsal lithotomy position . electromyographic findings were consistent with this clinical entity . operative exploration , however , revealed the source of neural compression to be a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior gluteal artery adjacent to the piriformis muscle . the diagnostic features of this clinical syndrome are discussed . 
imbalance between the mechanisms of activation and inhibition of metalloproteases in the early lesions of experimental osteoarthritis . levels of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases ( timp ) and plasminogen activator ( pa ) / plasmin were measured and the distribution of pa was studied by immunohistochemical techniques in cartilage and synovium samples from dogs subjected to sectioning of the anterior cruciate ligament of their right knees and sham operation of their left knees ( controls ) . twenty-three animals were divided into 3 groups and killed at 2 , 4 , or 8 weeks after surgery . the levels of pa and plasmin were found to be significantly elevated in the osteoarthritic ( oa ) knee cartilage and synovium at all times after surgery , except for levels of pa in the oa cartilage at 2 weeks . there was a positive correlation between the levels of pa and plasmin in the synovial membrane ( r = 0.64 , p less than 0.001 ) . in oa knees , the presence of high levels of total and active collagenase was detected in cartilage and in synovium . the levels of these 2 forms of collagenase showed a positive correlation both in cartilage ( r = 0.65 , p less than 0.001 ) and in synovium ( r = 0.77 , p less than 0.001 ) . the levels of timp in cartilage from oa and sham operated knees were similar . although the timp level was increased in the oa synovium , it was found only in trace amounts in cartilage . immunohistochemical studies revealed that both forms of pa , urokinase-type pa and tissue-type pa , and timp were present in oa tissues . in the synovium , they were found mainly in monocyte/macrophages , synovial lining cells , and blood vessel cells . in oa cartilage , pa was present only at the superficial level in chondrocytes and in cartilage matrix , whereas timp was present in chondrocyte lacunae throughout the full thickness of the cartilage . timp was also detected in the superficial level of cartilage from sham operated knees . the results of this study indicate that in oa tissues , there are conditions that favor the synthesis and activation of metalloproteases . pa and plasmin are likely to play an important role in the physiologic activation of metalloproteases , although they are probably not the only system involved in this process . the lack of increased timp levels in the oa cartilage , in the presence of increased metalloprotease activity , is also a possible contributing factor in the enzymatic degradation of this tissue . 
cellular immune response toward human articular chondrocytes . t cell reactivities against chondrocyte and fibroblast membranes in destructive joint diseases . articular cartilage is one of the major targets in destructive joint diseases in humans . we studied cellular immune reactions against cartilage cell-surface membranes , because it has recently been suggested that these represent possible antigenic structures , based upon the observation of autoantibodies with this specificity in certain joint diseases . a striking t cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes was found both in blood and synovial tissue from patients with rheumatoid arthritis . this reactivity was strongly dependent on the presence of monocytes and had all the characteristics of an antigen-driven process . clonal analysis demonstrated high precursor frequencies in peripheral blood t cells that were reactive against chondrocyte membranes . this response to chondrocyte membranes greatly exceeded the t cell stimulation induced by membranes from other sources such as fibroblasts or epithelial cells . in contrast to patients with rheumatoid arthritis , individuals with osteoarthritis showed a strong peripheral blood and synovial fluid t cell response not only to chondrocyte membranes , but also to fibroblast membrane material . however , there was no reactivity to epithelial cell membranes . normal donors generally did not show significant responses to any membrane preparation . these data indicate that there is a strong t cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes in destructive joint disorders , and this may significantly contribute to the pathogenetic processes that occur in these diseases . 
relationship of glucocorticoid dosage to serum bone gla-protein concentration in patients with rheumatologic disorders . serum bone gla-protein ( bgp ) measurements in 50 rheumatic disease patients receiving long-term prednisone therapy revealed an inverse relationship ( r = -0.71 , p less than 0.001 ) between serum bgp levels and prednisone dosage . multiple regression analysis demonstrated significant relationships ( r2 = 0.72 , p less than 0.001 ) between serum bgp1/2 and prednisone dosage , dosage2 , serum creatinine , age , and an age-creatinine interaction . this model predicts the suppression of serum bgp with low dosages of steroids and 50 % suppression with dosages of 20-25 mg/day . 
specificity of antibodies to type ii collagen in rheumatoid arthritis . to reassess the role of autoantibodies to type ii collagen in the pathogenesis of diseases , we studied antibodies from patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and from patients with relapsing polychondritis for species specificity and collagen type specificity , using an improved enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . antibodies were found in the sera of 15 % of the ra patients and 50 % of the relapsing polychondritis patients , as well as in the cartilage of 69 % of the ra patients examined . reaction with both homologous and heterologous type ii collagens was common . analysis of 19 selected ra sera revealed that autoantibodies were generally associated with specific antibodies to some species of heterologous type ii collagen . in contrast , antibodies found in 4 % of the non-ra controls were specific for either bovine or chick type ii collagen . these findings indicate that autoantibody formation in ra and relapsing polychondritis may occur as a result of an immune response to heterologous type ii collagen . however , since ra and relapsing polychondritis patient sera differed in their reactivity with the cyanogen bromide-digested peptides , it is possible that the clinical manifestation of collagen autoimmunity might be influenced by the epitope specificity of the antibodies . 
renal disease in chronic arthritis of childhood . a study of urinary n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and beta 2-microglobulin excretion . urinalyses of randomly obtained samples from children with various types of chronic arthritis revealed proteinuria in 2.3 % of patients , hemoglobinuria in 3.5 % , erythrocyturia in 4.1 % , and leukocyturia in 5.3 % ; these frequencies are within the range found by screening school children . however , raised urinary levels of n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and/or beta 2-microglobulin ( both sensitive measures of renal tubular damage ) were found more frequently in children with chronic arthritis than in controls ( p less than 0.0001 ) . abnormalities of either n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase or beta 2-microglobulin excretion were associated with active arthritis as measured by physician global estimate of disease activity , with a polyarticular onset of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis , and with the use of slow-acting antirheumatic drugs or the concurrent use of more than 1 nonsteroidal antiinflamtory drug . abnormal renal tubular function appears to be common in chronic arthritis of childhood . the long-term consequences of this abnormality remain to be elucidated . 
pseudotumor of the craniocervical junction during long-term hemodialysis . a systematic study of the upper cervical spine was performed using magnetic resonance imaging in 25 patients ( 15 men and 10 women ) who had been undergoing hemodialysis for more than 10 years . seven pseudotumors of the periodontoid soft tissue were disclosed , which were similar to the pannus recently described in rheumatoid arthritis . bone cystic radiolucencies were observed in association with these pseudotumors in 5 patients . the radiolucencies were located in the atlas ( 1 in the lateral mass and 1 in the anterior branch ) and in the axis ( 3 in the odontoid process and 1 in the vertebral body ) . no horizontal or vertical atlantoaxial subluxation was demonstrated . these features were observed only in patients who had amyloid arthropathy . they could be a frequent , yet thus far little-recognized , feature of beta 2-microglobulin amyloidosis . 
human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis , psoriatic arthritis , and reiter 's syndrome : a disease continuum ? the presence of peripheral arthritis and hla-a , b , c , dr , and dq antigens was evaluated prospectively in 18 caucasian men with human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis . an asymmetric polyarthritis occurred in 32 % of the patients and correlated with the presence of hla-b27 . extensive clinical overlap between psoriatic arthritis , psoriasis , and reiter 's syndrome was noted . no significant excess of the hla antigens previously found to be associated with psoriasis was seen , which suggests that human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis per se may instead constitute another form of spondylarthropathy that is more closely related to reiter 's syndrome . 
intravenous pulse cyclophosphamide therapy in myositis and sjogren 's syndrome . we describe a patient with primary sjogren 's syndrome who developed myositis . the results of muscle pathologic analysis before and after treatment with monthly pulses of cyclophosphamide ( intravenously ) , are presented . 
alcohol and bone disease . alcohol is considered to be an important risk factor for various bone diseases but recent studies have shown that moderate alcohol intake can be beneficial to bone structure . alcohol decreases osteoblastic activity , leading to decreased bone formation and defective mineralization . the changes reported in calciotropic hormones , mainly vitamin d and parathyroid hormone , are observed due in part to a deficient intestinal absorption of vitamin d and an inadequate synthesis of its hepatic metabolite , although greater emphasis has been given to dietary deficiencies or lack of exposure to sun . the changes in parathyroid hormone are not consistent and since there is no greater incidence of hyperparathyroidism in alcoholic patients , it suggests that alcohol does not have a long-term effect on the parathyroid glands . alcohol increases calcitonin secretion acutely ; calcitonin is an inhibitor of bone resorption and may be the mechanism by which moderate alcohol intake protects bone structure . alcohol increases urinary calcium , magnesium and zinc excretion . zinc deficiency has been postulated as a cause of oesteoporisis because it causes hypogonadism . the decrease in the levels of the gonadal hormones and the increase of cortisol , observed in chronic alcoholics , may indirectly cause osteopenia and aseptic necrosis . to these actions must be added the acidosis due to alcohol and the greater tendency of the alcoholic to fall , all of which influence bone changes and increase the incidence of bone fractures . 
the effect of local deep microwave hyperthermia on experimental zymosan-induced arthritis in rabbits . the effect of local deep microwave hyperthermia ( ldmwh ) on normal and zymosan-induced arthritis has been evaluated in 12 rabbits ( 24 joints ) . ldmwh , four treatments to each joint ( twice weekly for a period of 2 wk ) , was generated by an antenna operating at 915 mhz for 60 min , reaching an intraarticular temperature of 42.5 + / - 0.5 degrees c. a surface cooling system was used with the microwave apparatus . two weeks after the last treatment , all animals were sacrificed . the application of ldmwh on normal joints induced a limited proliferation of the synovial lining cells with a minimal perivascular infiltration of mononuclear and neutrophil cells . however , no histologic damage to the skin , muscles , bone , cartilage or bone marrow adjacent to the heated joints could be noted . induction of zymosan arthritis ( 2 wk before ldmwh ) was characterized by pannus formation and granulomatous reaction accompanied by fibrinoid deposits and disseminated necrotic foci in the synovial intima . the ldmwh treatment on the examined arthritic joints brought about a reduction in the degree of granulomatous reaction concomitant with the appearance of some fibrocytes and fine collagen fibrils . these findings suggest that ldmwh can be safely applied , even repeatedly , without morphologic evidence of damage to any normal mesenchymal tissue . moreover , it reduces the inflammatory process in experimentally induced synovitis . 
pivoting larynx -- an unusual clinical observation at laryngoscopy . rigid oesophagoscopy was planned in the investigation of a young patient with dysphagia . during laryngoscopy for tracheal intubation an unusual pivoting manoeuvre was required to see the vocal cords . although the initial diagnostic investigations were unhelpful , follow up directed at explaining the clinical observations led to an eventual diagnosis of anterior tubercles of c6 , which explained the observation and accounted for the dysphagia . 
extradural abscess following local anaesthetic and steroid injection for chronic low back pain . a case is described of extradural abscess following extradural injection of local anaesthetic and steroid for the management of chronic low back pain . the common signs and symptoms are reviewed , possible causes discussed and the association with diabetes stressed . 
prediction of hip fracture in elderly women : a prospective study objective -- to assess the relative importance of osteoporosis of the os calcis , cognisance , and mobility in the risk of subsequent fracture of the hip in elderly women . design -- prospective study of elderly women in residential care over two years . setting -- 21 private or 38 local authority residential homes for the elderly and 4 geriatric hospitals in doncaster and hull . subjects -- 1414 ambulant women aged over 69 , in private or local authority residential care or geriatric care . those who had had bilateral hip surgery were excluded . main outcome measures -- broad band ultrasonic attenuation ( bua ) index , clifton assessment procedures for the elderly test ( for cognisance ) , and mobility on a six point scale , and fracture of the hip in the subsequent two year period . results -- 73 women fractured their hip during the two years . their mean age was not significantly different from that of the women who did not have a fracture ( 85.3 ( sd 5.6 ) v 83.9 ( 6.3 ) ; p = 0.07 ) , but their mean bua index ( 40.3 ( 19.3 ) v 50.9 ( 22.2 ) db/mh2 ) , and score for cognisance ( median 19 ( interquartile range 10.5-27 .0 ) v 24 ( 17-30 ) ) were significantly lower ( both p less than 0.001 ) . these variables had independent associations with fracture of the hip . women with fractures had a significantly lower score for the psychomotor component of the cognisance test ( 4.5 ( 1-8 ) v 7 ( 2-10 ) ; p less than 0.0025 and were significantly more mobile ( 1 ( 1-3 ) v 3 ( 1-6 ) ; p less than 0.02 ) . subdividing women according to high , medium , and low scores for bua index and cognisance testing disclosed a high risk group ( 118 women ) with low bua index and cognisance score , whose incidence of fracture was 12.8 % ; in the group at lowest risk ( 136 women ) with high bua index and cognisance score , the incidence of fracture was only 1.5 % ( relative risk 8.4 ( 95 % confidence interval -2.0 to 35.5 ] . further analysis showed that those most at risk were , additionally , most mobile but that less mobile women with good cognisance had a low incidence of fractures , regardless of the bua index , ( 1.2 % , high index , v 0.9 % , low index ) . conclusions -- elderly women most at risk of sustaining hip fractures were those with low bua index , low cognisance test score , and high mobility . improving bone strength and cognisance in elderly women may reduce their incidence of hip fracture . 
the sulphated glycosaminoglycan levels in synovial fluid aspirates in patients with acute and chronic joint disease . proteoglycan levels were measured in a series of synovial fluid samples from patients with acute and chronic joint diseases using a modified chemical dye binding method . levels found in 50 miscellaneous inflammatory arthritis fluids ( mean = 173.2 + / - 90.9 micrograms/ml ) were higher than found in either 50 with rheumatoid arthritis ( 96.3 + / - 31.3 micrograms/ml ) or 50 with osteoarthritis ( 83.8 + / - 27.3 micrograms/ml ) . for comparison , proteoglycan levels were measured in 15 cadaver synovial fluids ( 98.9 + / - 44.2 micrograms/ml ) and 12 synovial fluids from patients with sports injury ( 163.7 + / - 79.4 micrograms/ml ) . patients were recruited into a trial where synovial fluid was aspirated as often as possible over a 6-month period during which the patients were followed using a number of well proven clinical parameters . no correlation was found between the degree of joint destruction as measured by x-ray damage and the concentration or total amount of proteoglycan in the synovial fluid . in addition , there was no correlation between the level or total amount of proteoglycan and any clinical parameter of disease activity . 
patients with arthritis and anti-u1-rnp antibodies : a 10-year follow-up . five hundred and forty patients attending a rheumatology ward were screened for antinuclear antibodies ( ana ) by indirect immunofluorescence ( ifl ) . seventy had a significant titre of ana . twenty-three had u1-ribonucleoprotein antibodies ( u1-rnp-ab ) . the clinical findings in u1-rnp-ab-positive patients were consistent with mixed connective tissue disease ( mctd ) . disease was more serious in the u1-rnp-ab-positive patients in terms of polyarthritis severity as well as mortality due to rheumatic disease . thus , in this arthritis patient population , u1-rnp-ab positivity predicted an aggressive disease characterized by an erosive arthritis . 
diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis ( dish ) of the shoulder : a cause of shoulder pain ? shoulder pain is a common complaint and shoulder hyperostosis a frequent radiological condition . however , little is known about the association between the clinical and radiological findings . to evaluate the clinical relevance of shoulder hyperostosis we performed a controlled , blind study of 99 hospitalized probands with and without thoracospinal hyperostosis on lateral chest x-rays . the study included grading of the shoulder hyperostosis on the basis of three bilateral standard radiographs , assessing shoulder pain in a standardized way by an interviewer and recording extraskeletal causes of shoulder pain . the prevalence of shoulder hyperostosis was doubled in probands with thoracospinal hyperostosis compared to controls ( chi 2 = 5.90 , p less than 0.025 , n = 99 ) . shoulder hyperostosis , irrespective of thoracospinal hyperostosis , predisposed to shoulder pain ( 40 % versus 18 % , chi 2 = 4.06 , p less than 0.05 , n = 74 ) . shoulder hyperostosis in combination with thoracospinal hyperostosis ( shoulder dish ) predisposed to shoulder pain to an even greater extent ( 46 % versus 12 % , chi 2 = 6.64 , p less than 0.01 , n = 47 ) . we conclude that shoulder hyperostosis is a radiological finding of potential clinical relevance . 
a clinical epidemiological study in low back pain . description of two clinical syndromes . in 100 patients with mainly chronic low back pain ( lbp ) signs and symptoms were evaluated prospectively and without preconceived expectation of particular findings . two clinical syndromes were distinguished , both characterized by ' typical local tenderness ' and associated with specific clinical features ; these syndromes , described previously in the literature but receiving scant attention , were named the greater trochanteric pain syndrome ( trochanteric bursitis ) and the iliac crest pain syndrome ( iliolumbar syndrome ) , and occurred in 35 % and 43 % of the patients , respectively . the recognition of these syndromes may enable us to study aetiology , prognosis , and therapy of lbp in more homogeneous groups of patients . 
lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus presenting as shoulder capsulitis . we describe three patients who presented with pain and restriction of movement at the shoulder suggestive of capsulitis , but proved to have lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus . it is important to be aware of the possibility of this cause of a ' frozen shoulder ' , since radiographs of the shoulder are usually cropped at the mid-humerus and lesions at this level may easily be missed . a radiograph of the entire humerus , or an isotope bone scan , may be more useful than repeated shoulder radiographs in patients whose shoulder symptoms do not respond to standard treatment . 
abdominal wall pain : an alternative diagnosis . the cause of abdominal pain need not necessarily reside in the viscera ; the abdominal wall is another source of symptoms . some causes of abdominal wall pain are obvious , e.g. hernias , but not so others such as nerve entrapment syndromes . this review is concerned with causes of abdominal wall pain which , although common , may be easily overlooked . 
cemented total knee arthroplasty for gonarthrosis in patients 55 years old or younger . the results of 68 cemented total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) in 50 patients with gonarthrosis who were 55 years old or younger at the time of surgery were reviewed . these patients were operated on between 1979 and 1987 and were followed for an average of 6.2 years . the average age of the patients was 50 years . patients were evaluated by the hospital for special surgery knee score . the average preoperative score was 53 , and the average follow-up score was 90 . overall , 55 tkas were rated as excellent and 13 as good . using the knee rating score advocated by the knee society , the average postoperative score was 92 for pain and 84 for function . there were four successful reoperations for patellar component loosening , all in metal-backed patellae . the femoral and tibial components in these patients were intact , and at the follow-up period , two knees were rated as excellent and two as good . detailed roentgenographic evaluation demonstrated that 20 % of tibial components had radiolucencies in at least one zone on the anteroposterior roentgenogram and in 11 % on the lateral roentgenogram . femoral radiolucencies occurred in only 2 % of knees . patellar radiolucencies in one or more zones occurred in 20 % of knees that had not had patellar revision . no complete or progressive radiolucencies at the bone-cement interface were noted for any component , and no components were considered to be roentgenographically loose . cemented tkas can achieve excellent long-term results in patients younger than 55 years old with gonarthrosis of the knee . these results compare with those obtained in published reports on older age groups . 
total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus . a retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus . the overall infection rate was 7 % , with an overall revision rate of 10 % and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years . wound complications were present in 12 % of the tkas . the rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients . therefore , maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having tka to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis . 
bone loss in the distal anterior femur after total knee arthroplasty . bone loss in the distal anterior femur in asymptomatic total knee arthroplasty ( tka ) patients has been noted roentgenographically and during revision surgery . a retrospective roentgenographic review of 147 tka cases was carried out to document bone loss . the influence that the mode of fixation ( porous coated and cemented ) and the implant design have on bone loss was examined . the time of onset and the progression of bone loss were studied . bone loss occurred in the distal anterior femur in the majority of cases reviewed ( 68 % ) . the prevalence of bone loss was independent of the mode of fixation and the implant design . by qualitative observation , roentgenographically detectable bone loss occurred within the first postoperative year and did not progress further . previously three-dimensional finite element analysis demonstrated that the replacement of the bearing surface of the femur with a stiff metallic implant reduces the stress in the distal anterior femur by at least one order of magnitude . it is therefore speculated that the observed bone loss results from stress shielding . the apparent lack of progression may reflect the development of a new remodeling equilibrium under the altered stress conditions . the bone loss in the distal anterior femur described has not been implicated as a source of failure . however , since the bone strength in the femoral region is compromised as it becomes osteopenic , bone failure may occur with longer periods of cyclic loading . furthermore , as a result of bone loss , revision arthroplasty may be more difficult . 
a sequential three-step lateral release for correcting fixed valgus knee deformities during total knee arthroplasty . an approach to mild , moderate , and severe fixed valgus deformities of the knee is described . the sequential approach to soft-tissue releases in the fixed valgus knee allows the surgeon to regain a neutral alignment in valgus deformities of up to 90 degrees . an additional benefit of the approach is spontaneous correction of fixed external tibial rotation deformities . using this approach , early and late stability allows the use of unconstrained knee implants , including those with mobile-bearing elements . 
anterior acromioplasty for treatment of the shoulder impingement syndrome . between 1975 and 1979 , anterior acromioplasty was performed in 65 patients with 66 involved shoulders . the procedure appears to be safe and reasonably effective . of the 65 patients in this study , 50 had chronic tendon inflammation with fibrosis , and 16 also had a small supraspinatus tendon tear . these 16 had rotator cuff repairs . twenty-six patients were also treated with distal clavicle excision , and seven had tenodesis of the long head of the biceps brachii . the average age of the patients was 50 years ( range , 23-75 years ) . all patients were followed for an average of eight years ( range , three to 13 years ) . at final evaluation , no or slight pain was present in 77 % of the shoulders : 39 of 50 without tendon tearing and 12 of 16 with tendon tearing and repair . active shoulder abduction averaged 167 degrees . ninety-two percent returned to employment , including 18 % with some job modification . eighty-six percent returned to recreational athletics , 20 % with some modification of activities . seven patients had additional surgical treatment . the progression of rotator cuff disease is not always prevented , but the need for subsequent shoulder treatment generally decreases . 
humeral head retroversion in patients with unstable humeroscapular joints . humeral head retroversion and shoulder rotation in both the frontal and scapular plane were studied in 34 patients with anterior glenohumeral instability . twenty-two patients had traumatic anterior shoulder dislocations and another 12 patients had nontraumatic dislocations with generalized joint laxity . patients with traumatic recurrent dislocations had a smaller than normal retroversion angle in the unstable shoulder . the angles were 26 degrees on the dominant side and 23 degrees on the nondominant side compared with 33 degrees and 29 degrees , respectively , in normal shoulders . the stable contralateral shoulder joint was clinically and roentgenographically similar to the normal shoulder . the patients with nontraumatic dislocations had increased rotation and smaller retroversion angles , irrespective of stability in the shoulder joint . the retroversion angles were 18 degrees for unstable shoulders on the dominant side and 15 degrees on the nondominant side . the retroversion angle of the stable contralateral joint in these patients was less in five of eight shoulders . 
chondrosarcoma complicating total hip arthroplasty in maffucci 's syndrome . a 70-year-old woman who was followed for 60 years for maffucci 's syndrome required a total hip arthroplasty ( tha ) of the right hip for degenerative arthritis . this did not relieve pain . three years later , chondrosarcoma of the femur developed around the femoral component and was fatal . the roentgenographic changes after the tha were incorrectly interpreted as being caused by infection . 
total hip arthroplasties in patients younger than 45 years . a nine - to ten-year follow-up study . eighty-one cemented total hip arthroplasties in patients younger than 45 years were reviewed with an average 9.2-year follow-up interval . the results were compared with the same group previously reported at an average follow-up time of 4.5 years . clinically satisfactory results were 58 % compared with 78 % at 4.5 years . the revision rate almost tripled to 33 % . impending failure was present in 56 % of those hips not yet revised . in the first study , technique was a primary determinant of success . in this report there was no influence of technique on the incidence of revision . age did not influence revision rates either , with 35 % in patients younger than 30 years and 32 % in patients aged 30-45 years . patients younger than 30 years had fewer satisfactory clinical results and a higher rate of impending failure . as in the first study , the best results were obtained in patients with inflammatory collagen disease aged from 30 to 45 years . 
giant-cell reparative granuloma of the hand and foot bones . giant-cell reparative granuloma ( gcrg ) is an uncommon benign reactive intraosseous lesion . it occurs in the skull , jaw , hand , foot , and facial bones and rarely in other skeletal sites . it is a solitary , lytic , expanded lesion and infrequently may extend into the surrounding soft tissue . histologically , it is composed of fibrous stroma with spindle-shaped fibroblasts , multinucleated giant cells , and inflammatory mononuclear cells . areas of hemorrhage are uniformly present . it may be difficult to distinguish this entity from an aneurysmal bone cyst , giant-cell tumor , or brown tumor of hyperparathyroidism because of roentgenographic and histologic similarities . accurate diagnosis is essential for appropriate treatment ; serum calcium , phosphorus , and parathyroid hormone levels should be measured . curettage and bone graft are effective treatments for both primary lesions and recurrences . second recurrences are rare . 
primary inflammatory reaction in synovial fluid and tissue in rabbit immobilization osteoarthritis . the kinetics and composition of the primary cellular inflammatory process were studied in the synovial fluid ( sf ) and synovial tissue ( st ) compartments of a rabbit knee immobilization osteoarthritis model . immobilization induced rapid migration of neutrophils ( 59 % + / - 26 % of all cells ) into sf in three days , which was accompanied by nonspecific esterase-positive monocytes ( 71 % + / - 8 % of all mononuclear cells ) . this finding suggests that non-specific inflammation mediated by phagocytic leukocytes predominates the cellular response in the sf compartment . in contrast , morphometric analysis of st proper showed an inflammatory mononuclear cell response , the intensity of which diminished over time during the study period from day 3 ( 416 + / - 59 cells per 0.049 mm2 st tissue ) through day 10 ( 305 + / - 32 cells ) to day 35 ( 174 + / - 36 cells ) . a dotlike t-pattern alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase ( anae ) was found in the t-cell-dependent areas of secondary lymphatic tissue in the spleen , enabling immunocytologic anae marker studies . the st response in situ was predominated by tissue macrophage , though infiltrates rich in t lymphocytes were present in the immediate sublining stroma . there was a significant correlation between the intensity of the sf cell response ( total recovery ) and the percentage of neutrophils , but there was no correlation between the intensity of the st response and the proportion of t lymphocytes . these t-cell accumulations together with the local proliferation of fibroblastlike lining cells and stromal fibroblasts suggest that the primary inflammatory cell response is not caused by either wear and tear or mechanically by cartilage fragments . 
comparison of patellar resurfacing versus nonresurfacing in bilateral total knee arthroplasty . twenty-five patients who received bilateral total knee prostheses were studied to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of patellar resurfacing . only patients with advanced patellofemoral disease were included in the study . in all patients , patellar resurfacing had been done in the right knee but not in the left knee . the depuy porous-coated implant was used in all cases . subjective criteria were compared with objective criteria , which included range of motion , knee flexion and extension , and roentgenographic evaluation . the findings in this study suggest that patellar resurfacing can offer the patient a superior knee with regard to pain relief and strength . 
the inwardly pointing knee . an unrecognized problem of external rotational malalignment . twelve patients with inwardly pointing knees had chronic knee pain and disability suggestive of patellofemoral subluxation . none had responded well to conservative measures or surgical correction at the level of the soft tissues . their pattern of limb alignment was studied roentgenographically and was found to differ significantly from the control group of 49 healthy young adults . the deformities primarily related to the tibia were external tibial torsion , excess varus angulation of the tibial plateau , and varus knees . angulation of the femoral condyles was normal and femoral anteversion did not appear to contribute significantly to the deformity . surgery in seven cases ( nine knees ) was by derotation valgus maquet osteotomy of the tibia and lateral release realignment of the patellae . outcome assessments after a three-year follow-up period ( five knees ) were excellent . early results on the remaining cases were satisfactory . 
late recurrence of varus deformity after proximal tibial osteotomy . one hundred thirteen knees with medial gonarthrosis in 95 patients were treated by valgus-producing proximal tibial osteotomy and followed clinically and roentgenographically for a minimum of five years ( mean , 6.3 years ) . sixty-four knees ( 57 % ) were pain free or had only mild discomfort when walking . the standing femorotibial angle decreased from a postoperative average of 9.3 degrees valgus to 7.8 degrees valgus at the final follow-up examination . the tendency for varus recurrence greater than 5 degrees and for medial - or lateral-compartment arthritic progression was evaluated using the kaplan-meier survival method . varus recurred in 18 % , lateral-compartment arthritic progression in 60 % , and medial-compartment arthritic progression in 83 % by nine years after surgery . the probability of arthritic progression is much higher than the probability of significant varus recurrence in long-term roentgenographic follow-up studies of patients with valgus-producing proximal tibial osteotomies . 
two - to four-year results of posterior cruciate-sparing condylar total knee arthroplasty with an uncemented femoral component . one hundred fourteen hybrid press-fit condylar total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) were reviewed an average of 2.8 years after surgery to determine if this method of implantation provided satisfactory results compared with conventional cemented tkas . ninety-three percent of the knees had good or excellent results , and 94 % of the knees had at most only mild or occasional pain . one knee with a metal-backed patella was revised for mechanical failure of the patellar button . roentgenographic analysis of the femoral component interface showed that 30 % of knees had a radiolucent line in at least one zone . however , none of the lines was wider than 1 mm , and none was about the central stem . there were no signs of loosening about any of the components . it was concluded that hybrid tka provides a good and predictable result that is comparable to cemented tka . 
fetal imaging in the skeletal dysplasias . second-trimester diagnosis of fetal skeletal dysplasia is becoming increasingly common . by careful examination of the fetus for skeletal mineralization , shape and size of long bones and cranium , and abnormalities of other organ systems , a definitive diagnosis can often be achieved by ultrasound . fetal radiography is very helpful in giving more information about bone shape and mineralization as well as in confirming the diagnosis . subsequent obstetric management should be dictated by the natural history of the disease , the parents ' wishes , and the gestational age at diagnosis . because many of these disorders have a high recurrence risk , genetic counseling and follow-up are an important part of the management of these patients . 
does alternate-day cloprednol therapy prevent bone loss ? a longitudinal double-blind , controlled clinical study . osteoporosis is a serious side effect of systemic treatment with steroids . cloprednol , a synthetic glucocorticoid with an anti-inflammatory potency twice that of prednisone , causes less calcium and nitrogen excretion than does prednisone in equipotent doses . therefore a double-blind study was undertaken comparing the effects of alternate-day cloprednol and prednisone therapy on bone mineral density in 39 patients ( cloprendol : 13 men and 8 women aged 48.5 + / - 2.8 years ; prednisone : 9 men and 9 women aged 49.7 + / - 1.7 years ) with lung diseases . ten patients with asthma ( 9 men and 1 woman aged 37.8 + / - 3.7 years ) inhaling daily beclomethasone served as control subjects . trabecular and total bone density of the distal tibia and radius was determined quarterly during 1 year with a special-purpose computed tomographic system . initial mean trabecular bone density of the patients receiving cloprednol and prednisone was 17 % below normal . after a treatment period of 1 year , we found a loss of radial trabecular bone density ( mean + / - sem ) of 1.33 % + / - 0.49 % in the cloprednol group and 2.38 % + / - 0.69 % in the prednisone group . in postmenopausal women , prednisone but not cloprednol therapy caused significant ( p less than 0.01 ) trabecular bone loss ( 5.29 % + / - 0.99 % versus 0.70 % + / - 0.65 % ) . the control group lost 0.91 % + / - 0.79 % . loss of cortical bone was insignificant in all three groups . in post-menopausal women , 1 year of alternate-day cloprednol therapy was associated with significantly less bone loss than was prednisone therapy in equipotent dosages . 
studies of the porcine intestinal calcitriol receptor in pseudo-vitamin d deficiency rickets type i. 1 . calcitriol ( 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ) concentrations in plasma of humans and pigs with pseudo-vitamin d deficiency rickets type i ( pvdri ) have been reported to be significantly lower than in normal subjects and animals . sometimes , however , calcitriol concentrations are relatively high in these subjects and animals ( 50-80 pmol/l ) and nevertheless clinical symptoms of rickets develop . we have studied whether or not the development of rachitic lesions in piglets with pvdri is due to altered binding properties of the intestinal calcitriol receptor in addition to the defective renal production of calcitriol . pvdri piglets with clinical and biochemical symptoms of rickets ( hypocalcaemia , increased activity of alkaline phosphatase ) and with calcitriol concentrations in plasma of 83.7 + / - 4.2 pmol/l ( n = 7 ) were used . they were compared with unaffected piglets with normal calcitriol concentrations ( 178.0 + / - 17.7 pmol/l , n = 9 ) . 2 . the equilibrium dissociation constant ( kd ) of the receptor in the pvdri piglets ( 0.31 + / - 0.05 nmol/l ) and in control piglets ( 0.33 + / - 0.05 nmol/l ) and the maximum binding capacity ( bmax . ) ( 674 + / - 103 and 719 + / - 122 fmol/mg of protein , respectively ) were not different ( n = 9 ) . 3 . the association rate constant ( kass ) at 4 degrees c [ 0.15 x 10 ( 7 ) and 0.24 x 10 ( 7 ) ( mol/l ) -1 min-1 ] and the dissociation rate constant ( kdiss ) ( 0.40 x 10 ( -3 ) and 0.48 x 10 ( -3 ) min-1 ; half-life of dissociation = 24.1 and 28.9 h , respectively ) were also not different between diseased and control piglets . 
kyphoscoliosis and respiratory failure . a patient treated with assisted ventilation for 27 years . a 62-year-old woman had had kyphoscoliosis since age 12 years . respiratory failure developed at age 35 years following a respiratory infection . a tracheostomy was done and she required assisted ventilation using a respiratory ( bird ) . many attempts at weaning her from the ventilator were unsuccessful . she has remained dependent on assisted ventilation for more than 27 years but has had a relatively comfortable and meaningful life . in 1983 , a left pleuroscopy was done related to recurrent pneumothorax and numerous small bullae were seen on the lung surface . recent investigation using computed tomographic scanning has shown patchy areas of emphysema in both lungs . emphysema is not a feature of kyphoscoliosis and it is suggested that intermittent positive pressure applied to the lung over long duration may cause the lung destruction of emphysema . 
macrophage colony stimulating factor restores in vivo bone resorption in the op/op osteopetrotic mouse . the op/op variant of murine osteopetrosis is a recessive mutation characterized by impaired bone resorption due to lack of osteoclasts . cultured osteoblasts and fibroblasts from this mutant do not secrete m-csf activity and resident macrophages are absent in bone marrow . this failure has been related to a mutation within the m-csf coding region . we report now that the administration of recombinant human m-csf ( rhm-csf ) corrects in vivo the impaired bone resorption in this animal . the treatment restores the bone marrow cavity virtually absent in the op/op animal and induces the appearance of resorbing osteoclasts and of resident bone marrow macrophages . this proves that the deficiency of m-csf is the cause of the op/op bone disorder and that this cytokine is directly or indirectly necessary for physiological osteoclastogenesis , the resulting bone resorption and for the establishment of bone marrow hemopoiesis . 
soft tissue rheumatism of the upper extremities : diagnosis and management . upper extremity tendinitis and bursitis are usually the result of repetitive microtrauma , probably resulting in disruption of fibers . a focus of inflammation often occurs , producing pain , spasm , and disability . with a careful history and physical exam , the diagnosis can be made , distinguishing soft tissue rheumatism from arthritis . treatment consists of rest , heat or ice , and frequently , the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or injections to control the inflammatory response . protection from repeated trauma may be beneficial in preventing recurrence . 
calcium absorption in bone disease associated with chronic cholestasis during childhood . fractional absorption of calcium was determined in 9 children aged 4.9 to 16.9 yr with chronic cholestatic liver disease to determine the role of calcium malabsorption in the development of metabolic bone disease . radiological evidence of rickets was absent in all patients , but bone density , measured by single beam photon absorptiometry of the distal radius , was reduced in eight of nine subjects . serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations were normal in all except one subject . serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentration was decreased compared with controls in only one of nine patients , but serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d concentrations were diminished in seven of nine subjects . in all subjects , dietary calcium and phosphorus intakes were greater than 80 % of the rda . fractional absorption of calcium , determined by oral and intravenous administration of stable calcium isotopes , was similar in cholestatic compared with control subjects ( 37.1 % + / - 12.5 % vs. 34.0 % + / - 16.4 % ) . in the cholestatic subjects , calcium absorption correlated with serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d ( r = 0.871 , p less than 0.002 ) but not 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentrations . calcium balance , assessed by the duplicate diet method , was positive in four of five subjects . anthropometric measurements were performed to examine the relationship between nutritional status and bone mineral content . heights of all subjects were less than or equal to the 10th percentile and fat stores and somatic protein stores were less than the 25th percentile in six of nine subjects . we conclude that factors other than calcium malabsorption and decreased serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentration contribute to diminished bone mass in children with cholestatic liver disease . 
results of treatment of displaced patellar fractures by partial patellectomy . the results of partial patellectomy as a treatment for displaced patellar fractures were assessed retrospectively with use of clinical , radiographic , and isokinetic strength-testing criteria . forty patients who had been followed for an average of 8.4 years were studied . in the extremity that had been operated on , the mean active range of motion was 94 per cent , the circumference of the thigh was 100 per cent , and the strength of the quadriceps was 85 per cent of these measurements in the contralateral extremity . the over-all result was rated as excellent in twenty patients , good in eleven , fair in six , and poor in three . there was a significant statistical correlation between the type of fracture and the outcome . the results of this study indicate that partial patellectomy can be an effective treatment for selected patellar fractures . 
arthrometric evaluation of knees that have a torn anterior cruciate ligament . we used the kt-1000 arthrometer to test the knees of 107 patients who had an acute tear of the anterior cruciate ligament , 153 patients who had a chronic tear , and 141 control subjects , for a total of 401 individuals . the three testing parameters were the extent of anterior translation at eighty-nine newtons of force and at maximum manual force , and the compliance index . the differences between the involved and the uninvolved knees were calculated . at eighty-nine newtons , all but one of the control subjects had anterior translation of ten millimeters or less , compared with 58 per cent of the patients who had a chronic tear . at maximum manual force , all but two of the control subjects had translation of ten millimeters or less , compared with 20 per cent of the patients who had an acute or a chronic tear . analysis of variance showed that the clinical diagnosis correlated well with the results for all tests ( p less than 0.001 ) . however , when the uninjured knees of patients who had an acute or a chronic tear were compared with the knees of the control subjects , significant differences were noted ( p less than 0.001 to 0.006 ) . in the patients who had a chronic tear , there was no relationship between the time from injury to operation and the extent of anterior translation . the arthrometric test at maximum manual force was the strongest discriminant ; it differentiated normal from abnormal knees ( p less than 0.001 ) with high sensitivity ( 92 per cent ) , high specificity ( 95 per cent ) , and high positive predictive accuracy ; the cut-off point was eleven millimeters or less . 
measurement of anterior-posterior displacement of the knee . a comparison of the results with instrumented devices and with clinical examination . thirteen subjects who had normal knees and fifteen patients who had a chronic rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament were tested in order to compare the measurements of tibiofemoral displacement as recorded by four commercial devices : the acufex knee-signature system , the genucom knee-analysis system , the medmetric kt-1000 arthrometer , and the stryker knee-laxity tester . anterior and posterior displacement were measured at forces of eighty-nine newtons ( twenty pounds ) and 133 newtons ( thirty pounds ) . we found significant differences in reproducibility of measurement among the devices . the acufex , medmetric , and stryker devices had more reproducible measurements , and they could be used to identify 80 to 90 per cent of the normal subjects and anterior cruciate-deficient patients . the genucom device had poorer reproducibility of measurement , and it tended to register greater differences in displacement between the right and left knees of normal subjects . 
evaluation of an electrogoniometric instrument for measurement of laxity of the knee . eight lower extremities from cadavera were tested for anterior-posterior laxity in two positions before and after transection of the anterior cruciate ligament . at critical points in the tests , electrogoniometric and radiographic measurements of tibiofemoral translation were compared . by direct measurement , we determined the accuracy of the radiographic method to + / - 0.4 millimeter ( 95 per cent ) in measuring anterior-posterior translations of the tibia with respect to the femur . the electrogoniometer estimated displacement of the tibia with respect to the femur during the anterior drawer test to be 3.5 + / - 8.2 millimeters at 90 degrees of flexion of the knee and 11.1 + / - 16.1 millimeters at 30 degrees of flexion . direct comparison of these measurements with those obtained by means of the radiographic technique showed that the electrogoniometer tended , on average , to overestimate the tibial translation . the amount of overestimation was 0.7 millimeter for intact knees and 1.9 millimeters after sacrifice of the anterior cruciate ligament . despite this small average error in measurement of tibial translation , the difference between individual electrogoniometric and radiographic measurements varied greatly , with a 95 per cent confidence limit of + / - 5.5 millimeters . the error of the electrogoniometric measurements varied with the angle of flexion of the knee during testing , both the accuracy and the reliability of the electrogoniometric measurements being greatly diminished at 30 degrees of flexion . the electrogoniometric method also tended to overestimate tibial internal rotation ( by an average of 10.5 degrees ) and external rotation ( by an average of 9.3 degrees ) ; the reliability of these measurements was + / - 6.9 degrees . 
use of a knee-brace for control of tibial translation and rotation . a comparison , in cadavera , of available models . we assessed the relative restraints that are provided by fourteen currently available functional knee-braces , using six limbs in cadavera . the tests were made at 30 and 60 degrees of flexion of the knee , and a mechanical loading system applied loads that caused anterior-posterior translation and internal-external rotation . the braces limited abnormal tibiofemoral displacements by 10 to 75 per cent in translation ; there was more variation in rotation . this study demonstrated that functional knee-braces provide a restraining influence that may be beneficial in the control of abnormal displacements of the knee , but that the degree of restraint varies considerably . 
hypertension after operative correction of club-foot deformity . severe hypertension occurred as a postoperative complication after correction of a club-foot deformity in four children ( seven feet ) who were between the ages of two and three years and had no history of hypertension . the hypertension subsided slowly after administration of antihypertensive medications or more rapidly after release of the correction that had been obtained operatively . 
the lateral approach for operative release of post-traumatic contracture of the elbow . a lateral approach was used to release a post-traumatic contracture of the elbow in seven patients , and the results were evaluated an average of thirty-eight months postoperatively . extension improved from an average flexion contracture of 45 degrees preoperatively to one of 12 degrees postoperatively , and the average point of maximum flexion increased from 116 degrees preoperatively to 129 degrees postoperatively . the average arc of motion increased 46 degrees . all patients began using a continuous-passive-motion device immediately after the operation . there were no problems with wound-healing or formation of heterotopic bone . 
arthrodesis of the ankle with cancellous-bone screws and fibular strut graft . biomechanical analysis . the stability of an arthrodesis with two cancellous-bone screws across the ankle joint was evaluated in eighteen ankles from fresh-frozen cadavera . tibiotalar motion was recorded in response to the following loading modes : medial-lateral moment , plantar flexion-dorsiflexion moment , and internal-external tibial torque . the series of loading tests was performed with two cancellous-bone screws through the tibia into the talus and a lateral fibular strut graft fixed with a proximal and a distal screw . the tests were repeated after the strut graft was removed , and again after it had been reapplied . the amount of motion at the site of the arthrodesis was greatest with tibial torque and was least with medial-lateral bending ; this was true for specimens with or without a fibular strut graft . removal of the strut graft allowed increased tibiotalar motion for all modes of loading ; increases in motion were far greater for specimens of poor bone quality . 
spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia of maroteaux . the cases of four patients who had an unusual clinical entity of disproportionately short stature , referred to as spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia of maroteaux , are described . in patients who have this syndrome , the abnormalities are confined to the musculoskeletal system . the patients do not have corneal opacities or increased excretion of keratosulphate . the mode of transmission appears to be autosomal dominant . platyspondylysis is present but there are no anterior tongue-like deformities of the vertebral bodies . because of the presence of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and normal intelligence , and the lack of abnormalities at birth , this entity seems to mimic morquio syndrome . however , unlike morquio syndrome , the disorder involves no biochemical abnormalities . thus , the entity may be classified as new . 
the patellofemoral joint after total knee arthroplasty without patellar resurfacing . one hundred total knee replacements with a total condylar prosthesis and without patellar resurfacing were followed for a minimum of two years . eighty-four per cent of the knees were affected by osteoarthrosis . graded according to the knee-rating system of the hospital for special surgery , there were eighteen excellent , fifty-three good , eighteen fair , and eleven poor results . at the most recent follow-up , twenty-nine knees ( 29 per cent ) , nine of which were affected by rheumatoid arthritis , were still painful in the patellofemoral area . the height and weight of the patient definitely influenced the amount of patellofemoral pain postoperatively . small patients who had osteoarthrosis were exceptionally free of pain , regardless of sex , age , or level of activity . it seems that the best approach to patellofemoral replacement includes resurfacing of the patella in all patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and in patients who have osteoarthrosis if they have preoperative patellofemoral pain , are more than 160 centimeters tall , weigh more than sixty kilograms , and have advanced changes in the patella at the time of the operation . 
thyroid abnormalities in the mccune-albright syndrome : ultrasonography and hormonal studies . hyperthyroidism and goiter have been reported frequently in association with the mccune-albright syndrome ( mas ) . to assess the prevalence and extent of thyroid abnormalities in girls with mas , we studied 19 patients [ mean age , 6.6 + / - 1 ( + / - se ) yr ; mean bone age , 9.5 + / - 1 yr ] and 18 normal control girls ( mean age , 10.3 + / - 0.5 yr ) . all patients appeared euthyroid when examined ; 1 was taking antithyroid medication . ultrasonography revealed thyroid abnormalities in 7 patients , including generalized inhomogeneity , small ( 2-4 mm ) and large ( greater than 10 mm ) hypoechoic regions , and echogenic nodule-like regions . repeat ultrasonography after intervals of 9-18 months showed enlargement of large hypoechoic regions in 2 patients . in the patients with abnormal ultrasound findings , serum tsh was uniformly low or suppressed both at baseline and after administration of 7 micrograms/kg trh . the mean serum t3 level in this group was significantly higher than that in controls ( 2.9 + / - 0.2 vs. 2.3 + / - 0.1 nmol/l ; p less than 0.05 ) , whereas mean serum t4 , free t4 , and t4-binding globulin levels did not differ from those of controls . in the remaining 11 patients , thyroid ultrasonography was normal , and the serum levels of t3 , t4 , free t4 , and tsh were normal . bioassay showed no detectable thyroid-stimulating activity in the plasma of the mas patients with suppressed tsh levels . none of the patients became overtly thyrotoxic over 3-6 yr of observation , and their serum iodothyronine levels remained stable . we conclude that thyroid dysfunction is common in girls with mas , but that it may be clinically occult and not rapidly progressive . the thyroid dysfunction , like that of the ovaries , is associated with structural abnormalities in the gland itself , together with suppressed levels of the respective stimulating hormones . 
mandibular osteomyelitis in a patient with sickle cell anemia : report of case . a case is presented in which mandibular osteomyelitis and mental nerve paresthesia developed in a patient with sickle cell anemia . this infection appeared to precipitate a sickle cell crisis . the mechanisms for these patients ' propensity to infection and the diagnosis and management of sickle cell osteomyelitis of the jaws are discussed . 
musculoskeletal impairments and physical disablement among the aged . this article summarizes the results of a longitudinal investigation of the progression of sight , hearing , and musculoskeletal impairments and their association with change in physical disability , in 10 adls among members of the massachusetts health care panel study . the findings confirm widely held clinical beliefs that specific types of musculoskeletal decrement are an important cause of physical disability among older persons . decrement in hand function is a significant musculoskeletal impairment influencing limitations in basic adl , and progression of instrumental adl dysfunction is influenced by progression of lower extremity impairments . progression of sight and hearing impairments was not associated with change in physical disability . musculoskeletal impairments , one of the most prevalent and symptomatic chronic complaints of middle and old age , deserve increased attention from epidemiologists , disability researchers , and clinicians seeking ways to prevent disablement among the aged . 
monosodium urate crystals stimulate phospholipase a2 enzyme activities and the synthesis of a phospholipase a2-activating protein . eicosanoids are important mediators of the inflammatory response to monosodium urate crystals ( msuc ) that results in gout . phospholipase enzymes cleave fatty acids from membrane phospholipids , and this is thought to be the rate-limiting step in eicosanoid production . to understand better the mechanism of eicosanoid production in this disease , we stimulated human peripheral blood neutrophils and monocytes with msuc and measured phospholipase enzyme activities . msuc stimulated both intracellular and secretory phospholipase a2 enzyme activities in a time and concentration-dependent manner . specificity was observed , as phospholipase c activities were not affected . pretreatment with colchicine , but not aspirin , indomethacin , allopurinol , or islet activating protein , abrogated the enhanced phospholipase a2 activities . we have recently isolated and characterized a phospholipase a2 activating protein termed plap from synovial fluid from patients with rheumatoid arthritis , and from murine and bovine cell lines . plap was detected in gouty synovial fluid by immunodot blotting and elisa assays and expressed the same characteristics as plap identified from other sources . to examine the role of plap in msuc-induced phospholipase a2 stimulation , we treated cells with msuc and observed an increase in immunoreactive plap . this response also could be blunted by colchicine , but not other drugs . both phospholipase a2 and plap induced production by human monocytes of pge2 and leukotriene b4 by neutrophils . these findings suggest that phospholipase a2 activation in response to msuc requires an intact microtubule structure , and that phospholipase a2 and plap may be important modulators of at least a portion of the gouty inflammatory response . 
a distinctive triad of malformations of the central nervous system in the meckel-gruber syndrome . a distinct triad of central nervous system ( cns ) malformations ( prosencephalic dysgenesis , occipital exencephalocele and rhombic roof dysgenesis ) was present in seven cases of the meckel-gruber syndrome examined at autopsy . we compared our findings with those previously described . microcephaly , sloping forehead , posterior occipital exencephalocele , cerebellar hypoplasia , chiari malformation , hydrocephalus , polymicrogyria , arhinencephaly , holoprosencephaly and anencephaly constituted a broad spectrum of the reported cns anomalies . few reports contained a comprehensive description of the observed cns malformations . in those reports , and in our cases , features of prosencephalic dysgenesis included agenesis of olfactory bulbs and tracts ( arhinencephaly ) , hypoplasia of optic nerves and chiasm , agenesis of corpus callosum , fused thalami or complete holoprosencephaly . the occipital encephalocele has consisted of a displacement of rhombic roof elements , including caudal third ventricle , cerebellar vermis and fourth ventricle , extruded through an enlarged posterior fontanelle rather than through an occipital cranium bifidum and is thus more precisely labeled an exencephalocele . different degrees of dysgenesis of posterior fossa structures , described by some as a variant of dandy-walker cyst with features of a chiari malformation , were often associated with this occipital exencephalocele . this pattern of cns anomalies represents a triad of malformations probably associated with defective ventral induction of the developing cns by the prechordal mesoderm . 
limited precision of lumbar spine dual-photon absorptiometry by variations in the soft-tissue background . the estimation error due to variations in soft-tissue baseline in lumbar bone mineral content ( bmc ) measured by dual-photon absorptiometry ( dpa ) was calculated with a new method of automatic baseline subtraction . in water phantom measurements , the s.d. of the soft-tissue ( st ) baseline matched closely ( r = 0.98 ) to the random error , calculated using 44 kev and 100 kev count rates and the directly determined baseline variations . in 21 volunteers and in 70 patients with osteoporosis , the st variations were larger than the expected random error , revealing a source of error related to the inhomogeneity of soft tissue . the estimation error in bmc caused by st variations was 0.7 % in healthy subjects ( mean bmc 40.5 gha ) and 1.5 % in patients ( mean bmc = 26.4 gha ) . these results indicate that st-related errors are an important limit to the precision of lumbar dpa measurements . 
evaluation of anterior maxillary alveolar ridge resorption when opposed by the transmandibular implant . fifteen edentulous patients with complaints regarding denture comfort and/or function were treated with the transmandibular implant . all patients were restored with conventional maxillary dentures opposed by implant-supported removable prostheses . two to 4 years after surgery , these patients were evaluated for vertical and horizontal maxillary bone loss with a radiographic analysis developed by the authors . with this technique , attention was focused on vertical alveolar ridge resorption in the anterior maxilla . although the sample size was small , the findings from this study indicate that vertical bone loss in the anterior maxilla does occur when a maxillary denture is opposed by an implant-supported overdenture . comparison of these results with a previous study that evaluated anterior maxillary resorption when a complete maxillary denture opposed natural mandibular anterior teeth and a distal extension removable partial denture demonstrated no statistically significant difference . 
rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure associated with cocaine abuse . cocaine abuse has emerged as a major public health problem among young adults . illicit use of cocaine has been associated with an increasing array of medical complications . both traumatic and nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis , often complicated by acute renal failure , has recently been described following cocaine abuse . the present report describes our experience with 15 such patients and serves to further define the spectrum of muscle injury associated with cocaine abuse ranging from the incidental finding of elevated serum levels of muscle enzymes to acute renal failure . those patients who developed renal failure experienced more severe rhabdomyolysis in association with trauma , seizures or hyperpyrexia . 
indirect revascularization of the lower extremity by means of microvascular free-muscle flap -- a preliminary report . we describe the treatment of a patient with end-stage peripheral vascular disease and ischemic ulceration of the lower extremity in whom an obliteration of the distal arterial bed precluded conventional arterial reconstruction . a nonhealing dorsal foot ulcer was debrided , and soft tissue reconstruction was accomplished by the free microsurgical transfer of a muscle flap to the distal lower extremity . arterial inflow to this free flap was provided by a contralateral reversed saphenous vein graft from the proximal arterial tree of the leg . this procedure resulted in a healed wound , stable coverage , and limb salvage . the patient also noted complete relief of rest pain and improvement in his claudication symptoms . a follow-up arteriogram was done 2 months after surgery . contrast injection directly into the artery of this flap showed new blood vessel growth from the muscle flap into the foot with anastomoses of these " new vessels " to the patient 's native circulation . this experience suggests that limb salvage may be possible by the free microvascular transplantation of a muscle flap onto the limb in selected patients whose limbs are deemed " nonreconstructible . " . 
diclofenac-associated hepatotoxicity diclofenac sodium , a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) recently released in the united states , was associated with the development of significant hepatitis in seven patients , with one associated death . signs and symptoms developed within several weeks of initiation of drug use and generally resolved 4 to 6 weeks following discontinuation of use of the drug . the only patient rechallenged with the drug developed a recurrence of her hepatic abnormalities . in one patient , fatal , fulminant hepatitis developed despite early withdrawal of the drug . review of the european literature disclosed three additional fatalities associated with diclofenac therapy . it is unclear whether the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher with this drug compared with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . careful patient monitoring is advised , and prompt discontinuation of the drug is suggested when signs or symptoms of liver disease develop . 
polymyositis : a case history approach to the differential diagnosis and treatment . a wide range of conditions can mimic polymyositis . thus , diagnosing this condition can be a challenge . although no single criterion is diagnostic of polymyositis , the following criteria have been proposed and widely used : ( 1 ) symmetric proximal muscle weakness ; ( 2 ) characteristic violaceous rash on the hands , elbows , and knees ; ( 3 ) increased muscle enzymes in the serum ; ( 4 ) characteristic electromyographic findings ( insertional activity , fibrillation potentials , motor unit potentials of increased frequency and decreased duration , and normal conduction velocity in nerves ) ; and ( 5 ) muscle biopsy specimen with characteristic inflammatory and myopathic changes . although polymyositis primarily involves muscle , up to 20 % of patients may have extramuscular problems . the main treatment for polymyositis is high-dose corticosteroids . in corticosteroid-resistant patients , methotrexate is often effective . in this report , case histories are presented to highlight the usefulness and the limitations of the common diagnostic criteria for polymyositis . 
electrophysiological spectrum of inclusion body myositis . we present electrodiagnostic data on 30 patients with inclusion body myositis ( ibm ) in order to better delineate its electrophysiological features . comprehensive electromyography ( emg ) and nerve conduction studies ( ncs ) were performed in all cases . twelve patients had single fiber electromyography ( sfemg ) . emg showed abundant short-small motor unit potentials ( mup ) with fibrillations and positive sharp waves in 56.6 % of patients , and a mixed pattern of large and small mup in 36.7 % . in 6.7 % , only " neurogenic " features were seen . ncs were slow in 33.3 % . sfemg revealed a mildly abnormal jitter and a slightly increased fiber density . ibm demonstrates a heterogeneous emg profile . a pattern of large and small mup is highly suggestive of ibm but is seen in only about one third of cases . 
central changes in hypothyroid myopathy : a case report . a muscle biopsy from a patient with hypothyroid myopathy showed striking central changes . " cores " were seen in most type 1 fibers with oxidative enzyme preparations . electron microscopy of these areas revealed z disc streaming , myofilament disruption , and absent mitochondria . the myopathy rapidly improved with thyroxine treatment . this biopsy is of interest , as numerous " cores " have not previously been reported in hypothyroid myopathy . 
quantitative electromyography in polymyositis : a reappraisal . manual analysis of motor unit action potentials ( muaps ) was performed in 33 patients with polymyositis of whom 16 were studied in the acute stage and 17 in the chronic stage . contrary to common description of " myopathic potentials " as being of low amplitude , short duration , and polyphasic shape , the quantitated study revealed no difference as to amplitude of short duration muaps in patients and normal subjects though short-duration muap and short duration polyphasic potentials were 4 and 3 times , respectively , more common in patients than in controls . although the mean duration of muaps usually was significantly shorter in polymyositis than in controls , the average scatter of muaps duration was the same in the 2 groups . the average incidence of polyphasic muaps was 4 times higher in patients than in controls , as was the incidence of those of long duration . to avoid misinterpretation of emg findings due to an excess of polyphasic muaps , a greater number of individual potentials than usually recommended should be collected allowing a valid estimate of the mean duration of muaps of simple configuration . 
the little women of loja -- growth hormone-receptor deficiency in an inbred population of southern ecuador . background and methods . laron-type dwarfism , which is characterized by the clinical appearance of isolated growth hormone deficiency with elevated serum levels of growth hormone and decreased serum levels of insulin-like growth factor i ( igf-i ) , has been described in approximately 50 patients . this condition is caused by a deficiency of the cellular receptor for growth hormone , and it is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait , as indicated by an equal sex distribution and a high rate of consanguinity in affected families . we studied 20 patients ( 19 females and 1 male , 2 to 49 years of age ) , from an inbred spanish population in southern ecuador , who had the clinical features of laron-type dwarfism . results . seventeen patients were members of two large pedigrees . among the 13 affected sibships , there were 19 affected and 24 unaffected female siblings and 1 affected and 21 unaffected male siblings . the patients ' heights ranged from 10.0 to 6.7 sd below the normal mean height for age in the united states . in addition to the previously described features , 15 patients had limited elbow extensibility , all had blue scleras , affected adults had relatively short extremities , and all four affected women over 30 years of age had hip degeneration . basal serum concentrations of growth hormone were elevated in all affected children ( 30 to 160 micrograms per liter ) and normal to moderately elevated in the adults . the serum level of growth hormone-binding protein ranged from 1 to 30 percent of normal ; igf-i concentrations were low -- less than or equal to 7 micrograms per liter in the children and less than or equal to 66 micrograms per liter in the adults ( normal for ecuadorean women , 98 to 238 ) . serum levels of igf-ii and growth hormone-dependent igf-binding protein-3 were also low . conclusions . we describe an inbred population with a high incidence of growth hormone-receptor deficiency resulting in a clinical picture resembling laron-type dwarfism but differing principally in showing a marked predominance of affected females . this population , of mediterranean origin , may be genetically related to other reported populations with laron-type dwarfism , but with the genetic defect linked to a trait resulting in the early fetal death of most affected males . 
characterization of a newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain : iomm-lee . a permanent malignant meningioma ( mm ) cell line of the human brain designated " iomm-lee " is reported . this cell line was successfully established from the tumor of a 61-year-old chinese man with repeated recurrent primary intraosseous malignant meningioma of the skull . it has been subcultured for more than 60 passages during the past 30 months . the doubling time of cultured cells is approximately 62 hours . tumorigenicity in athymic nude mice ( balb/c-nu/nu ) who develop multiple pulmonary metastases was observed ; the doubling time of tumor volume in vivo is approximately 5 days . karyotypic analysis revealed this cell line to be of human origin and near-diploid , with a modal chromosome number of 49 . the mesenchymal tumor marker vimentin and intracytoplasmic microfilaments were identified in the cytoplasm of tumor cells by indirect immunohistochemical peroxidase-anti-peroxidase assays and immunogold ultrastructural localization by transmission electron microscopy , respectively . scanning electron microscopy of cultured cells and xenografted tumors revealed ellipsoidal or carrot-shaped tumor cells presenting a wrinkled surface with short sparse microvilli . potential proliferating activity was determined by ki-67 monoclonal antibody ; the ki-67 labeling index of cultured cells and xenografted tumors was approximately 36 % and 30 % , respectively . this newly established malignant meningioma cell line of the human brain may prove useful as a research model . 
intradural herniation of a thoracic disc presenting as flaccid paraplegia : case report . a case of intradural herniation of a thoracic disc in a patient with a flaccid paraplegia is described . intradural herniation of a thoracic disc is considered a rare event . a review of the relevant patient literature revealed 14 other reports involving 28 patients . no other report has described a patient with an intradural thoracic disc herniation who developed a flaccid paraplegia . 
a case of dyschondroplasia associated with brain stem glioma : diagnosis by stereotactic biopsy . we present a 24-year-old patient with multiple chondromas of both hands , the pelvis , the left leg , and an associated brain stem glioma . there was no evidence of hemangioma or dyschromia , and the condition was diagnosed as ollier 's disease , a special type of dyschondroplasia like maffucci 's syndrome and kast 's disease . an increased overall risk for development of malignant skeletal and nonskeletal tumors is associated with maffucci 's syndrome . the risk of malignant degeneration is lower in ollier 's disease . a glioma in the pons and the right lobe of the cerebellum was found in this patient . the literature describes an association with gliomas in only 12 cases of dyschondroplasia and an infratentorial localization in just one case . signs of malignancy were histologically confirmed in 7 cases without significant preponderance of any one type . our patient had a low-grade brain stem astrocytoma with fibrillar and gemistocytic components . a stereotactic serial biopsy made it possible to rule out malignant degeneration . stereotactic brain tumor biopsy as a routine neurosurgical procedure is particularly valuable for deep space-occupying processes and forms the basis for therapy . in the present case , irradiation was not recommended . 
radical osteoclastic craniectomy in sagittal synostosis we report our experience in the surgical treatment of sagittal synostosis using radical osteoclastic craniectomy in 60 consecutive patients . after surgery in children aged 6 months or younger ( group i ) , reossification usually started 2 weeks postoperatively and was complete within 6 months , resulting in an optimal skull contour . in children aged 7 to 12 months ( group ii ) , reossification was prolonged and lasted for 12 months or longer . the skull contour normalized in its biparietal width and improved in sagittal diameter , remaining , however , slightly abnormal . in children older than 12 months ( group iii ) , the skull contour partly improved in the biparietal diameter but did not change in the sagittal direction . reossification was incomplete with persistent pseudosutures . enlarged frontal subarachnoid spaces were reversible or improved in all patients independent of age at the time of surgery . we encountered no complications in our series . in our opinion , radical osteoclastic craniectomy is the simplest , most efficient , and most physiologically sound method for the treatment of sagittal synostosis in patients up to 6 months of age . this procedure allows the rapidly growing brain to form its skull vault , thus providing optimal cosmetic results . in older children , osteoplastic morcellation procedures should be the treatment of choice . 
maffucci 's syndrome with bilateral cartilaginous tumors of the cerebellopontine angle . maffucci 's syndrome is characterized by the combination of multiple enchondromas ( ollier 's disease ) and hemangiomatosis . these hemangiomas develop in the subcutaneous tissue and form red-blue tumors dispersed over the whole body . intracranial involvement is rare , making a preoperative radiological diagnosis and differentiation from other tumors rather difficult . the radiological characteristics and successful removal of the intracranial part of a chondrosarcoma of the cerebellopontine angle in a case of maffucci 's syndrome are reported in this paper . 
electron transfer flavoprotein : ubiquinone oxidoreductase ( etf : qo ) deficiency in an adult . a 19-year-old woman with mild myopathic symptoms from age 6 and fasting intolerance presented with a reye-like syndrome and a myopathy . investigations disclosed a lipid storage myopathy , type ii glutaric acidemia , and carnitine deficiency in skeletal muscle . riboflavin and carnitine treatment corrected the metabolic abnormalities and she improved clinically . she later died from pulmonary complications secondary to aspiration . subsequent studies established electron transfer flavoprotein : ubiquinone oxidoreductase ( etf : qo ) deficiency ( fibroblast etf : qo activity was 2.9 mu/mg , normal range is 14.1 + / - 3.8 mu/mg ) as the cause of her illness . this is the first documented case of etf : qo diagnosed in an adult . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( l-tryptophan-associated neuromyopathy ) . histopathologic study of skeletal muscle biopsy in a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome following l-tryptophan use showed prominent lymphocytic perineuritis , neuritis , and perimysial fasciitis . the presence of perineuritis and neuritis provides a histopathologic basis for clinical features of neuropathy in eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and occurred in conjunction with a fasciitis or interstitial myositis that was predominantly perimysial and focally endomysial . 
psoriatic arthropathy of the temporomandibular joint . a case of psoriatic arthritis of both temporomandibular joints is described with a brief review of the literature and discussion on the management of this condition . to date , psoriatic arthritis has been successfully treated by conservative means . in the case reported , surgical replacement of the condyles became necessary to eliminate pain and restore function . 
quantitative evaluation of digital dental radiograph imaging systems . two digital imaging systems , a video camera and analog-to-digital converter , and a charge-coupled device linear photodiode array slide scanner , were tested for their suitability in quantitative studies of periodontal disease . the information content in the original films was estimated , and digital systems were assessed according to these requirements . radiometric and geometric performance criteria for the digital systems were estimated from measurements and observations . the scanner-based image acquisition ( digitization ) system had no detectable noise and had a modulation transfer function curve superior to that of the video-based system . the scanner-based system was equivalent to the video-based system in recording radiographic film densities and had more geometric distortion than the video-based system . the comparison demonstrated the superiority of the charge-coupled device linear array system for the quantification of periodontal disease extent and activity . 
cross-sectional radiography for implant site assessment . an accurate tomographic technique is described for acquisition of optimal cross-sectional images of implant sites before implant surgery . the described technique is applicable to tomographic systems equipped with a cephalometric head positioner . this cross-sectional tomographic technique was performed on a series of patients and the images of the first 20 patients subsequently evaluated . the cross-sectional images allowed for the characterization of the alveolar crest and visualization of anatomic structures in a buccolingual dimension while providing an accurate estimation of available vertical space from the crest . 
heritability of symptoms in an experimental model of neuropathic pain . male and female rats underwent transection and ligation of the sciatic and saphenous nerves , and the development of autonomy was monitored . the deafferented animals were then interbred , always selecting males and females that expressed relatively high and , alternatively , relatively low levels of autotomy . offspring were similarly operated and interbred . by the sixth generation of selective breeding , lines were achieved in which autotomy was consistently high ( ha ) or consistently low ( la ) . there was no indication of sex linkage . thermal and mechanical nocifensive responsiveness co-selected with propensity to express autotomy following nerve injury : response thresholds were lower in ha than in la rats . f1 hybrids formed by crossing homozygous ha and la animals showed low levels of autotomy , similar to la stock . this indicates recessive inheritance of the autotomy trait . backcrossing f1 hybrids onto the la line yielded a low autotomy phenotype in almost all cases ; backcrossing f1 hybrids onto ha stock yielded about 50 % high autotomy and 50 % low autotomy . these ratios are consistent with simple mendelian inheritance of a single gene . taken together , the data suggest that autotomy is inherited as a single-gene autosomal recessive trait . 
adrenal medullary implants in the rat spinal cord reduce nociception in a chronic pain model . previous work in this laboratory has indicated that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the rat spinal cord can reduce pain sensitivity to acute noxious stimuli , particularly following stimulation by nicotine . this most likely results from the stimulated release of opioid peptides and catecholamines from the transplanted chromaffin cells . however , chronic pain models may more closely resemble human clinical pain , and the arthritic rat model has been used for screening potential therapeutic strategies . the purpose of the present study was to assess the potential for adrenal medullary tissue implanted into the spinal subarachnoid space to alleviate chronic pain . adrenal medullary tissue was implanted into adjuvant-induced arthritic rats , and changes in body weight and vocalization responses were monitored over the 10 week course of the disease . results indicate that the severe weight reduction normally associated with this inflammatory arthritis was attenuated by adrenal medullary , but not control , implants . in addition , vocalizations were reduced in animals implanted with adrenal medullary , but not control tissue following nicotine stimulation . this reduction was blocked by the opiate antagonist , naloxone , and partially attenuated by the alpha-adrenergic antagonist , phentolamine . together , these results suggest that the transplantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord may provide a local source of opioid peptides and catecholamines for the reduction of chronic pain . 
thrombocytosis after pneumonia with empyema and other bacterial infections in children . thrombocytosis is seen in association with many conditions , including infectious diseases . we studied thrombocytosis after severe bacterial infections , particularly pneumonia with empyema in children . a systematic survey of the phenomenon was conducted . twenty-seven children admitted for pneumonia with empyema were studied . thrombocytosis ( platelet counts greater than 500 x 10 ( 3 ) / microliters ) was present in 92.5 % . platelet counts reached their maximum at 15.1 + / - 3.7 days ( range , 7 to 25 ) and declined to normal after 3 weeks of illness . compared with a healthy control group , significant thrombocytosis , but of lower incidence , was also noted in children with lobar pneumonia without pleural effusion , bacterial meningitis and osteomyelitis . platelet functions were examined in seven of the children but no abnormalities were observed . bone marrow aspiration of three children with pneumonia and empyema showed megakaryocytic hyperplasia . we found no correlation between thrombocytosis , neutrophilia , fever , the clinical course , complications , prognosis or treatment . neither thromboembolic nor hemorrhagic phenomena were observed . 
young adults with special health care needs : prevalence , severity , and access to health services . health care needs of disabled young adults and access to care are analyzed using the 1984 national health interview survey , a nationally representative sample of 10,394 randomly selected noninstitutionalized young adults aged 19 to 24 . in 1984 , 1.4 million young adults ( almost 6 % ) suffered from disabilities . the leading cause of disability was diseases of the musculoskeletal system and connective tissue . young adults living in poverty , in households where the family reference person had less than a high school education , and who were male were at elevated risk of disability . disabled young adults made almost three times as many physician contacts and were hospitalized for close to six times as many days as nondisabled young adults . one of every 5 disabled young adults was uninsured in 1984 . forty-one percent of disabled hispanic 19 - to 24-year-olds and 51 % of disabled young adults of other races were uninsured compared with 19 % of whites and blacks . research and financing policy implications are discussed . 
the older adult . a comparative assessment . thorough assessment of older men and women is a complex but vital part of their health care . the ability to differentiate the changes owing to normal aging from those resulting from pathologic processes is necessary if their lives are to be as productive and enjoyable as they are prolonged . each body system and function must be examined or tested with this difference in mind . because aging occurs in different individuals at differing rates , a variety of functions may all be considered healthy or normal . assessment findings must be viewed through the focus of the individual person as well as that of the population . the nurse will find opportunities to use assessment skills for older adults in many settings , ranging from independent living arrangements to institutional residential areas . in the community , social meeting places , day-care facilities , meal sites , and shopping areas are but a few of the places where older adults may be found , alone or in groups . assessment opportunities can be identified or structured in any milieu . the setting itself , as well as the needs of the older adult ( s ) , will help to determine the complexity of the assessment activities . the benefit to nursing of increased and expanded ability to assess the older adult is considerable . the organized concern of science and health care with aging is a relatively recent phenomenon . the older adults of today are unique -- there are more of them than ever before , and they are living longer . although their lives are not without health complications , they are , in a sense , role models for the rest of us : pathfinders in aging who can , if we observe them carefully , give us insight and direction for our own healthy aging processes and those of generations to come . nursing is uniquely poised to use our caring methodology with the older adult . the elderly are interested in their health and willingly cooperate with those whose assessments are knowledgeable and realistic . nursing is challenged to develop and implement advanced and specialized ways to identify and meet their needs . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome linked to tryptophan . eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome has been linked to ingestion of tryptophan , but the exact cause of this recently recognized syndrome is unclear . as in other reported cases , the disease in the patient described here developed while she was taking tryptophan . although eosinophilia resolved following glucocorticoid therapy , the disease in this patient continues to progress . 
diastrophic dysplasia gene maps to the distal long arm of chromosome 5 . we have used polymorphic dna markers to map the gene for a clinically well-characterized form of osteochondrodysplasia , diastrophic dysplasia ( dd ) , an autosomal recessive disorder of unknown pathogenesis . linkage was analyzed in 13 families with two or three affected sibs comprising a total of 84 individuals . positive two-point logarithm-of-odds ( lod ) scores were obtained between the dd locus and three polymorphic markers on chromosome 5 . the highest pairwise lod score estimate of 7.37 with zero recombination to locus d5s72 suggests very tight linkage . there was no evidence of heterogeneity . multipoint linkage analysis against the published order of the three loci gave the result centromere-d5s84 - ( dd , d5s72 ) - d5s61-terminus with a four-point lod score of 9.11 . the present findings place the dd locus distal to the gene for adenomatous polyposis coli on the distal part of the long arm of chromosome 5 . our results provide a basis for refining the map position of the dd locus followed by physical localization , isolation , and characterization of the gene . 
fructose-induced aberration of metabolism in familial gout identified by 31p magnetic resonance spectroscopy . the hyperuricemia responsible for the development of gouty arthritis results from a wide range of environmental factors and underlying genetically determined aberrations of metabolism . 31p magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies of children with hereditary fructose intolerance revealed a readily detectable rise in phosphomonoesters with a marked fall in inorganic phosphate in their liver in vivo and a rise in serum urate in response to very low doses of oral fructose . parents and some family members heterozygous for this enzyme deficiency showed a similar pattern when given a substantially larger dose of fructose . three of the nine heterozygotes thus identified also had clinical gout , suggesting the possibility of this defect being a fairly common cause of gout . in the present study this same noninvasive technology was used to identify the same spectral pattern in 2 of the 11 families studied with hereditary gout . in one family , the index patient 's three brothers and his mother all showed the fructose-induced abnormality of metabolism , in agreement with the maternal inheritance of the gout in this family group . the test dose of fructose used produced a significantly larger increment in the concentration of serum urate in the patients showing the changes in 31p magnetic resonance spectra than in the other patients with familial gout or in nonaffected members , thus suggesting a simpler method for initial screening for the defect . 
hypodense eosinophils and interleukin 5 activity in the blood of patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the recent recognition of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan prompted an analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophil phenotypes and of the serum eosinophil hematopoietins in this disorder . five patients with an illness characterized by the abrupt onset of aching skeletal muscles , edema , thickening and induration of the skin , and marked blood eosinophilia associated with l-tryptophan ingestion provided eosinophils , serum , or both , for evaluation . gradient sedimentation density analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophils from four of these patients revealed that 43 + / - 13 % ( mean + / - sem ) of the cells had converted to the abnormal ( hypodense ) sedimenting phenotype . when normodense eosinophils from the reference donors were cultured for 3 days in medium supplemented with increasing concentrations of serum from the patients with ems , their viability increased in a dose-dependent manner to 45 % , which was significantly augmented over the effect of normal serum . this eosinophil viability-sustaining activity was inhibited by 76 + / - 7 % ( mean + / - sem ; n = 3 ) by the addition of anti-interleukin 5 ( il-5 ) but not by neutralizing antibodies monospecific for either granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) or il-3 . il-5 , an eosinophilopoietic factor , converts normodense peripheral blood eosinophils in vitro to a hypodense sedimenting form with extended viability and augmented biologic responses to activating stimuli . thus , the presence of il-5 in the sera of patients with ems may contribute to the development and maintenance of the eosinophilia and may regulate the conversion of the peripheral blood eosinophils to the hypodense phenotype with augmented pathobiologic potential . 
treatment of craniomaxillofacial fibrous dysplasia : how early and how extensive ? twenty-eight craniomaxillofacial fibrous dysplasia patients were treated as early as the symptoms occurred . the principles of surgical treatment were based on the zones of involvement : total excision of dysplastic bone of fronto-orbital , zygoma , and upper maxillary origin ( zone 1 ) and bone reconstruction primarily ; conservative excision on hair-bearing skull ( zone 2 ) , central cranial base ( zone 3 ) , and tooth-bearing bones ( zone 4 ) ; and optic canal decompression on patients with orbital dysplasia and decreasing visual acuity . patients were followed for 1 to 11 years ( average 5.3 years ) . no recurrence or invasion of the fibrous dysplasia into the grafted bone was seen . one patient had orthognathic maxillary osteotomy on the reconstructed maxilla 6 years after initial reconstruction . five of 19 patients with alveolar dysplasia had a recurrence and were reshaped . one patient had mandibular sagittal osteotomies to set back the prognathic , fibrous dysplasic mandible after three attempts at conservative shaving . another patient with mandibular fibrous dysplasia had recurrence with pain and a hemimandibulectomy with successful immediate free vascularized iliac bone graft reconstruction . 
the use of liposuction to contour cherubism . yet another application of suction lipectomy equipment is presented to remove the pathologic tissue in cherubism . owing to the variations of consistency of the material in this condition , this technique may not be successful in all patients , but it is certainly recommended when indicated . 
estrogen therapy during menopause and the treatment of osteoporosis . estrogen remains the single most effective agent in the treatment of menopausal symptoms and prevention of bone loss . this article focuses on the use of estrogen therapy during menopause and the pharmacotherapy of osteoporosis . risks and benefits of hormonal therapy and regimen selection for menopausal women are discussed . the second section of the article focuses on current treatment strategies for osteoporosis . 
tuberculous psoas muscle abscess following chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection . a 34-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus infection and disseminated mycobacterium avium and mycobacterium intracellulare infection developed a right psoas muscle abscess due to mycobacterium tuberculosis . the abscess occurred 18 months after completion of a 12-month course of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid that was given because of a positive reaction with purified protein derivative of tuberculin . the adjacent vertebrae did not appear to be involved . the abscess was drained with a percutaneously inserted catheter , and he received standard antituberculous chemotherapy . three weeks into therapy , a second drainage with a catheter was required . the isolation of two mycobacteria in this patient and the apparent failure of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid are noted . 
a case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis the group b streptococcus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a variety of serious infections including bacteremias , puerperal sepsis , and neonatal meningitis . group b streptococcal infections of muscle are rare . we report here an unusual case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis . pyomyositis arises predominantly from infections caused by staphylococcus aureus and , occasionally , streptococcus pyogenes . because of the rarity of pyomyositis in temperate climates , the common lack of localizing signs or symptoms , and the frequently negative blood cultures , considerable delay often precedes the diagnosis of pyomyositis ; in fact , the infection has been initially misdiagnosed as muscle hematoma , cellulitis , thrombophlebitis , osteomyelitis , or neoplasm . diagnosis may be greatly aided by radiologic techniques that can demonstrate the sites of muscle enlargement and the presence of fluid collections . the response to antibiotics is usually rapid , but resolution of the infection may require aspiration of deeply situated muscle abscesses . this report describes a diabetic patient with an unusual presentation of pyomyositis that mimicked an acute abdomen . 
group c streptococcal arthritis : case report and review . streptococci account for approximately 15 % -20 % of cases of nongonococcal septic arthritis . the majority of these are due to group a streptococci , but group b and group g streptococci are being isolated more frequently . we present a case of group c streptococcal arthritis and summarize nine additional cases reported in the literature . the group c streptococci include the large colony of voges-proskauer-negative bacteria ( streptococcus equi , streptococcus equisimilis , streptococcus zooepidemicus , and streptococcus dysgalactiae ) as well as as the minute colony of voges-proskauer-positive streptococcus anginosus ( " streptococcus milleri " ) group c organisms . any joint may become infected , but joints affected by preexisting rheumatologic abnormalities are more frequently involved . bacteremia was documented in five of the 10 patients . one patient had an associated pneumonia , and another patient had an associated acute aortic valve endocarditis . none of the infections involved a prosthetic joint or an overlying cellulitis , associations reported for group g streptococcal arthritis . surgical drainage of the infected joint was required in six of the 10 patients . we concluded that the presence of two groups of organisms sharing the same lancefield group antigen necessitates the careful identification of isolates to determine potential clinical differences . 
1990 volvo award in clinical sciences . lumbar spinal pathology in cadaveric material in relation to history of back pain , occupation , and physical loading . the occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration , anular ruptures , end-plate defects , vertebral body osteophytosis , and facet joint osteoarthrosis was examined radiographically and osteologically in 86 male cadavers for whom occupational , physical loading , and back pain histories were obtained from the men 's families . history of back pain and the parameters of spinal pathology were related to the highest and lowest degrees of physical loading . in multivariate analyses , history of back injury was related to the occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration , anular ruptures , and vertebral osteophytosis . symmetric disc degeneration was associated with sedentary work , and vertebral osteophytosis was related to heavy work . history of back pain was related to occupational physical loading after control for the effects of the other covariates . the results indicate that the least pathology stemmed from moderate or mixed physical loading , but the least back pain was associated with sedentary work . 
1990 volvo award in experimental studies . anulus tears and intervertebral disc degeneration . an experimental study using an animal model . an animal model was developed to test the hypothesis that discrete peripheral tears within the anulus lead to secondary degenerative changes in other disc components . in 21 adult sheep , a cut was made in the left anterolateral anulus of three randomly selected lumbar discs . the cut was parallel and adjacent to the inferior end-plate , and had a controlled depth of 5 mm . this left the inner third of the anulus and the nucleus pulposus intact and closely reproduced the rim lear lesion described by schmorl . animals were randomly allocated to different groups in relation to the length of time interval between operation and death , varying from 1 to 18 months . at death , the lumbar spine was cut into individual joint units and each disc sectioned into six parasagittal slabs . after observation of the slabs under the dissecting microscope , two of the six slabs , the one containing the anulus lesion and a contralateral , were processed for histology . the results of this study suggest that , despite the great care taken at operation to ensure that the inner anulus was left intact , progressive failure of the inner anulus was seen in all sheep and occurred in the majority of discs between 4 and 12 months after the operation . although the outermost anulus showed the ability to heal , the defect induced by the cut led initially to deformation and bulging of the collagen bundles , and eventually to inner extension of the tear and complete failure . these findings suggest that discrete tears of the outer anulus may have a role in the formation of concentric clefts and in accelerating the development of radiating clefts . peripheral tears of the anulus fibrosus therefore may play an important role in the degeneration of the intervertebral joint complex . 
osteoporosis and back pain in the elderly . a controlled epidemiologic and radiographic study . the incidence of back pain was investigated in hip fracture patients , 50-99 years of age , and in 70 - , 75 - , and 81-year-old controls from the same population . the prevalence of vertebral fractures were evaluated from spinal radiographs . eighty hip fracture patients and 103 controls , all between 70 and 75 years of age , were included in the radiographic study . the incidence of back pain of the controls was twice that of the hip fracture patients , 45-48 % compared with 23-20 % , respectively , for both female and male subjects . conversely , vertebral fractures were radiographically shown in 43 % of the hip fracture patients and in 22 % of the controls . thus , the major explanation for longstanding back pain in the elderly does not appear to be related to spinal osteoporosis . 
computer-assisted tomography of scoliosis operated with or without harrington 's rod . biomechanics aspects of the fusion . forty-eight cases of posterior vertebral arthrodesis for scoliosis , performed with or without instrumentation , were examined using computed tomography ( ct ) scanning to study the evolving fusion mass . the authors observed that the fusion mass area is more voluminous in the cases performed without instrumentation than in the ones performed with instrumentation , and that 2 years after fusion the bone mass shows already a considerable increase . for the cases operated with harrington 's technique , the increase of the fusion mass is very slow and becomes considerable 5 years after operation . in both series , the section of the fusion masses at the apex of the curve is asymmetric ( with prevalence on the concave side ) , with an area of central resorption that shows the structure of a long bone ( box section ) . 
factors influencing the result of posterior spinal fusion in the treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis . sixty-six consecutive patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis treated by posterior spinal fusion using harrington distraction compression instrumentation were followed for a minimum of 3 years . initial surgical correction was satisfactory , but during the follow-up period , mean 4.4 years ( 3-5 years ) , there was a loss of correction . several factors ( age , sex , the number of vertebrae in the fusions , and the use of cross wires ) were important influences on correction . a method of assessing the balance of a posterior spinal fusion is described that is useful when assessing radiographs . 
the operative treatment of progressive early onset scoliosis . a preliminary report . thirteen patients with progressive early onset scoliosis have been managed operatively in an attempt to achieve correction without bracing and to allow the spine to grow . all had posterior segmental spinal instrumentation ( ssi ) without fusion and 9 of 13 had anterior apical growth arrest as a separate additional procedure . at 2-year follow-up , curve correction averaged 46 % . patients who had anterior apical growth arrest and ssi without fusion had less curve deterioration than those who had ssi alone . new methods are described for 1 ) measuring growth of the instrumented segment of the spine and 2 ) calculating the predicted growth of the instrumented segment . eight of the 13 had more than 50 % of predicted growth , three had 30-50 % of predicted growth , and two had less than 30 % of predicted growth . operative treatment has been successful in the short term in all but the most malignant form of infantile idiopathic scoliosis . 
an analysis of the effect of the zielke operation on s-shaped curves in idiopathic scoliosis . a follow-up study revealing some skeletal and soft tissue factors involved in curve progression . this article analyzes the fate of s-shaped idiopathic spinal curves during follow-up in 18 patients having the zielke vds operation . the spinal radiographs were evaluated by cobb angle , end-vertebra angles ( evas ) , vertebral rotation , and by a new method using the tilt of the surgically fused spinal block in the frontal plane . spinal growth was measured . using the conventional criterion for cobb angle progression , 83 % of the lower curves and 50 % of the upper curves progress . the use of evas shows that progression occurs mainly in the middle ( thoracolumbar ) segment of the spine . curve progression occurs in the frontal plane without any significant change in vertebral rotation . the progression of the upper curve cobb angle is not related to the progression of the cobb angle of the lower curve ; but it is related to 1 ) tilt of the spinal block , 2 ) growth of the spine below the block and 3 ) overall linear spinal growth ( t1-s1 ) . progression of the upper eva of the upper curve is associated with skeletal immaturity . the key features leading to curve progression after the zielke operation appear to be spinal asymmetry in the frontal plane , linear spinal growth , and concave lumbar muscle tether ( myostatic contracture ) . the surgical implications of the findings are outlined . 
effects of rib elongation on the spine . i. distortion of the vertebral alignment in the rabbit . elongation of one rib on the right side by 1 cm was achieved in two groups of adult rabbits of different age , by osteotomy and application of a metallic expander . the procedure resulted in immediate deviation of the spine in the frontal and sagittal planes , with moderate scoliosis , convex to the left , and a significant decrease in the normal cervicothoracic lordosis and thoracolumbar kyphosis . moreover , computed tomography ( ct ) scanning demonstrated rotation of vertebra about the longitudinal axis relative to the anterior midline of the body , and deviation of the spinous process toward the convex , left side , of the scoliotic deformity . rib hump developed on the right side -- that of the elongated rib . these changes , which occurred simultaneously in the three planes , were less pronounced in the group of older animals . two weeks after the operation , the distorted configuration of the spine remained unchanged . the observed changes in the alignment of the vertebrae -- changes that , except for their direction on the horizontal plane , resembled those associated with idiopathic scoliosis in man -- support the earlier proposed link between the early stage of development of this condition and asymmetry of rib growth . 
effects of rib elongation on the spine . ii . correction of scoliosis in the rabbit . three intercostal nerves on the right side of growing rabbits were resected partially . from 1 to 3 months later , moderate left-convex thoracic scoliosis with rotation of vertebrae had developed , and the sagittal curvatures of the spine had diminished . in one group of these animals , a mechanically produced increase of 1 cm in the length of one rib on the side of the convexity resulted in an immediate correction of the scoliotic deformity , an improvement that was still evident 3 weeks after the operation . in two other groups of rabbits , a further resection of three intercostal nerves , this time on the left convex side , 1 and 2 months after the first operation , resulted in regression of scoliosis or halted its progression . these results further support a new concept in which the precipitating factor in the development of scoliosis is ascribed to asymmetric longitudinal growth of the ribs . they also suggest that regulation of the rib length could be a promising approach to the effective correction of progressive scoliosis at an early stage in man . 
congenital craniofacial anomalies of ophthalmic importance . congenital craniofacial abnormalities frequently require ophthalmic evaluation and surgical management . called upon to perform as part of the craniofacial team managing the often severely deformed craniofacial patient , the ophthalmologist must bring a basic knowledge of craniofacial syndromes and developmental anatomy , as well as clinical acumen to help preserve or improve ocular and adnexal function . as an introduction to this area of ophthalmology , the clinical features , classification , appropriate facial embryology , assessment and surgical considerations of the various congenital craniofacial abnormalities are reviewed . the expanding availability of craniofacial surgeons and surgical teams along with improved surgical results will ultimately require an increasing involvement by many more ophthalmologists in the evaluation and management of these congenital abnormalities . 
hyperbaric oxygen therapy for necrotizing fasciitis reduces mortality and the need for debridements . twenty-nine patients with necrotizing fasciitis were treated from 1980 to 1988 . this study evaluates how the addition of hyperbaric oxygen ( hbo ) therapy to surgical treatment has affected mortality and the number of debridements required to achieve wound control in these patients . two groups of patients were viewed : group 1 ( n = 12 ) received surgical debridement and antibiotics only ; group 2 ( n = 17 ) received hbo ( 90 minutes at 2.5 atm , average 7.4 treatments ) in addition to surgery and antibiotics . both groups were similar in age , race , sex , wound bacteriology , and antimicrobial therapy . body surface area affected was similar , however , perineal involvement was more common in group 2 ( 53 % ) than in group 1 ( 12 % ) . the admitting conditions of patients in group 1 ( non-hbo ) were diabetic , 33 % ; white blood cell count more than 12,000 , 50 % ; and shock , 8 % . the admitting conditions of patients in group 2 ( hbo ) were diabetic , 47 % ; white blood cell count more than 12,000 , 59 % ; and shock , 29 % . although group 2 patients receiving hbo were more seriously ill on admission , mortality was significantly lower ( 23 % ) compared to group 1 ( 66 % ) ( p less than 0.02 ) . in addition , only 1.2 debridements per group 2 patient were required to achieve wound control versus 3.3 debridements per group 1 patient ( p less than 0.03 ) . the addition of hbo therapy to the surgical and antimicrobial treatment of necrotizing fasciitis significantly reduced mortality and wound morbidity ( number of debridements ) in this study , especially among nonclostridial infections . we conclude that hbo should be used routinely in the treatment of necrotizing fasciitis . 
estrogen prophylaxis . the u.s. preventive services task force . recommendation : although routine postmenopausal estrogen replacement is not recommended , estrogen therapy should be considered for asymptomatic women who are at increased risk for osteoporosis , who lack known contraindications and who have received adequate counseling about potential benefits and risks . 
nutritional rickets . nutritional rickets was diagnosed in 18 infants aged eight to 24 months . clinical features included progressive leg bowing , poor linear growth , a diet deficient in vitamin d , seizures , and abnormal serum calcium , phosphate and alkaline phosphatase levels . wrist radiographs and serum alkaline phosphatase levels were the most useful confirmatory tests . breast milk may not contain enough vitamin d to protect infants , particularly dark-skinned children and those living in cloudy , northern u.s. cities , from rickets after six months of age . as breast feeding becomes more widely practiced , care is required to ensure that infants at high risk for rickets receive appropriate vitamin d supplementation . 
mother-daughter pairs : spinal and femoral bone densities and dietary intakes . bone mineral density ( bmd ) of the lumbar spine ( l1-l4 ) and femur ( femoral neck , ward 's triangle , and trochanter ) was measured in 37 healthy , white mother-daughter pairs by dual-photon absorptiometry . mothers and daughters were aged 52 + / - 7 and 25 + / - 4 y ( mean + / - sd ) , respectively . three-day dietary intakes were evaluated . significant correlations between mother-daughter pairs for bmd of all lumbar and femoral areas [ except for l2 ( r = 0.26 , p = 0.054 ) ] indicated familial resemblances in bone mineralization . total calcium intake was significantly correlated with three bmd values for the daughters ( l2 , femoral neck , and trochanter ) but not for the mothers . when mothers were classified as pre - ( n = 20 ) or postmenopausal ( n = 17 ) , correlation coefficients for bmd were higher for premenopausal mothers and their daughters and lower for postmenopausal mothers and their daughters , except for the trochanter . the results suggest that the nature of inheritance of bone mass of women may have at least two components , one influencing the level of peak bone mass and one related to bone loss at menopause . 
temporary loss of limb function secondary to soft tissue calcification in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure . a case of unusually severe soft tissue calcification with temporary loss of limb function in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure ( arf ) is described . a large dose of intravenous ( iv ) calcium was administered early in the hospital course to treat hypocalcemia , and hemodialysis , when initiated , was with a 1.75-mmol / l calcium dialysate . this case illustrates the danger of administering calcium supplementation and raises questions about the use of normal to high dialysate calcium concentration in the early stages of rhabdomyolysis-induced oliguric arf . calcium supplementation should be reserved for patients with clear clinical signs of hypocalcemia and dialysate calcium should be adjusted to prevent excessive positive calcium balance . 
nucleus-driven multiple large-scale deletions of the human mitochondrial genome : a new autosomal dominant disease . we studied several affected and one nonaffected individuals belonging to three unrelated pedigrees . the pathological trait was an autosomal dominant mitochondrial myopathy due to large-scale multiple deletions of the mitochondrial genome . clinically , symptomatic patients had progressive external ophthalmoplegia , muscle weakness and wasting , sensorineural hypoacusia , and , in some cases , vestibular areflexia and tremor . the muscle biopsies of all patients examined showed ragged-red fibers , neurogenic changes , and a partially decreased histochemical reaction to cytochrome c oxidase . multiple mtdna heteroplasmy was detected in the patients by both southern blot analysis and pcr amplification , whereas the unaffected individual had the normal homoplasmic hybridization pattern . these findings confirm and add further details to the existence of a new human disease -- defined clinically as a mitochondrial myopathy , genetically as a mendelian autosomal dominant trait , and molecularly by the accumulation of multiple , large-scale deletions of the mitochondrial genome -- that is due to impaired nuclear control during mtdna replication . 
a controlled trial of intravenous immunoglobulin g in chronic fatigue syndrome purpose : currently , there is no established therapy for chronic fatigue syndrome ( cfs ) , a recently defined illness that has been associated with a variety of immunologic abnormalities . based on the hypothesis that a chronic viral infection or an immunoregulatory defect is involved in the pathogenesis of cfs , the therapeutic benefit of intravenous immunoglobulin g ( iv igg ) was evaluated in a group of patients with cfs . additionally , serum immunoglobulin concentrations and peripheral blood lymphocyte subset numbers were measured at the outset of the study , and the effect of iv igg therapy on igg subclass levels was determined . patients and methods : thirty patients with cfs were enrolled in a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of iv igg . the treatment regimen consisted of iv igg ( 1 g/kg ) or intravenous placebo ( 1 % albumin solution ) administered every 30 days for 6 months . participants completed a self-assessment form prior to each of the six treatments , which was used to measure severity of symptoms , functional status , and health perceptions . patients were also asked to report adverse experiences defined as worsening of symptoms occurring within 48 hours of each treatment . results : twenty-eight patients completed the trial . at baseline , all 28 patients complained of moderate to severe fatigue , and measures of social functioning and health perceptions showed marked impairment . low levels of igg1 were found in 12 ( 42.9 % ) , and 18 ( 64.3 % ) had low levels of igg3 . at the end of the study , no significant therapeutic benefit could be detected in terms of symptom amelioration or improvement in functional status , despite restoration of igg1 levels to a normal range . major adverse experiences were observed in 20 % of both the iv igg and placebo groups . conclusion : the results of this study indicate that iv igg is unlikely to be of clinical benefit in cfs . in addition to the ongoing need for placebo-controlled trials of candidate therapies for cfs , an expanded research effort is needed to define the etiology and pathogenesis of this disorder . 
a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of intravenous immunoglobulin therapy in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome purpose : the chronic fatigue syndrome ( cfs ) is characterized by profound fatigue , neuropsychiatric dysfunction , and frequent abnormalities in cell-mediated immunity . no effective therapy is known . patients and methods : forty-nine patients ( 40 with abnormal cell-mediated immunity ) participated in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial to determine the effectiveness of high-dose intravenously administered immunoglobulin g. the patients received three intravenous infusions of a placebo solution or immunoglobulin at a dose of 2 g/kg/month . assessment of the severity of symptoms and associated disability , both before and after treatment , was completed at detailed interviews by a physician and psychiatrist , who were unaware of the treatment status . in addition , any change in physical symptoms and functional capacity was recorded using visual analogue scales , while changes in psychologic morbidity were assessed using patient-rated indices of depression . cell-mediated immunity was evaluated by t-cell subset analysis , delayed-type hypersensitivity skin testing , and lymphocyte transformation with phytohemagglutinin . results : at the interview conducted by the physician 3 months after the final infusion , 10 of 23 ( 43 % ) immunoglobulin recipients and three of the 26 ( 12 % ) placebo recipients were assessed as having responded with a substantial reduction in their symptoms and recommencement of work , leisure , and social activities . the patients designated as having responded had improvement in physical , psychologic , and immunologic measures ( p less than 0.01 for each ) . conclusion : immunomodulatory treatment with immunoglobulin is effective in a significant number of patients with cfs , a finding that supports the concept that an immunologic disturbance may be important in the pathogenesis of this disorder . 
prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in elderly women . to better understand which women use estrogen replacement therapy , we examined the prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in 9704 nonblack women , age greater than or equal to 65 years , who participated in the multicenter prospective study of osteoporotic fractures . overall , 13.7 % of women reported current use of oral estrogen ; 10.9 % took estrogen alone and 2.8 % took estrogen opposed by progestin . four percent currently used parenteral estrogen compounds . current use declined sharply with age from 17 % at age 65 to 4 % at age greater than or equal to 85 . the primary determinant of estrogen replacement therapy was the type of menopause ; the odds of using estrogen replacement therapy in current users compared with never users were approximately five times higher in women with a surgical menopause . estrogen use was more common among women who had higher levels of education and were less obese . furthermore , estrogen replacement therapy users were more likely to drink alcohol and to participate in sports and recreation . a diagnosis of osteoporosis was the major determinant of continued estrogen use , but only 24 % of women with a diagnosis of osteoporosis used estrogen replacement therapy . we conclude that only a small proportion of elderly women in the united states use estrogen replacement therapy . selection factors for use of estrogen are evident and may introduce bias in studies of estrogen and disease . in consideration of the distribution of these selection factors , estrogen users will tend to be at lower risk of coronary disease and possibly breast cancer but at greater risk for hip fractures . 
orbital intramuscular schwannoma . in an 8-year-old girl with asymptomatic proptosis , computed tomographic scans showed a large medial orbital mass that contoured the globe anteriorly , bowed the optic nerve laterally , and extended posteriorly to the orbital apex . t1-weighted coronal magnetic resonance images showed the mass to be a diffusely enlarged medial rectus muscle . histopathologic examination of a medial rectus muscle biopsy specimen disclosed a multinodular , intramuscular schwannoma , separating and infiltrating normal skeletal muscle fibers . the intramuscular location and multinodular configuration of this tumor , together with its occurrence in a child , distinguish it from previous orbital schwannomas . 
pathogenesis of antigen-induced arthritis in mice deficient in neutrophil elastase and cathepsin g. the contribution of neutrophil-derived elastase and cathepsin g to joint pathology has been examined in immune arthritis in the mouse . neutrophils from beige mice are genetically deficient in lysosomal elastase and cathepsin g , but have normal levels of the acid hydrolases , beta-glucuronidase , and n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase . the development of antigen-induced arthritis in normal mice has been compared with that in beige mice . the pattern of synovitis ( both leukocyte accumulation and plasma leakage ) were indistinguishable in normal and beige mice . cartilage proteoglycan depletion was quantified by measuring the decrease in safranin o staining intensity , and this , too , was unaltered in mice lacking elastase and cathepsin g. these results suggest that neutrophil elastase and cathepsin g do not contribute to these aspects of joint pathology in antigen-induced arthritis in the mouse . 
attenuation of suxamethonium myalgias . effect of midazolam and vecuronium . we studied the incidence of fasciculations and postoperative myalgias in 100 female outpatients who had laparoscopy under thiopentone , n2o , isoflurane anaesthesia . four groups of 20 patients each were pretreated with saline ( group 1 ) , tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg ( group 2 ) , vecuronium 0.006 mg/kg ( group 3 ) , or midazolam 0.025 mg/kg ( group 4 ) , followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg/kg . group 5 received only vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg as relaxant ( no suxamethonium ) . fasciculations were graded , and postoperative myalgias rated on the first and third postoperative days . in groups 1-5 the incidence of fasciculations was 95 , 15 , 25 , 95 and 0 % ; the incidence of myalgias on the first day after operation was 70 , 45 , 65 , 75 and 60 % , and on the third day after operation 20 , 5 , 20 , 20 , and 5 % , respectively . we conclude that pretreatment with vecuronium , but not midazolam , decreases the incidence of fasciculations after suxamethonium ( p less than 0.05 ) and that in this patient population , postoperative myalgias appear to be unrelated to the use of suxamethonium . 
clinical presentation of suspected malignant hyperthermia during anaesthesia in 402 probands . as anaesthetists have become more aware of malignant hyperthermia the mortality rate has fallen , but concommitantly the number of dubious and aborted cases has increased . all probands who developed a suspected malignant hyperthermia reaction during anaesthesia and subsequently underwent muscle biopsy were classified according to the clinical presentation . a probability for malignant hyperthermia can be calculated , using the classification , for each type of clinical presentation ; this varied from 0.96 to 0.07 . certain clinical features were found to be of more value as predictors than others ; these included a high creative kinase and myoglobinuria . the accuracy of prediction depends on a clear contemporaneous description of the clinical events . 
erythromycin failure with subsequent pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis in a cat-bite victim . we report the case of a 75-year-old woman who developed pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis while being treated for a cat-bite wound infection with erythromycin . review of the literature revealed that erythromycin has poor in vitro activity against this bacterium and has been associated with serious clinical failures . we recommend that erythromycin not be prescribed for empiric therapy of established animal-bite infections . suggestions for optimal empiric therapy of animal-bite infections and the differential diagnosis of severe cat-bite-associated sepsis are discussed . 
gallium nitrate for advanced paget disease of bone : effectiveness and dose-response analysis . objective : to evaluate whether a brief course of treatment with gallium nitrate can reduce biochemical parameters of accelerated bone turnover in patients with advanced paget disease . design : unblinded trial , decreasing dose schedules of gallium nitrate . setting : university hospital with primary orthopedic and metabolic bone disease specialty . patients : ten patients with advanced paget disease who had previously received conventional therapy consisting of calcitonin , etidronate , or mithramycin . interventions : five patients were entered into each of three dose schedules : 2.5 mg/kg body weight per day by continuous intravenous infusion for 7 days ; 0.5 mg/kg per day for 14 days by subcutaneous injection ; and 0.25 mg/kg per day for 14 days by subcutaneous injection . several patients were treated with different dose schedules . patients were followed until relapse . results : fifteen courses of treatment were administered to ten patients . reductions in serum alkaline phosphatase and urinary hydroxyproline excretion were observed after treatment with each dose schedule . after treatment with high , intermediate , and low doses , the median maximum decreases in serum alkaline phosphatase activity were 49 % , 39 % , and 18 % , respectively . the median maximum decreases in urinary hydroxyproline excretion were 50 % , 52 % , and 16 % , respectively . the maximum decrease in urinary hydroxyproline excretion occurred within a median of 2 weeks from the start of treatment , whereas the maximum decrease in serum alkaline phosphatase activity occurred substantially later at a median of 6 weeks . all treatment schedules were well tolerated . response duration was highly variable ( range , 6 to 42 weeks ) . conclusions : short-term treatment with gallium nitrate can reduce biochemical parameters of disease activity in patients with advanced paget disease of bone . larger trials using low-dose intermittent treatment schedules are required to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of this therapy . 
arachnoid granulation cerebrospinal fluid otorrhea . a case report and review of the temporal bone ( tb ) collection in the department of otolaryngology at suny health science center in syracuse demonstrated the occurrence of arachnoid granulations ( ags ) in the posterior fossa surface of the tb and their role in cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) otorrhea . a large ag responsible for csf otorrhea in a 64-year-old man was excised with soft tissue repair of the dural defect . sixteen of 188 tbs ( 8.5 % ) in the collection contained 24 ags ranging in size from 0.07 to 80.65 mm3 . nine ags ( 37 % ) were small ( less than 1 mm3 ) and did not demonstrate enlargement . twelve ( 50 % ) were of intermediate size ( 2.50 to 9.32 mm3 ) , and three ( 13 % ) were large ( 49.82 to 80.65 mm3 ) . the intermediate and large ags were associated with bone erosion and a high incidence of communication with a pneumatized mastoid complex ( serous otitis media or meningitis ) . these findings suggest that ags of sufficient size to produce bone erosion are the primary responsible lesions in adult-onset spontaneous csf otorrhea . 
prediction of acute renal failure after birth asphyxia . twenty-one babies of 34-41 weeks ' gestational age with birth asphyxia ( 5 minute apgar score less than or equal to 5 or umbilical artery ph less than or equal to 7.2 ) were studied during the first two days of life to find out whether the urinary excretion of tubular markers of renal function is of value in the early diagnosis of acute renal failure . urinary retinol binding protein , myoglobin , and n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase ( nag ) , expressed as a ratio with urinary creatinine , were measured and excretion profiles repeated at 3-6 days in 15 infants and at 7-14 days in 11 infants . plasma creatinine concentration , creatinine clearance , plasma myoglobin concentration , and fractional sodium excretion were measured where possible in asphyxiated infants . control data were obtained from 50 healthy infants : 28 gave urine samples alone , 17 urine and blood , and five blood alone . normal urinary values were derived from 17 , 25 , and three infants , respectively , for the three time periods . the number of control samples was limited for ethical reasons . four asphyxiated infants had acute renal failure ( group 1 ) , four had tubular dysfunction without glomerular disturbance ( group 2 ) and 13 had normal renal function ( group 3 ) . group 1 were clearly identified by greatly increased urinary retinol binding protein ( greater than 27,000 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) and myoglobin ( greater than 1500 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) excretion measured in the first two days of life . in control infants the range of excretion of retinol binding protein within the same time period was 3 to 967 micrograms/mmol creatinine and urinary myoglobin was undetectable . excretion of nag failed to discriminate between groups 1 and 2 . 
spontaneous resolution of bone mineral depletion in preterm infants . fifteen preterm infants and 17 born at full term whose gestational ages ranged from 25 to 34 weeks and 38 to 42 weeks , respectively , were examined initially at postconceptional ages ranging from 38 to 44 weeks and subsequently at 46 to 71 weeks . each examination included measurement of bone mineral content of the mid-forearm by single photon absorptiometry . for the preterm group , the mean ( sd ) value of bone mineral content at the first examination was 109.0 ( 27.6 ) mg/cm and was significantly lower than the corresponding value of 194.4 ( 19.6 ) mg/cm for the whole full term group . the mean subsequent rate of mineral accretion in the preterm group was 8.70 ( 4.60 ) mg/cm/week , the mean individual duration of observation being 9.7 weeks . rate of mineral accretion for the full term group was independent of the duration of observation and averaged 1.60 ( 2.20 ) mg/cm/week . the difference between mean values of rate of mineral accretion in the preterm and full term groups was highly significant . our results show that there is a phase of rapid mineral accretion starting at 40 weeks ' postconception in preterm infants that substantially reduces the perinatal mineralisation deficit . 
outcome after acute osteomyelitis in preterm infants . eight cases of skeletal infection in preterm infants were studied . all the infants were systemically unwell , with polymorpholeucocytosis . diagnosis was by blood culture , and any radiographic changes were apparent at the time of presentation . infection was often multifocal , with sites around the knee being most commonly affected . staphylococcus aureus was the pathogen isolated in six of the eight cases ; in these treatment with fusidic acid was effective and well tolerated , even at doses that were less than the recommended therapeutic minimum . even with prompt diagnosis and aggressive treatment orthopaedic sequelae are common . 
pheochromocytoma presenting as rhabdomyolysis and acute myoglobinuric renal failure . we report the case of a previously healthy young woman who presented with the sudden onset of rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuric renal failure , requiring hemodialysis for 3 weeks . common causes of rhabdomyolysis were ruled out ; as renal function returned , severe hypertension was noted and a pheochromocytoma was diagnosed . we suggest that pheochromocytoma causes rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria via catecholamine-mediated vasoconstriction and skeletal muscle ischemia . 
the american college of rheumatology criteria for the classification and reporting of osteoarthritis of the hand . clinical criteria for the classification of symptomatic idiopathic ( primary ) osteoarthritis ( oa ) of the hands were developed from data collected in a multicenter study . patients with oa were compared with a group of patients who had hand symptoms from other causes , such as rheumatoid arthritis and the spondylarthropathies . variables from the medical history , physical examination , laboratory tests , and radiographs were analyzed . all patients had pain , aching , or stiffness in the hands . patients were classified as having clinical oa if on examination there was hard tissue enlargement involving at least 2 of 10 selected joints , swelling of fewer than 3 metacarpophalangeal joints , and hard tissue enlargement of at least 2 distal interphalangeal ( dip ) joints . if the patient had fewer than 2 enlarged dip joints , then deformity of at least 1 of the 10 selected joints was necessary in order to classify the symptoms as being due to oa . the 10 selected joints were the second and third dip , the second and third proximal interphalangeal , and the trapeziometacarpal ( base of the thumb ) joints of both hands . criteria derived using the " classification tree " method were 92 % sensitive and 98 % specific . the " traditional format " classification method required that at least 3 of these 4 criteria be present to classify a patient as having oa of the hand . the latter sensitivity was 94 % and the specificity was 87 % . radiography was of less value than clinical examination in the classification of symptomatic oa of the hands . 
type xi collagen-degrading activity in human osteoarthritic cartilage . homogenates of 6 samples of human osteoarthritic cartilage were shown to degrade exogenous type xi collagen . on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis , the cleavage products generated by each homogenate were similar , and they were identical to those obtained by cleavage of the substrate with purified gelatinase . enzyme activity , which was inhibited by edta , was greater in extracts of fibrillated osteoarthritic cartilage than in extracts of grossly normal cartilage from the same joint or in extracts of cartilage from joints with osteonecrosis . activation with apma enhanced digestion , but breakdown was apparent in extracts of fibrillated osteoarthritic cartilage even without apma . enzymatic degradation of type xi collagen could play a significant role in the turnover of articular cartilage in health and disease states . 
a subluxing arthropathy associated with the anti-jo-1 antibody in polymyositis/dermatomyositis . of 180 patients with polymyositis/dermatomyositis ( pm/dm ) seen at the university of pittsburgh and affiliated hospitals since 1975 , 21 of 100 tested positive for the anti-jo-1 antibody . sixteen of the 21 patients were women and 18 were white . fifteen had adult pm , 4 had myositis in overlap with scleroderma , and 2 had adult dm . evidence of interstitial lung disease was found in 12 of 18 anti-jo-1 positive patients ( 67 % ) , but in only 15 of 79 anti-jo-1 negative patients ( 19 % ) ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the 21 anti-jo-1 positive patients were divided into 3 separate groups based on the observed articular findings . four patients had a deforming , predominantly nonerosive arthropathy with subluxations of the distal interphalangeal joints , especially the thumbs . eight patients had a nondeforming arthropathy primarily affecting the small joints of the hands , wrists , shoulders , and knees . those with deformities had a longer duration of arthritis compared with those with nondeforming arthropathy ( mean 14.5 years versus 3.3 years ) . nine anti-jo-1 positive patients had no joint arthropathy . three of 4 patients with deformities have required articular reconstructive surgery for subluxation , with 2 having associated subcutaneous calcinosis . 
igg and iga antibodies to the collagen-like region of c1q in rheumatoid vasculitis . we investigated the presence of igg and iga antibodies to c1q in serum samples from 80 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , 31 patients with rheumatoid vasculitis , and 80 healthy controls . igg and iga antibodies to c1q , as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , were found in less than 5 % of the sera from ra patients and from healthy controls . in contrast , igg and iga antibodies to c1q were found in 29 % and 61 % , respectively , of the sera from patients with rheumatoid vasculitis . the occurrence of iga antibodies to c1q has not been previously demonstrated . these results also demonstrate that igg antibodies to c1q do not occur exclusively in systemic lupus erythematosus patients : sera of patients with rheumatoid vasculitis frequently contain igg or iga antibodies to c1q , which contribute to immune complex formation . 
interleukin-1-induced interleukin-6 is required for the inhibition of proteoglycan synthesis by interleukin-1 in human articular cartilage . cartilage from normal controls , patients with osteoarthritis , and patients with rheumatoid arthritis produced no interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) in culture . however , il-1 induced massive production of il-6 ( up to 135 ng/ml ) in cartilage from all 3 sources , in a dose-dependent manner ( in some cases , a peak value was reached ) . the levels of induced il-6 were similar to those found in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fluid . at il-1 concentrations that induced almost complete inhibition of proteoglycan ( pg ) synthesis , il-6 production could still be increased considerably . exogenous il-6 inhibited pg synthesis by up to 25 % . il-1-induced inhibition of pg synthesis was reversed by antibodies against recombinant human il-6 . these results suggest that il-6 is required for the il-1-induced inhibition of pg synthesis . 
treatment of psoriatic arthritis with oral 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 : a pilot study . we conducted a 6-month open-label trial in which 10 patients with active psoriatic arthritis received 2 micrograms of oral 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 daily . statistically significant improvement was noted in the tender joint count and physician global impression . of these 10 patients , 4 had substantial ( greater than or equal to 50 % ) improvement , and 3 had moderate ( greater than or equal to 25 % ) improvement in the tender joint count . two patients were unable to receive therapeutic doses because of hypercalciuria . high-dose vitamin d may be a useful therapeutic agent for psoriatic arthritis . 
nontropical pyomyositis as a cause of subacute , multifocal myalgia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we report a case of nontropical pyomyositis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and disseminated mycobacterium avium infection , in which severe myalgia was the presenting symptom over several weeks . multifocal muscle lesions were identified by gallium scanning and magnetic resonance imaging techniques . the epidemiology , possible pathogenesis , clinical features , diagnostic imaging , and therapy are reviewed . early suspicion of nontropical pyomyositis in severely immunocompromised patients with " cryptic " myalgia is recommended . 
outbreak of spontaneous staphylococcal arthritis and osteitis in mice . staphylococcus aureus is the most common bacterial species found in association with nongonococcal bacterial arthritis in humans . we present here the first description of spontaneous bacterial arthritis and osteitis in mice . clinically , the most obvious findings were swelling and/or ankylosis of hindpaws and nodose changes of the tail . the prevalence of arthritis and osteitis ranged from 0 % to greater than 50 % of the mice studied , depending on the mouse strain . the most prominent histopathologic feature of the arthritis was hypertrophy of the synovial tissue and destruction of cartilage and underlying bone . most of the s aureus-infected mice displayed an identical phage type , which was also the only s aureus phage type found in skin isolates from clinically healthy mice . however , a few s aureus isolates were not typeable , indicating that an additional strain ( s ) might cause bacterial arthritis in mice . 
quantitative gamma-ray computed tomography of the radius in normal subjects and osteoporotic patients . a new design of gamma-ray computed tomography ( ct ) scanner was used to measure bone density in 516 normal adults and in 116 female patients with osteoporotic fractures . trabecular bone density ( tbd ) was measured for a core of the ultradistal radius ; cortical bone mass per unit length ( mls ) and mass per unit volume ( mvs ) were computed for the radius shaft . tbd , mls and mvs peaked at the age of about 40 in females and fell by 32 % , 15 % and 24 % , respectively , by the age of 65 . in males , tbd decreased from the third decade and mls and mvs peaked in the fourth decade . the corresponding falls by 65 years were 20 % , 6 % and 7 % . in patients with colles ' fracture tbd and mls were reduced by 13 % and 10 % , respectively , relative to age matched normal female subjects . for patients with vertebral crush fracture the reductions relative to age matched normal females were 36 % , 17 % and 16 % for tbd , mls and mvs . in fracture patients the deficit in tbd was significantly greater than that for cortical bone but tbd was no better at discriminating normal and osteoporotic individuals because of its larger normal range . we conclude that gamma-ray ct may best be used for monitoring changes in bone rather than as a diagnostic screening tool . 
l-tryptophan implicated in human eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome causes fasciitis and perimyositis in the lewis rat . tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( l-trp-ems ) is a newly described syndrome which occurred in epidemic fashion in the united states in the summer and fall of 1989 . epidemiologic data has linked the syndrome to intake of l-tryptophan ( l-trp ) from one specific manufacturer , but the precise etiologic compound ( s ) must be established by replication of the syndrome in an appropriate animal model . in this study , implicated l-trp , united states pharmacopeia ( usp ) grade l-trp , or vehicle was administered by gavage in a blinded fashion for 38 d to female lewis rats at doses comparable with those ingested by patients who developed the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . animals receiving implicated l-trp , but not those receiving usp grade l-trp or vehicle , developed histologic signs consistent with fasciitis and perimyositis , specific pathologic features of human l-trp-ems . peripheral blood eosinophilia was not observed . hypothalamic corticotropin releasing hormone mrna levels were lower and plasma corticosterone levels tended to be lower in the animals that received implicated l-trp . plasma l-kynurenine was higher in both l-trp-treated groups compared to the vehicle-treated animals . the female lewis rat is known to be susceptible to a wide variety of inflammatory diseases . identification of specific inflammatory changes in this rat following exposure to implicated l-trp indicates that this animal model will be important in subsequent investigations into the etiology , pathogenesis , and treatment of human l-trp-ems . 
isolated congenital stapes ankylosis : surgical results in 32 ears and a review of the literature . isolated congenital stapes ankylosis is described in 32 operated ears from 28 patients . in 27 ears , a regular stapedectomy was performed . in the remaining 5 ears , 2 had stapes gushers , 2 had bony stapedial tendons , and 1 had an aberrant facial nerve crossing the oval window . the average individual hearing gain was 20 db . the mean hearing gain for the 24 successful stapedectomies was 29 db . in 24 of 32 ears ( 75 % ) , an essential hearing gain of at least 15 db fletcher 's index hearing threshold could be achieved . a fletcher 's index not exceeding 30 db could be achieved in 19 of 32 ears ( 60 % ) , in spite of several cases with a sensorineural component in the hearing loss . a review of the literature and overview of longer series with isolated congenital stapes ankylosis is presented . 
repetitive strain injuries . how to deal with ' the epidemic of the 1990s ' . occupational trends , especially the mushrooming of computer use in the united states , have brought with them a virtual epidemic of repetitive strain injury of the upper limb . what can you as a primary care physician do to stem the tide ? in this article , the authors fill you in on treatment of the most common injuries as well as remark on the ramifications for business and industry . 
hormone replacement therapy . how to select the best preparation and regimen . hormone replacement therapy is a mainstay of preventive healthcare for the maturing female population . estrogen deficiency that comes with menopause can have serious effects and is especially important in light of the increasing life expectancy of women . various estrogen and progesterone preparations are available , and their best application requires understanding of the different potencies and metabolic effects . daily maintenance therapy without a drug-free interval is becoming the standard method of the 1990s . no doubt the future will bring even better delivery regimens . 
calvarial sutural abnormalities : metopic synostosis and coronal deformation -- an anatomic , three-dimensional radiographic , and pathologic study . the purposes of this study were ( 1 ) to evaluate the histologic differences between synostotic versus deformational suture abnormalities and ( 2 ) to correlate these histologic findings with anatomic and three-dimensional computed tomographic ( ct ) scans . we examined three infants with premature metopic synostosis ; one infant also had microcephaly trisomy 13 and curious overriding of the coronal sutures . the three-dimensional ct scans demonstrated obliteration of the metopic suture inferiorly . histologic sections of this suture showed complete bony stenosis . the same pattern was found in all three infants , including the two infants with trigonocephaly who did not have trisomy 13 or microcephaly . in the trisomy 13 infant , the overlapped inferior coronal suture was obliterated on ct examination . however , histologic sections in this region showed a merging of bone ; there was no synostosis . in summary , three-dimensional ct re-formation correlated with metopic suture histology . " stenotic " fusion existed in all infants with trigonocephaly , those with normal and abnormal karyotypes , with and without microcephaly . however , three-dimensional ct re-formation of the trisomic infant showed opacification of the coronal suture in the areas of greatest overlap , whereas histology revealed a curious bone remodeling pattern , possibly a precursor to " deformational " craniosynostosis . 
the effect of early fronto-orbital advancement on frontal sinus development and forehead aesthetics . the frontal sinuses make an important contribution to normal forehead and glabellar contour . this study was designed to test our clinical impression that early fronto-orbital ( " frontal bone " ) advancement could have an adverse effect on frontal sinus development and consequently on forehead aesthetics . a retrospective study was conducted on 11 patients who had undergone fronto-orbital advancement and also had a long period of follow-up at the institute of reconstructive plastic surgery at new york university . the longitudinal cephalometric data were compared with unoperated controls . with one exception , no patient who underwent bilateral fronto-orbital advancement developed a frontal sinus , and all such patients had a flattened brow contour when compared with unoperated patients , of whom 82 percent developed at least one frontal sinus . of the three patients who underwent unilateral fronto-orbital advancement for plagiocephaly ( flattened forehead ) , two developed a frontal sinus but only on the unoperated side and one developed bilateral frontal sinuses . the two patients with unilateral frontal sinus development had a particularly obvious deformity resulting from normal glabellar projection on the unoperated side and a flattened contour on the operated side . fronto-orbital advancement affects forehead aesthetics and should be performed only in infant patients with moderate to severe deformities . patients with plagiocephaly whose deformity is sufficiently severe to warrant surgery should preferably undergo bilateral fronto-orbital advancement ( by the technique described ) rather than unilateral advancement in order to avoid the brow asymmetry that results from unilateral frontal sinus development . 
arthritis : roles of radiography and other imaging techniques in evaluation . imaging studies are performed on patients with arthritis for a variety of reasons : to determine whether an arthritic condition is present ; to establish the specific diagnosis ; to determine the extent of disease ; to assess the activity of disease ; to detect complications of disease ; to evaluate progression of disease ; to judge the efficacy of drug treatment ; to help in selection of surgical candidates ; to aid in the choice of surgical procedures ; to size , design , or fabricate prostheses ; and to identify complications of surgery . conventional radiography is still the mainstay of all examinations in arthritic patients . arthrography is best applied to evaluate complications of disease and of surgery , although it may be useful in disease detection and in determining the specific diagnosis . nuclear medicine studies are best used to identify complications of surgery and may also be useful to assess disease activity or extent . ultrasound is useful to detect dissecting synovial cysts and deep venous thrombosis . the most valuable role of computed tomography is in the design and fabrication of prostheses and in evaluating complex anatomy of involved joints . magnetic resonance imaging may be useful in early detection of articular cartilage damage and may assist in determination of the specific diagnosis ; enhancement with contrast material may aid in assessment of disease activity . 
association of vertebral end plate fracture with pediatric lumbar intervertebral disk herniation : value of ct and mr imaging . a retrospective review of the radiologic findings in 31 patients less than 21 years old who underwent laminotomy for lumbar disk herniation revealed six cases of associated avulsion fracture of the vertebral end plate , a prevalence of 19 % . all fractures were found in the 14-17-year-old subgroup ( six of 19 ) , a prevalence of 32 % . in four patients , plain radiographs did not reveal the fracture . computed tomographic ( ct ) findings were diagnostic in all six cases . magnetic resonance ( mr ) images , obtained in three patients , demonstrated the avulsed cortical fragment and what are assumed to be the attached sharpey fibers . on sagittal mr images , these structures had a configuration with the appearance of a " y " or " 7 " . four of these six patients underwent bilateral laminotomies . the need for more extensive surgical resection may not be apparent at plain radiography or myelography but can be predicted with ct and mr imaging . 
focal fibrocartilaginous dysplasia associated with tibia vara . focal fibrocartilaginous dysplasia of the tibia at the insertion of the pes anserinus ( the expanded tendinous insertion of the gracilis , sartorius , and semitendinous muscles ) is a rare unilateral lesion with a characteristic deformity of the proximal tibial metadiaphysis . it is associated with unilateral tibia vara in toddlers . three cases of this entity are described , and the radiologic features are presented . recognition of this disease is important because the response to conservative therapy is excellent . 
rotator cuff lesions : signal patterns at mr imaging . the signal intensity patterns of rotator cuff lesions at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging were evaluated in 80 patients who had surgical correlation and in 13 asymptomatic individuals ( 14 shoulders ) . six cadaver shoulders were examined with mr , and histologic correlation was obtained in four . all studies were performed at 1.5 t with a flexible circular surface coil . the accuracy of mr imaging in detection of full-thickness cuff tears ( 31 patients ) was 0.95 and of partial thickness tears ( 16 patients ) , 0.84 . the most common and accurate pattern for full-thickness cuff tears ( 22 of 31 tears ) was a region of intense signal seen on t2-weighted images . less often the torn region consisted of an extremely degenerated and attenuated tendon with moderate signal intensity or was obscured by low-signal-intensity scar . the intense signal pattern on t2-weighted images was also accurate , although a less common finding ( seven of 16 cases ) , in the diagnosis of partial tears . tendinitis was recognized as focal or diffuse regions of increased signal intensity or a nonhomogeneous pattern of increased signal often associated with tendinous enlargement . in some patients , manifestations of subacromial-subdeltoid bursitis was present . tendon degeneration was also manifested as regions of increased signal intensity . some similarity and overlap of signal patterns of partial interstitial tears , tendinitis , and tendon degeneration are observed . 
cystic rheumatoid arthritis : description of a nonerosive form . in a study of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , 9 % ( n = 70 ) were found to have a cystic form . at radiologic examination of these patients with cystic ra , the first abnormality seen consisted of periarticular intraosseous cysts without erosions . the cysts were distributed symmetrically , most often located at the proximal side of the joints and predominantly around the proximal interphalangeal , metacarpophalangeal , and wrist joints of the hands and the first interphalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints of the feet . computed tomographic scans showed the peripheral intraosseous location of the cysts . magnetic resonance images showed that the cysts may contain fluid , inflamed synovia , or both . cysts can be an important feature in the diagnosis of ra and a supplement to the criteria of the american rheumatism association . osteoporosis , joint-space narrowing , and joint destruction occurred less frequently in patients with cystic ra than in patients with classic ra . of the patients with cystic ra , 54 % were male , and 50 % were seronegative . this study is a supplement to and an enlargement on earlier descriptions of cyst predominance in ra . 
magnetic resonance imaging and the nonoperative treatment of spinal epidural abscess . this report describes three patients with spinal epidural abscess diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging and treated nonoperatively . prior to treatment , one patient was neurologically intact , one patient demonstrated a moderate neurological deficit , and one patient was severely paraparetic with loss of bladder and bowel control . following identification of the pathogenic organism , antibiotic therapy was continued until the patients demonstrated clinical improvement and radiological resolution of the abscess . all patients remained stable or improved neurologically . analysis of 33 previously reported patients treated with antibiotics suggests that nonoperative treatment may be a reasonable alternative therapy under certain clinical conditions . these include ( 1 ) identification of the pathogenic organism , ( 2 ) a stable neurological condition , ( 3 ) access to magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography for potentially rapid reevaluation , and ( 4 ) appropriate neurosurgical consultation and nursing care . nonoperative treatment may also be considered as a reasonable alternative for patients who have severe concurrent medical illness . 
flurbiprofen versus diclofenac for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee . seventy-four patients were enrolled in this double-blind , randomized single-center study to evaluate the therapeutic effectiveness of 50 mg tid regimens of flurbiprofen or diclofenac sodium in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee . by chance , the flurbiprofen patients had a significantly more advanced disease status at baseline than their diclofenac-treated counterparts . however , at subsequent follow-up evaluations , both treatment groups experienced a significant reduction in disease severity regardless of the baseline differences . no serious safety problems were associated with either investigational therapy . the frequency of reported medical events were distributed equally between the flurbiprofen and diclofenac groups . although the imbalance in disease severity between treatment groups made a rigorous statistical interpretation of the results very difficult , the data from this clinical trial tend to support the equiefficacy of 50 mg tid regimens of flurbiprofen versus diclofenac for treating osteoarthritis of the knee . 
lymphoma presenting as a periorbital tumor . lymphoma is a common tumor of the periorbital region . facial radiographs may show a soft tissue mass . radiologic differential diagnosis of orbital masses is difficult . computed tomographic scanning with intravenous contrast medium is useful in diagnosing and staging neoplasms in this area . 
determinants of vertebral mineral density in patients receiving long-term glucocorticoid therapy . this study addresses the impact of clinical and biochemical factors on the bone density of patients receiving glucocorticoid therapy . vertebral mineral density was measured by quantitative computed tomography in 35 patients aged 17 to 77 years who had received therapeutic glucocorticoid drugs for 0.1 to 22 years . the mean ( + / - sem ) vertebral mineral density z score in the subjects was -1.7 + / - 0.2 . z score was unrelated to underlying diagnosis , sex , or age but was significantly related to the duration of previous steroid therapy ( r = -.38 ) and to the total cumulative glucocorticoid dose ( r = -.50 ) . the rate of change of bone density in 16 of these subjects followed up over a period of 12 months was -8.9 % and was significantly greater in subjects taking more than 12.5 mg of prednisone per day . bone loss was not influenced by sex , age , duration of previous steroid treatment , or diagnosis and was not predictable from biochemical measures of calcium metabolism . 
muscle involvement in the scleroderma syndromes . muscle involvement was identified in 14 patients with scleroderma or a connective tissue disease overlap syndrome with predominant features of scleroderma . patients presented with symmetrical proximal weakness indistinguishable from other inflammatory myopathies . creatine kinase and electromyography were useful to demonstrate muscle involvement . muscle histopathology demonstrated primarily the vasculopathy of scleroderma or polymyositis in similar numbers of patients . scleroderma vasculopathy and polymyositis generally occur without specificity to diffuse scleroderma , the calcinosis , raynaud 's phenomenon , esophageal dysmotility , sclerodactyly , telangiectasia syndrome , or an overlap syndrome with arthritis . polymyositis also occurs when the vasculopathy of scleroderma involves other organ systems . 
the influence of renal function on diabetic foot ulceration . we examined the effect of renal function on the formation , severity , and outcome of diabetic foot lesions . information was collected from a retrospective hospital chart survey and analyzed by univariate and multivariate linear regression analysis . creatinine clearance , peripheral neuropathy , and peripheral vascular disease were all found to be independently associated with formation of foot lesions , indicating that each of these acts by distinct biologic mechanisms . renal function had no bearing on the severity of lesions or on their eventual healing . we conclude that foot ulcers are more likely to develop in diabetic patients who also suffer from renal impairment , but they are no less likely to heal than are those in patients with normal renal function . we further conclude that attempts to preserve functional limbs in these patients are justified . 
the distribution of muscle weakness in upper motoneuron lesions affecting the lower limb . to determine the distribution of weakness in the lower limb after upper motoneuron lesions the strength of 8 muscle groups was measured . four groups of patients were studied : 22 control subjects , 16 patients with unilateral leg paresis , 4 patients with severe unilateral paralysis and 5 patients with paraparesis . in the testing posture ( seated ) , patients with cerebral upper motoneuron lesions showed no selective loss of power in flexors or extensors on the contralateral side . gravitational torques were included in the measurements . however , proximal muscles ( acting at hip and knee ) were significantly less severely affected than more distal muscles ( acting at ankle and hallux ) . at any particular joint , physiological flexors and extensors were affected equally in both the hemiparetic and paraparetic subjects . as in the upper limb ( colebatch and gandevia , 1989 ) , the strength of muscles on the clinically unaffected side was reduced compared with control subjects , although no muscle groups were especially affected . 
capacitive coupling as an adjunctive treatment for avascular necrosis . the purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of capacitive coupling , a noninvasive method for applying electrical stimulation to biologic tissues , when used as an adjunct to decompression and grafting in the treatment of avascular necrosis ( avn ) of the femoral head . it also compared the results of core decompression and grafting with nonoperative management . forty patients with stages i-iii avn of the femoral head were treated with core decompression and grafting . all wore capacitive coupling units with electrodes placed over the femoral head continuously for six months . one-half of these units were active and one-half were inactive . patients were followed for two to four years . results were determined by preoperative and postoperative harris ratings , quantitative roentgenographic measurements , and the number of hips that required total hip arthroplasty ( tha ) . after all evaluations were completed , patients were divided into stimulated and nonstimulated groups . patients in both groups were similar regarding gender , etiology , and roentgenographic stage of involvement . results were also compared to 55 hips previously treated symptomatically , without surgery or electrical stimulation . there were no fractures , infections , or other significant complications in any of the hips operated on . hips treated with decompression and grafting , both with and without electrical stimulation , were more satisfactory than hips treated symptomatically in regard to roentgenographic progression and the need for tha . there was , however , no indication that the addition of capacitive coupling gave better results than decompression and grafting alone . 
tissue changes around loose prostheses . a canine model to investigate the effects of an antiinflammatory agent . the aseptically loosened prosthesis provided a means for investigating the in vivo and in vitro activity of the cells associated with the loosening process in seven dogs . the cells were isolated and maintained in culture for sufficient periods of time so that their biologic activity could be studied as well as the effect of different agents added to the cells in vivo or in vitro . the biologic response as determined by interleukin-1 and prostaglandin e2 activity paralleled the roentgenographic appearance of loosening and the technetium images and observations made at the time of revision surgery . the correlation between clinical , roentgenographic , histologic , and biochemical loosening indicates that the canine model is suitable for investigating the mechanisms of prosthetic failure . a canine model permits the study of possible nonsurgical therapeutic interventions with the ultimate hope of stopping or slowing the loosening process . 
cementless total joint arthroplasty prostheses with titanium-alloy articular surfaces . a human retrieval analysis . surgical implants of titanium alloy ( ti-6al-4v ) have been found to be susceptible to abrasive wear , resulting in the well-known phenomenon of metallosis . in the presence of the acrylic debris generated by loose joint arthroplasty prostheses , this abrasive wear is greatly increased . however , the bone loss seen in these cases has generally been presumed to be due to the osteolytic effects of particulate acrylic , not the alloy debris , which has generally been assumed to be biocompatible . to examine the in vivo effects of titanium-alloy wear without the added presence of acrylic debris , a comprehensive analysis was made of cementless human joint arthroplasty prostheses with ti-6al-4v alloy surfaces articulating on ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene ( uhmwpe ) . specimens , including the prostheses , synovium , pseudocapsule and additional soft tissues , and periarticular bone , were retrieved from 22 hips and two knees . specimens were examined by histologic techniques , energy-dispersive x-ray analysis , and electron microscopy . serial sections of the implants were evaluated for tissue ingrowth . tissues surrounding all joints implanted more than one year showed some degree of discoloration indicative of metallosis , whereas after two years the synovium was hypertrophic and villiform . histologic evaluation showed good fixation by bony ingrowth in the vast majority of cases , although location and extent of ingrowth was dependent on numerous factors . viability of ingrowth bone was established by fluorochrome labeling . however , despite good biologic fixation , cavitary osteolysis of the bone surrounding the implants was frequently identified . these lesions were filled with sheets of aggressive macrophages within a matrix of fibrous tissue and necrotic debris . under polarized light the macrophages were found to be filled with alloy and polyethylene fragments of a characteristic size . osteoblast-mediated remodeling of bone was infrequently observed . instead , the bone was resorbed along a front in contact with the granulomatous tissues filling the cystic lesions . visible burnishing was observed on every articular surface , with a linear relationship between wear and time implanted . by one year the surfaces were covered with a characteristic " scratch and gouge " pattern , similar on all sizes of femoral heads as well as the total knee prostheses . this study demonstrates that the combination of ti-6al-4v alloy and uhmwpe , when used as a bearing surface combination in total joint arthroplasty prostheses , results in excessive wear of both metal and polymer . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
making core decompression work . meaningful assessment of a treatment modality for osteonecrosis ( on ) must take into account a number of factors : ( 1 ) an accurate diagnosis , ( 2 ) consistent staging of the disease process , ( 3 ) understanding of the variability of the disease , ( 4 ) consistent application of the treatment modality ( or the surgical technique ) , and ( 5 ) a clear understanding of the goal of the treatment used . this article reviews the important steps of a diagnostic algorithm that has been used to accurately diagnose and stage the disease process of on . a consistent surgical technique with clearly defined goals is also outlined . the results of two clinical studies that were based on these diagnostic and therapeutic philosophies and that assess the role of core decompression in the treatment of on are reviewed . the first study compared core decompression to conservative management in a prospective randomized study of 55 hips . decompression provided more predictable pain relief and changed the indications for further surgical intervention more consistently than did conservative management . the second study represents a preliminary review of a ten-year study of the decompression procedure ; it showed that core decompression was particularly useful in stage i and stage ii on . roentgenographic stabilization was most predictable for stage i hips . core decompression can be a safe , effective , and predictable procedure in the treatment of stage i and stage ii on . 
the effect of stem stiffness on femoral bone resorption after canine porous-coated total hip arthroplasty . bilateral noncemented total hip arthroplasty ( tha ) was produced in dogs to determine the effect of stem stiffness on stress-related bone resorption . two porous-coated femoral implants of substantially different stiffnesses were designed for direct comparison . one was manufactured from cobalt-chromium ( cocr ) alloy , the other from titanium alloy . the titanium stem was hollowed out to a wall thickness of 1 mm to further reduce its stiffness . the cumulative stiffness differences were about 5.4-fold axially and 3.6-fold in bending and torsion . staged bilateral tha was performed on eight dogs . each dog received a stiff cocr stem on one side and a flexible titanium stem on the other . after death , the femora were removed and processed for undecalcified thin-section histology . bone ingrowth and remodeling were quantified by computer-aided image analysis and compared between stem designs . all femoral specimens showed bone ingrowth fixation of both stiff and flexible stems along the implant length . tetracycline labeling indicated active bone turnover in the femoral cortex and in regions of ingrowth . however , gross differences in femoral bone remodeling were observed both roentgenographically and histologically . femora with the flexible stems consistently showed much less bone resorption than those with the stiff stems . quantitative analysis of paired cross-sections indicated an average of 25 % -35 % more cortical bone area in the femora with flexible stems . severe resorption of the cortex in the midstem region occurred in three of the femora with the stiff stems but in none with the flexible stems . stem stiffness strongly influences bone remodeling . the flexible stem results in more uniform load transfer and less stress shielding . 
acetabular dysplasia in the adolescent and young adult . hip dysplasia is a major cause of osteoarthrosis in adults . early aggressive osteotomy has the potential of preventing the development of arthritis , but carries with it significant risks . the problem is further complicated because the surgeon has no means of quantifying the dysplastic deformity or of predicting what a particular combination of osteotomies would do to correct the deformity . this study describes methods of quantifying hip-joint geometry in three dimensions based on computed tomography and magnetic resonance studies , and of simulating pelvic osteotomy to correct the deformities . the study analyzes 49 normal hip joints and 20 dysplastic hip joints . the results show that the normal acetabulum is nearly a full hemisphere , which is anteverted 20 degrees and abducted 53 degrees . the normal lateral center-edge angle is 37 degrees . the dysplastic acetabulum is not anterolaterally maldirected , as has been assumed , but is globally dysplastic . analysis of the individual dysplastic hip joints showed a wide variability . some patients were deficient globally , some anterolaterally , and some posterolaterally . methods of analyzing a patient 's hip joint , quantifying abnormalities , simulating surgery , and predicting results are demonstrated in a case example . 
chylothorax after posterior spinal instrumentation and fusion . chylothorax occurred in a 16-year-old girl after posterior spinal fusion and instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis . nonoperative management , including chest tube drainage for 26 days and total parenteral nutrition , successfully treated this unusual complication after a posterior spinal fusion . 
newer concepts in antimicrobial therapy . advances in the treatment of infection have continued to increase both the length and quality of life . unfortunately , many bacteria can readily adapt to their environment and develop a tolerance to the antimicrobial agents in widespread use . during the recent past , the consumption of cephalosporins has increased so dramatically as to parallel the initial acceptance of penicillin . organisms that are resistant to the cephalosporins will no doubt continue to thrive , especially within the susceptible host . it is essential for the clinician to become familiar with the newest antimicrobial agents to more effectively treat modern infections . 
peroneal nerve palsy after total knee arthroplasty . the prognosis for peroneal palsy after total knee arthroplasty ( tka ) is poorly defined . twenty-six postoperative peroneal palsies occurred after 8998 tkas performed between 1972 and 1985 . eighteen patients had complete and eight had incomplete peroneal palsies . twenty-three had both motor and sensory deficits , and three had only motor deficits . at an average of 5.1 years ( range , one to 11 years ) after arthroplasty , recovery was complete for 13 palsies and partial for 12 . complete recovery was more likely in those palsies that were incomplete initially . patients with palsies that were initially partial had significantly higher knee scores than those with complete palsies , and patients whose eventual recovery was complete had significantly higher knee scores than those with incomplete recovery . this new prognostic information should be useful for surgeons who encounter this unfortunate yet persistent complication of tka . 
risk factors for the development of osteoarthrosis of the knee . the roles of physical activity ( both work and leisure time ) , obesity , and history of significant knee injury on the development of severe osteoarthrosis ( oa ) of the knee were evaluated . a case-control design compared 46 cases with a history of severe oa of the knee with 46 community controls matched for age and gender . data were gathered with a self-administered questionnaire . the oa cases were 3.5 times more likely than controls to have been obese at 20 years of age , two to three times more likely than controls to have performed heavy work , and almost five times more likely than controls to have had a significant knee injury . in contrast , leisure-time physical activity was not significantly different in cases compared with controls . obesity , significant knee injury , and long-term heavy physical activity are important risk factors for the development of oa of the knee . 
simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections . a simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections was done on 19 limbs with 84 % good results for healing . the first stage was the standard below-knee amputation with a long posterior flap in which the fascia and skin were closed in the central portion with the medial and lateral portions of the wound left open for drainage . the second stage was delayed until closure of the open wounds three to seven days after the first stage . wagner 's classification of diabetic foot lesions was used to stratify these cases . grades 3 and 4 foot infections had a uniformly good prognosis for healing with this surgical technique . grade 5 foot infections had a poor prognosis for healing , especially if associated with renal failure and dialysis , even with an initial guillotine amputation . 
bone fragility of the peripheral skeleton during fluoride therapy for osteoporosis . bone fragility during fluoride therapy for osteoporosis was observed in 24 ( 37.5 % ) of 64 patients treated with sodium fluoride , calcium , and vitamin d for 2.5 years who developed episodes of lower-limb pain during treatment . eighteen ( 28 % ) of these patients had clinical and roentgenographic features of 41 stress fractures and 12 new spinal fractures . there were 26 periarticular , six femoral neck , three pubic rami , three tibia and fibula , one greater trochanter , and two subtrochanteric fractures . vertebral fractures appeared first , then periarticular , then femoral neck , and lastly long-bone shaft fractures . all fractures were spontaneous in onset . the peripheral fracture rate during treatment was three times that in untreated osteoporosis . roentgenograms must be repeated at intervals of three to four weeks before the pathognomonic callus becomes visible , and the diagnosis can be made . trabecular stress fractures tend to occur in the first 18 months of treatment , and cortical stress fractures occur after 30 months of therapy . 
bipolar versus total hip arthroplasty for avascular necrosis of the femoral head . a comparison . in a relatively small series of cases the results of bipolar prostheses in avascular necrosis were inferior to those of total hip arthroplasty ( tha ) . femoral loosening rates were not reduced by using bipolar prostheses . tha produced more inferior results in avascular necrosis than in degenerative joint disease . early results of noncemented tha for avascular necrosis were good but also must withstand the test of time . a fixed noncemented acetabular component was preferable over a bipolar prosthesis for avascular necrosis of the femoral head . 
histologic , biochemical , and ion analysis of tissue and fluids retrieved during total hip arthroplasty . large amounts of metal and polyethylene debris and high ion readings are found in capsule and fibrous membranes of both loose titanium and cobalt-chromium stems . prostaglandin e2 , interleukin-1 , and collagenase levels are elevated when compared to control values with collagenase having the highest and most consistent elevations . synovial fluid and blood ion readings were elevated in loose cemented and cementless stems made from both materials . blood ion readings were not elevated in fixed stems . fixed stems had much less particulate debris in soft tissues . the data showed that failure of most metal hip stems was initially due to a mechanical cause , with high debris and ion counts occurring secondarily in capsule and fibrous membranes . particulate debris and high ion readings are primarily a focal problem contained by the periprosthetic fibrous connective-tissue encapsulation within the femoral canal and joint capsules . no systemic problems were manifest in any of the patients examined and followed in this study . 
perichondral grafting for cartilage lesions of the knee . twenty-five patients with 30 chondral lesions of the knee were treated with an autogenous strip of costal perichondrium . the graft was fixed to the subchondral bone with tissucol ( immuno , vienna ) , a human fibrin glue . the leg was then immobilised for two weeks followed by two weeks of continuous passive motion . weight-bearing was permitted after three months . the mean knee score ( ranawat , insall and shine 1976 ) changed from 73 before operation to 90 one year after ; in 14 patients evaluated after two years there was no decrease . in 28 cases the defect was completely filled with tissue resembling articular cartilage . we conclude that in most cases perichondral arthroplasty of cartilage defects of the knee gives excellent results . 
osteotomy for osteoarthritis of the hip . a survivorship analysis . we have reviewed 368 osteotomies carried out for osteoarthritis of the hip at the nuffield orthopaedic centre . survivorship analysis showed that 10 years after osteotomy 47 % had required no further surgery , and even after 20 years 23 % had still not had a hip replacement . hips with moderate arthritic change showed significantly better results than those with more severe degeneration . osteotomies with varus angulation as well as medial displacement showed longer survival . 
intra-osseous pressure and oxygen tension in avascular necrosis and osteoarthritis of the hip . the intra-osseous pressure , po2 , and pco2 were measured in 32 hips ( 21 patients ) which were painful but showed no severe degenerative changes . pre-operative scintigraphy and radiography was performed in all patients . thirteen hips showed early osteoarthritis , eight had early osteonecrosis , and 11 had no changes . core biopsies were performed and the bone was examined histologically and graded for necrosis . histologically , necrosis was present in 27 specimens . scintigraphic findings did not correlate with the histological results but were more closely related to the radiographic findings . the intra-osseous pressure in hips with histological necrosis ( mean 47 mmhg ) was significantly higher than in hips without necrosis ( mean 26 mmhg ) . the po2 was lower in bone with histological necrosis ( mean 44 mmhg ) than in bone without ( mean 71 mmhg ) . po2 increased and intra-osseous pressure decreased after decompression . the results confirm that ischaemia plays a central role in the development of necrotic changes in bone . histological necrosis was found in hips with radiographic signs of osteonecrosis and in those with osteoarthritis . radiography , and scintigraphy are shown to be insensitive methods for differentiating between those disorders . 
biomechanics of a double prosthetic ligament in the anterior cruciate deficient knee . we have assessed the biomechanical properties of a ' double-bundle ' prosthetic ligament replacing the anterior cruciate in cadaver knees . we compared the results with those of single bundle ' over-the-top ' and ' through-the-condyle ' techniques , performing anterior drawer tests at 20 degrees and 90 degrees knee flexion . the over-the-top reconstruction gave better anteroposterior stability at 20 degrees , while the through-the-condyle repair was more stable at 90 degrees . the double-bundle reconstruction gave practically normal anterior stability at both 20 degrees and 90 degrees . 
development of the hip in multiple epiphyseal dysplasia . natural history and susceptibility to premature osteoarthritis . we have determined the natural history of hip development in 42 patients with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ( med ) . premature osteoarthritis was a frequent outcome and was almost inevitable before the age of 30 years in those with incongruent hips . there were two types of immature hips : type i , the more severe form , had a fragmented and flattened ossific nucleus and acetabular dysplasia , was misshapen at skeletal maturity and osteoarthritic by 30 years of age ; the milder type ii hip had a small , rounded , uniformly ossified nucleus and a more normal acetabulum . type ii hips were well formed at maturity and were less prone to premature osteoarthritis . considerable variations were noted in the manifestations of med between families but not within families . the prognosis of a child 's hip could be predicted ; in sporadic cases from the type of immature hip , and in familial cases by also taking into account the outcome of affected relatives . 
failed acromioplasty for impingement syndrome . we evaluated 67 shoulders in 65 patients who had pain and dysfunction for more than two years after an initial acromioplasty for impingement syndrome without a rotator cuff tear . in addition to a thorough history , physical examination , local anaesthesia injection and any other necessary investigations all patients had arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder . in 27 shoulders there had been diagnostic errors , and in 28 operative errors ; only in 12 had the diagnosis and the operative procedure both been correct . subsequent operative intervention in patients not receiving worker 's compensation benefit had a 75 % success rate , whereas in those receiving such benefits the success rate was only 46 % . 
bone lysis in well-fixed cemented femoral components . we have reviewed 25 cases of focal femoral osteolysis in radiographically stable , cemented femoral implants . in three hips retrieved at post-mortem from two patients , we have been able to make a detailed biomechanical and histological analysis . the interval between arthroplasty and the appearance of focal osteolysis on clinical radiographs ranged from 40 to 168 months , and in over 70 % of the cases this did not appear until after five or more years . few had significant pain and there was no relation to age , sex or original diagnosis . the most common site for osteolysis were gruen zones 2 and 3 on the anteroposterior radiograph and zones 5 and 6 on the lateral radiograph . in 15 cases ( 60 % ) , the area of osteolysis corresponded to either a defect in the cement mantle or an area of very thin cement . the rate of progression of these lesions was variable , but to date only one has progressed to gross loosening of the femoral component . the back-scatter scanning electron microscopic examination of serial sections and biomechanical testing of the post-mortem specimens demonstrated focal cement fracture around implants that were otherwise rigidly fixed . in eight cases from which tissue was available , histology showed a histiocytic reaction with evidence of particulate polymethylmethacrylate . we consider that this local fragmentation was the stimulus for local osteolysis in an otherwise stable cemented femoral component . 
localised endosteal bone lysis in relation to the femoral components of cemented total hip arthroplasties . four cases are described of localised endosteal bone lysis in the femur occurring in association with cemented femoral components that were not obviously ' loose ' radiologically . in each , the area of lysis was shown at operation to be related directly to a region in which there was a local defect in the cement mantle surrounding the stem . via the space between the stem and cement , such defects provide a route through which the contents of the joint cavity may reach the endosteal surface of the femur , subsequently leading to localised bone lysis , and later to frank loosening . 
macrophages stimulate bone resorption when they phagocytose particles . we investigated in vitro a mechanism by which particulate debris may induce bone resorption and cause implant loosening . we first studied two standard particles : latex , which is considered to be inert , and zymosan , which is inflammatory . macrophages that phagocytosed either particle became activated , and stimulated 15 times as much bone resorption as did control macrophages . for activation to occur , 100 times more latex than zymosan had to be phagocytosed . we also found that bone cement and polyethylene particles activated macrophages in a similar manner , and that the necessary amounts of these were intermediate between those of latex and zymosan . none of the particles were toxic . it was concluded that implant loosening may result from bone resorption stimulated by mediators released by macrophages that have phagocytosed particles of bone cement or polyethylene . 
tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap in neck burn contracture . neck contracture after burn injury can result in severe functional as well as aesthetic deformities . contracture can recur even after wide and complete release and full-thickness skin grafting . recurrence is partly due to the inherent difficulties in both early postoperative immobilization and the required long-term splinting . when adjacent tissues are also burned , adequate local tissue for reconstruction may not be available ; therefore , free-tissue transfer may be necessary . the large surface area that is required after adequate release may be provided by tissue expansion before free-tissue transfer . in the case presented the use of tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap for the reconstruction of a recurrent neck contracture is described . 
hearing loss due to cranio-metaphysial dysplasia . craniometaphysial dysplasia is a rare cause of conductive hearing loss . it is a genetic disorder of bone due to decreased osteoclastic activity in the endosteal and periosteal regions of craniofacial and long bones . the characteristic temporal bone abnormalities are attic fixation , abnormally shaped ossicles and obliterated foramina ovale . computerised tomography is helpful in predicting operative findings ; surgery should be reserved for those with a severe hearing loss . 
magnetic and electrical stimulation of cervical motor roots : technique , site and mechanisms of excitation . cervical motor roots and the brachial plexus were excited transcutaneously with magnetic ( magstim ) and electrical stimulation ( elstim ) applied dorsally over the spine and over the supraclavicular fossa ( erb 's point ) . the compound muscle action potentials ( cmaps ) from the abductor digiti minimi ( adm ) and the biceps muscles ( biceps ) could be evoked with either stimulating technique in all 52 subjects tested . with magstim over the spinous process c7 , greater cmaps were obtained from adm ( p less than or equal to 0.0001 , paired t test ) and biceps ( p less than or equal to 0.005 ) when the inducing current in the coil as viewed from behind was clockwise for the right arm and vice versa . elstim with the cathode over c7/t1 and the anode directed cranially provided greater cmaps from the adm ( p less than or equal to 0.0001 ) and smaller cmaps from the biceps ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) than with the inverse polarity . magstim of the cervical roots provided cmaps which were smaller from adm ( p less than or equal to 0.0001 ) , and greater from biceps ( p less than or equal to 0.0001 ) , than elstim ( cathode c7/t1 ) , whereas latencies did not differ significantly ( p less than or equal to 0.3 ) . when comparing elstim and magstim applied over erb 's point , the former yielded greater cmaps and 0.5 ms longer latencies from both the adm and biceps ( p less than or equal to 0.001 ) . from these data and additional studies in four patients , including direct intraoperative root stimulation in one of them , it is concluded that elstim and magstim over the spine excite the motor roots at a similar site , that is , within a few cm outside the intervertebral foramina . 
rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure . the pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance . in both cases , the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and % vc was less than 30 % . remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night . the cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints . all the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died . appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis . 
sexually transmitted arthritis syndromes . sexually transmitted infections may provoke a wide variety of rheumatic lesions . disseminated n. gonorrhoeae infection leads to septic arthritis , which may be rapidly destructive but which responds promptly to appropriate antibiotic therapy . in contrast , both gonococcal and nongonococcal infections may lead to aseptic " reactive " arthritis or reiter 's syndrome . inheritance of hla b27 confers a relative risk of 30 to 50 times for the development of this condition . the demonstration of c. trachomatis antigen in joint material from a minority of patients suggests that direct interaction between microbial components and class i hla antigens in the joint may be central to the pathogenesis of this disease . arthralgia and arthritis occur in up to 50 % of individuals in the prodrome of hepatitis b infection . joint symptoms may be accompanied by urticarial or cutaneous vasculitic lesions , especially on the legs ; both features resolve with the onset of jaundice . hepatitis b infection is also a major cause of necrotizing vasculitis , which may or may not be associated with overt hepatitis . seronegative arthritis , including reiter 's syndrome , psoriatic arthritis , and undifferentiated arthritis , a sjogren 's - like syndrome , vasculitis , and myopathies have been described in association with hiv infection . it is clear that synovitis occurs in those patients despite the fact that hiv is present in immune cells within the joint during inflammatory arthritis and that both antigen presentation and lymphocyte responsiveness within the joint are impaired . nevertheless , synovitis may occur in the presence of marked cd4-positive lymphocyte depletion . rheumatic syndromes , including arthralgia , inflammatory arthritis , and neuropathic arthritis , may occur during any stage of congenital or acquired syphilis . syphilitic synovitis responds well to antibiotic therapy , but neuropathic lesions can not be treated effectively . septic arthritis has rarely been described as a complication of disseminated mycoplasma or urea-plasma infections , and joint lesions sometimes associated with erythema nodosum have also been reported in lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale . 
asymptomatic rhabdomyolysis of unknown etiology . a 7-year-old boy developed rhabdomyolysis with a peak creatine phosphokinase level of 261,400 iu/l after his appendectomy . these abnormalities occurred following a 2-3-day illness consisting of upper respiratory tract symptoms , fever , and abdominal pain mimicking acute appendicitis . at the time of operation , a normal appendix was removed , and mesenteric lymphadenitis was noted . the myoglobinuria and elevation of creatine phosphokinase were transient , and the patient remained asymptomatic . we review various causes of right lower quadrant pain and rhabdomyolysis and address the roles of malignant hyperthermia and infectious agents . the possible cause of the phenomena observed in this patient is discussed . 
epiretinal membrane contracture associated with macular prolapse . we treated two patients with annular epiretinal membranes that produced unusual macular morphologic characteristics . contracture of the membranes caused herniation of macular tissue through a hole in the center of the membrane . the membranes were removed surgically , and ultrastructural analysis disclosed cells with properties resembling myofibroblasts and apparent new vitreous collagen . contracture of the cellular components probably produced tangential traction on the retina , which caused prolapse of the retinal tissue through a central defect in the membrane . 
effects of 2 % lignocaine on somatosensory evoked potentials recorded in the extradural space . we have studied the effects of extradural administration of 2 % lignocaine at the l3-4 interspace on somatosensory evoked potentials recorded in the cervical extradural space before corrective surgery for idiopathic adolescent scoliosis . eight patients in whom the equivalent volume of 0.9 % sodium chloride solution was administered into the lumbar extradural space acted as a control group . lignocaine 2 % resulted in a decrease in overall amplitude , but its main effect was a significant decrease in the amplitude of the second and third peaks , suggesting an action on the dorsal columns of the spinal cord . a significant increase in latency was found in both the lignocaine and sodium chloride groups . we conclude that the use of extradural 2 % lignocaine in patients undergoing scoliosis surgery may interfere with the intraoperative monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials . 
the presence of autoantibody to recombinant lipocortin-i in patients with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis . corticosteroids may mediate some of their anti-inflammatory effects via induction of a specific 38 kda protein , lipocortin-i . anti-lipocortin-i antibodies ( ala ) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) in 23 patients with plaque-type psoriasis alone ( nap ) , in 21 patients with psoriasis and arthritis ( pa ) , and in 67 healthy controls . only two of 23 nap patients had elevated ala , whereas six of 21 pa patients had raised levels of ala ( p = 0.2 ) . sero-negative polyarthritis was the most common pattern of joint disease in those pa patients with elevated ala ( 4/6 ) . ala levels did not correlate with the extent or severity of cutaneous involvement , and are unlikely to be involved in the pathogenesis of cutaneous psoriasis . 
aerobic work capacity in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome objective -- to determine the aerobic work capacity of patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome and compare it with that of two control groups , and to assess the patients ' perception of their level of activity before and during illness . design -- a symptom limited exercise treadmill test with on line gas analysis and blood sampling was used . subjects were assessed by one investigator , who was blind to the group which they were in . setting -- department of medicine , royal victoria hospital , belfast . subjects -- 13 patients ( 10 women , three men ) who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome . two control groups of similar age , sex , and body weight : 13 normal subjects ( 10 women , three men ) and seven patients ( five women , two men ) with the irritable bowel syndrome . main outcome measures -- aerobic work capacity as assessed by several variables such as length of time on treadmill , heart rate , and biochemical measurements ; borg score ; and visual analogue scores of perceived level of physical activity . results -- the patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome had a reduced exercise capacity compared with that of the other subjects , spending a significantly shorter time on the treadmill . they had a significantly higher heart rate at submaximal levels of exertion and at stage iii exertion had significantly higher blood lactate concentrations . using a borg score , they showed a significantly altered perception of their degree of physical exertion with a mean score of 8.2 compared with 6.6 and 5.3 for the normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome respectively . using a visual analogue scale they indicated that they had a greater capacity for activity before illness than had the patients with the irritable bowel syndrome , but the scores were not significantly different between the two groups . both groups of patients indicated reduced activity at the time of testing . normal controls and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome aspired to a greater level of activity than their current level , but the patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome aspired to a level similar to that which they had had before their illness . conclusions -- patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome have reduced aerobic work capacity compared with normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome . they also have an altered perception of their degree of exertion and their premorbid level of physical activity . 
orbital compartment syndrome . direct measurement of orbital tissue pressure : 1 . technique . many disorders of the orbit produce an increase in intraorbital pressure , which may result in the development of an orbital compartment syndrome and visual loss . traditionally , orbital tension is assessed clinically by indirect means based on retrodisplacement of the globe . the authors describe their experience with the " slit-catheter " technique for direct tissue pressure measurement as applied to the orbit . the preliminary results indicate that normal orbital pressure ranges from 3.0 to 6.0 mm hg . in patients with graves ' orbitopathy the values ranged from 7.0 to 15.0 mm hg . the results suggest that the technique may have many exciting possibilities as a clinical research tool in orbital disease , and its use will result in better understanding of orbital compartment syndromes . 
effects of a multidisciplinary management program on neurologically impaired patients with dysphagia . dysphagia is a major problem in patients with neurologic disorders . aspiration pneumonia and impaired nutritional status are consequences of dysphagia that result in high morbidity and mortality rates . assessment and treatment of the dysphagic patient by a multidisciplinary team have been advocated but to date the effects of such an approach have not been demonstrated quantitatively . this prospective study was conducted to determine if a dysphagia program would improve patients ' caloric intake and body weight , decrease the instances of aspiration pneumonia , or improve patients ' feeding ability . patients were referred from a 26 bed neurology/neurosurgery unit . a time series design was utilized . the control group consisted of 15 patients ( mean age = 46.1 years ) , managed according to the existing ward routine . subsequently , nursing staff attended a dysphagia training program . following this , the treated group of 16 patients , ( mean age = 49.3 years ) was assessed by the dysphagia team , using bedside and videofluoroscopic examinations to determine the specific swallowing disorder . an individualized treatment program was designed for each patient . the groups were compared on the basis of deviation from their baseline weight , deviation from ideal energy intake , and the incidence of aspiration pneumonia . statistical analysis revealed that the groups were comparable in age , number of days on the study , and glasgow coma scale score ; and that a significant weight gain and increase in caloric intake occurred in the treated group . no incidence of aspiration pneumonia was reported in either group . we speculate that this may have been influenced by the meticulousness of the care delivered in an acute unit as well as greater attention to prevention given in both groups . 
the effects of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) and pth-related peptide on osteoclast resorption of bone slices in vitro : an analysis of pit size and the resorption focus . the mechanism whereby pth , a potent stimulator of bone resorption , may under certain circumstances exert anabolic effects on bone is not known , but it is possible that it involves reduction of the size of osteoclast resorption lacunae . we have therefore made a detailed in vitro study of the effects of pth and pth-related peptide ( pthrp ) on resorption by neonatal rat osteoclasts paying particular attention to the plan area of resorption pits . in order to distinguish between increased resorption at a particular site and increased numbers of sites , we have used an eyepiece graticule to define a focus of resorption , namely an area occupying 1/116th of the bone slice , which may contain either one or several pits . in addition we have studied the relationship between the number of pits in a resorption focus and the total area of bone resorbed at the focus . we found that pth and pthrp , at doses between 2 x 10 ( -10 ) m and 2 x 10 ( -8 ) m , while exerting significant stimulatory effects on bone resorption , caused a reduction in the median plan area of pits . an increase in the number of resorption foci was the primary stimulatory effect of pth and pthrp , occurring within 6 h in the case of pth . however , the plan area of bone resorbed at a focus showed no significant increase , despite an increase in the number of pits per focus , because as more pits were formed at a focus , the pits were smaller , thus partially dissipating the stimulatory effect of pth on resorption . these results are consistent with the activation of new remodeling sites by pth in vivo . furthermore , the formation of smaller pits under the resorptive influence of pth may , together with the maintenance of coupling between formation and resorption , play a role in the preservation of cancellous bone recorded in cases of primary hyperparathyroidism and the anabolic effect of exogenous pth . 
squamous cell carcinomas often produce more than a single bone resorption-stimulating factor : role of interleukin-1 alpha * . several cultured human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines ( scc-4 , scc-12b2 , scc-12f2 , ec-gi-10 , and ben ) and one normal keratinocyte line ( epy-1 ) were investigated for the production of bone resorption-stimulating activity ( brsa ) . conditioned medium ( cm ) from each of the six cell lines stimulated bone resorption in neonatal mouse calvariae in culture . the brsa of scc-12f2 and ec-gi-10 was inhibited completely by antibody to interleukin-1 alpha ( il-1 alpha ) , whereas the brsa in cm from the ben , scc-4 , scc-12b2 , and epy-1 cell lines was only partially inhibited by anti-il-1 alpha . addition of indomethacin to the calvarial cultures also partially inhibited the brsa from ec-gi-10 , scc-4 , scc-12b2 , and epy-1 cells ; the brsa from ben and scc-12f2 cells was inhibited completely by indomethacin . camp production by calvariae was determined after a 60-min incubation with cm . cm from ec-gi-10 , ben , scc-4 , and epy-1 stimulated camp production by bone . preincubation of cm from ben , ec-gi-10 , scc-4 , and epy-1 cells with two antisera against pth-related protein [ pthrp ; one specific for two pthrp - ( 1-141 ) , the other recognizing both pthrp - ( 1-40 ) and pthrp - ( 1-141 ) ] completely inhibited the camp-stimulating activity . using specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for il-1 alpha and il-1 beta , il-1 alpha was measured in cm of the scc-4 , scc-12b2 , scc-12f2 , and epy-1 cell lines . il-1 beta was undetectable ( less than 0.1 ng/ml ) in cm from all cell lines . our findings indicate that the brsa secreted by scc-12f2 cells can be accounted for largely or entirely by il-1 alpha , while the activity produced by scc-12b2 includes il-1 alpha and another unknown factor ( s ) . the brsa produced by ec-gi-10 , ben , scc-4 , and epy-1 cells includes both il-1 alpha and pthrp . we conclude that il-1 alpha may be a more prevalent and biologically significant component of the brsa produced by sccs than previously recognized . 
congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system : a new clinical classification . the numerous clinical presentations of congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system in children and the confusing terminology used to describe their pathologic diagnoses impede the physician 's understanding of the condition . the clinical classification based on the actual symptoms of the congenital problems we have presented here should help the physician identify the specific abnormality and a potential treatment . future research should concentrate on the specific causes and the treatment of these congenital abnormalities . 
biomechanics of mammalian terrestrial locomotion . mammalian skeletons experience peak locomotor stresses ( force per area ) that are 25 to 50 % of their failure strength , indicating a safety factor of between two and four . the mechanism by which animals achieve a constant safety factor varies depending on the size of the animal . over much of their size ( 0.1 to 300 kilograms ) , larger mammals maintain uniform skeletal stress primarily by having a more upright posture , which decreases mass-specific muscle force by increasing muscle mechanical advantage . at greater sizes , increased skeletal allometry and decreased locomotor performance likely maintain stresses constant . at smaller sizes , skeletal stiffness may be more critical than strength . the decrease in mass-specific muscle force in mammals weighing 0.1 to 300 kilogram indicates that peak muscle stresses are also constant and correlates with a decrease in mass-specific energy cost of locomotion . the consistent pattern of locomotor stresses developed in long bones at different speeds and gaits within a species may have important implications for how bones adaptively remodel to changes in stress . 
physician documentation of diabetes care : use of a diabetes flow sheet and patient education clinic . we assessed two interventions designed to improve the care of patients with diabetes mellitus by documenting the complications of their disease . these were a flow sheet , included with outpatient medical records , and a weekly patient education clinic , in which a nurse educator provided individualized instruction to patients with diabetes . physician compliance with recommendations of the national diabetes advisory board for diabetes care was measured before ( n = 45 ) and after ( n = 158 ) these interventions . the numbers of referrals to ophthalmologists increased from 22 % to 46 % , urinalyses increased from 58 % to 77 % , and lower extremity examinations increased from 36 % to 61 % . nutrition education documentation increased from 51 % to 69 % , and diabetes education documentation increased from 31 % to 61 % . these results suggest that a significant improvement in physicians ' documentation of care of patients with diabetes can be achieved by using a flow sheet and a diabetes patient education clinic . 
sternoclavicular septic arthritis due to haemophilus influenzae . we have reported a case of septic sternoclavicular arthritis illustrating a rare complication of infection with a relatively common pathogen , haemophilus influenze . early identification of the infecting organism and appropriate antibiotic therapy are essential to prevent further morbidity from the complications of this unusual pyoarthritis . 
eosinophilic granuloma of the cervical spine . a case report and review of the literature . this is a report of a case of eosinophilic granuloma involving the second cervical vertebra in a 33-year-old woman . there have been 32 case reports in the literature describing eosinophilic granuloma presenting as cervical spine disease . due to its intimate relation to the central nervous system , the opportunity for neurological sequelae and neurosurgical intervention is common in cervical eosinophilic granuloma . in this report a brief history of eosinophilic granuloma is reviewed and case histories from the literature with cervical spine involvement are summarized . the therapeutic options are described and a recommended protocol for management is outlined . 
avascular necrosis of bone : a common serious complication of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . purpose : to describe the incidence , presentation , clinical course , and management of avascular necrosis of bone following bone marrow transplantation , and to identify risk factors related to its development and outcome . patients and methods : all patients developing avascular necrosis after transplantation between march 1974 and may 1988 were identified by means of the minnesota bone marrow transplant database and hospital records and included in analysis . of 902 consecutive patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation , 28 developed avascular necrosis of bone . results : twenty-eight of 642 allogeneic transplant recipients ( 10.4 % by product limit estimate ) developed avascular necrosis compared to zero of 260 autologous transplant recipients . symptoms developed 1 to 62 months ( median 12 months ) after transplantation . in the 28 patients a total of 91 joints were affected ( mean 3.3 per patient , range one to eight joints ) . the hip joint was most often involved ( 64 % of patients ) , followed by knee ( 61 % ) , ankle ( 29 % ) , shoulder ( 21 % ) , and elbow ( 7 % ) . initial standard radiographs were negative in 13 patients , while in nine patients , technetium-99 scans and/or magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated changes of osteonecrosis before changes on routine radiographs . almost all patients had received steroid prophylaxis and therapy for graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) . we observed a significant correlation between the total cumulative dose of steroids and number of joints involved ( p less than 0.01 ) . a multivariate analysis ( allogeneic transplant patients only ) identified acute or chronic gvhd requiring steroid therapy ( p = 0.003 ) , and increasing age ( p = 0.002 ) as significant and independent risk factors . fourteen patients required surgery , including joint replacement in 11 patients . in six of six patients , hip core decompression failed to halt disease progression , and total hip arthroplasty was subsequently required . conclusion : avascular necrosis of bone is a frequent late complication of bone marrow transplantation , causing significant morbidity and often requiring surgery ; diagnosis using conventional imaging techniques may be difficult and treatment remains inadequate . 
reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament using allogeneic tendon . long-term followup . eighty-four patients who underwent acl reconstruction with fresh-frozen allogeneic tendon were reviewed and evaluated with subjective and functional rating scales , physical examinations , instrumented anterior drawer tests , isokinetic testing , and arthroscopy . the average followup was 57 months ( range , 36 to 90 months ) and the average age at operation was 22 years ( range , 16 to 37 years ) . the subjective and functional results were rated as excellent in 48 patients ( 57 % ) , good in 31 ( 37 % ) , and fair in 2 ( 2 % ) . three patients ( 3 % ) experienced a retear of the acl . physical examinations and instrumented anterior drawer tests showed that satisfactory anterior stability was restored in 88 % of the patients . isokinetic evaluations demonstrated that the extension torque of the involved knee recovered to a slightly lower level than that of the controls , although the flexion torque recovered to a level equivalent to that of the controls . arthroscopic evaluations revealed that the allografts were elaborately remodeled , viable , and taut . there was no sign of immunologic rejection at any time postoperatively . additional extraarticular procedures , consisting of both pes anserinus transfer on the medial side and iliotibial band reinforcement on the lateral side , had no effect on the results . 
shoulder arthroscopy : its role in evaluating shoulder disorders in the athlete . we retrospectively reviewed 100 initial shoulder arthroscopies from a general sports medicine orthopaedic practice to determine if arthroscopy is helpful diagnostically and to see if specific lesions correlate well with specific diagnoses . seventy-two percent of the patients in the review had glenoid labral tears . ninety-two percent of patients who had a diagnosis of either recurrent anterior dislocation or recurrent anterior subluxation demonstrated a tear of the anterior inferior margin of the glenoid labrum . sixty-eight percent of patients with a diagnosis of impingement demonstrated tears at the superior margin of the labrum . there was a significant difference between throwing and nonthrowing athletes . partial rotator cuff tears were noted in 18 patients , the majority occurring in throwing athletes . other abnormalities , such as degenerative joint changes and biceps tendon lesions , were also noted at the time of arthroscopy . a large number of glenoid labral tears found at the time of arthroscopy appeared to be associated with conditions other than instability , which may or may not affect the throwing athlete . there also appeared to be a high correlation between tears in the anterior inferior glenoid labrum and anterior instability . arthroscopy enabled us to identify other significant information about the status of the biceps tendon or the undersurface of the rotator cuff . these are areas in which problems might otherwise have been missed . degenerative changes of the articular surface , not apparent on plain radiographs , may also be better evaluated arthroscopically . 
incidence of cervical spinal stenosis in professional and rookie football players . sagittal canal/vertebral body ratios were measured on cervical spine lateral radiographs of 124 professional football players and 100 rookie football players . a total of 894 levels were measured in 224 players . thirty-two percent ( 40 ) of the 124 professional football players , and 34 % of the 100 rookies had a ratio of less than 0.80 at one or more levels from c3 to c6 . the 0.80 ratio has been considered indicative of cervical spinal stenosis . this is the first time that the incidence of spinal stenosis , as determined by torg 's ratio , has been demonstrated in a population of professional and rookie football players . because one-third of this population has cervical spinal stenosis as determined by the torg ratio , other factors should be considered in the evaluation of a player with a transient quadriplegic episode when making continued play decisions . 
peripheral neuropathy associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . in 1989 , the centers for disease control recognized the existence of an epidemic illness characterized by myalgia and eosinophilia in individuals taking preparations containing l-tryptophan . we evaluated 3 patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who presented with subacute progressive neuropathies . the neuropathies were predominantly motor and maximal in the lower extremities . two patients were confined to a wheelchair and one was ventilator-dependent and bedridden . sensory loss predominantly involved small fiber modalities . electrophysiological studies showed multifocal marked conduction slowing and conduction block indicating segmental demyelination , with associated axonal degeneration that was accentuated distally . examination of sural nerve biopsy specimens demonstrated axonal degeneration in all 3 patients and perivascular infiltrates in 2 . levels of quinolinic acid , a neurotoxic metabolite of l-tryptophan , were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid in the 2 patients in whom it was measured . the cause of the neuropathy is unknown but may include immune mechanisms or toxicity of eosinophils , l-tryptophan , its metabolic products , or contaminants within l-tryptophan preparations . 
human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - associated myopathy : immunocytochemical identification of an hiv antigen ( gp 41 ) in muscle macrophages . in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency disease syndrome ( aids ) and muscle weakness , a muscle biopsy specimen disclosed degeneration of muscle fibers , regeneration , and focal endomysial mononuclear inflammation . a conspicuous feature was the presence of perivascular macrophages within the endomysium that showed positive immunostaining for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) ( gp 41 ) antigen . hiv was not detected within myofibers . our findings suggest an important role for the hiv-infected macrophage in the pathogenesis of this myopathy . 
effect of a pulsing electromagnetic field on metabolically derived osteoporosis in rats : a pilot study . the literature suggests that a pulsating electromagnetic field ( pemf ) is effective against bone loss in disuse osteoporosis . this study was conducted to evaluate the effects of pemf on metabolically derived osteoporosis in rats . sixteen 5 month old female sprague-dawley rats were divided into three groups ( g-1 ,2,3 ) . g-1 was given a normal diet and no exposure to pemf ; g-2 ,3 were oophrectomized and fed a low calcium diet for 8 months ; and g-3 was also exposed for 24 hr/day to pemf generated by applying a 15 hz , 5.6 a peak to peak square wave to helmholtz coils ( 64 cm i.d. , 200 turns/coil ) . the rats were sacrificed at 4 , 6 , and 8 months . skeletal changes were analyzed by measurements of acid extracted bone calcium and bone mineral content ( bmc ) using single photon absorptiometry ( spa ) . although all animals started at approximately the same weight ( mean of 290.0 g ) , g-2 showed a more progressive increase . while the mean weight after 8 months in g-1 was 350.0 g , and 352.5 g for g-3 , that in g-2 was 400.0 g. the calcium content of the femur in g-2 and g-3 at 8 months was lower than that of g-1 , but there were no significant differences among the three groups . 
prerandomization : an alternative to classic randomization . the effects on recruitment in a controlled trial of arthroscopy for osteoarthrosis of the knee . possibly the greatest threat to the success of a randomized clinical trial is the inability to recruit an adequate number of subjects . concern that the randomized clinical trial will adversely affect the physician-patient relationship is the most common reason for physicians ' reluctance to enroll patients in such trials . we report a modification of a prerandomized design , first described by zelen , which was implemented in a randomized clinical trial of arthroscopy for patients who had osteoarthrosis of the knee . the method was associated with a sixfold increase in the rate of accrual of patients as compared with the use of a classic randomization trial . we propose the design as a potential solution to the problem of recruitment of subjects , particularly for clinical studies . 
open fractures of the tibia in children . forty-one children who had forty-two open fractures of the tibial metaphysis or diaphysis were studied retrospectively . twelve fractures were type i ; eighteen , type ii ; six , type iiia ; four , type iiib ; and two , type iiic , according to the classification of gustilo et al . all fractures were irrigated and debrided , and antibiotics were given for a minimum of forty-eight hours after the injury . twenty fractures were initially treated with external fixation and twenty-two , with immobilization in a plaster cast . three patients had an early infection of the wound , one of which was associated with osteomyelitis ; all were successfully treated . the average time to healing of the fracture was five months ( range , two to twenty-one months ) . the time to union was related to the severity of the soft-tissue injury , the pattern of the fracture , the amount of segmental bone loss , the occurrence of infection , and the use of external fixation . there were six delayed unions . four patients had an angular malunion of more than 10 degrees , which spontaneously corrected in three . one patient who had a proximal metaphyseal-diaphyseal segmental fracture had a progressive valgus deformity . four patients who had a severe fracture that was treated with external fixation had more than one centimeter of tibial over-growth . there were no amputations . the incidences of compartment syndrome , vascular injury , infection , and delayed union were similar to those reported for open tibial fractures in adults . 
total hip arthroplasty with cement . a long-term radiographic analysis in patients who are older than fifty and younger than fifty years . the long-term performance of a total of 712 charnley and sth prostheses was evaluated as a function of the patient 's age ( older than fifty years or younger than fifty years ) and of the underlying disease ( osteoarthrosis , rheumatoid arthritis , or avascular necrosis ) . in patients who were older than fifty years , there were lower incidences of continuous cement-bone radiolucency about the acetabular component ( p = 0.04 ) , wear of the polyethylene acetabular cup ( p = 0.03 ) , and resorption of the calcar ( p = 0.03 ) . however , larger percentages of younger patients had rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis . in the cohort of patients who had osteoarthrosis , the performance of the prosthesis did not differ significantly between older and younger patients ; therefore we attributed the differences that were observed to the disease -- that is , to rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis . 
hazards of internal fixation in the treatment of slipped capital femoral epiphysis . we reviewed the records of 202 patients ( 308 hips ) in whom a slipped capital femoral epiphysis had been fixed with pins or screws . a serious complication that was directly related to the use of internal fixation developed in eighty hips ( 26 per cent ) . the rate of complications in the 202 patients was 40 per cent . in thirty-six ( 18 per cent ) of the 202 patients , an additional procedure was done to correct a pin-related complication . forty-one hip joints had been penetrated by a pin . other complications included avascular necrosis ( fourteen hips ) , chondrolysis ( nine ) , fracture ( one ) , infection ( one ) , further slippage ( one ) , sciatic-nerve injury ( one ) , and breakage of a screw ( eight ) . ways of decreasing the incidence of complications of fixation were explored . 
osteoarthrosis and congenital dysplasia of the hip in family members of children who have congenital dysplasia of the hip [ published erratum appears in j bone joint surg [ am ] 1991 feb ; 73 ( 2 ) :293 ] four hundred and eight siblings , parents , and grandparents of seventy-eight children from the new england area who had congenital dysplasia of the hip were evaluated , by clinical examination and by measurements of the acetabulum on pelvic radiographs , for the signs and sequelae of congenital dysplasia of the hip . six siblings and four mothers ( representing seven of seventy-eight families ) had been diagnosed with congenital dysplasia of the hip during childhood . the other ninety-one siblings were asymptomatic and had no radiographic evidence of dysplasia of the hip . in the adults in these families , acetabular coverage ( as measured by the center-edge angle of wiberg ) was no different from that in the control subjects . there was no difference between the study group and the control subjects in the prevalence of osteoarthrosis of the hip or of osteoarthrosis that could be considered secondary to congenital dysplasia of the hip . the results indicate that children born to families that have a history of congenital dysplasia of the hip have a greater prevalence of this problem compared with the general population , but also that examinations of the hip in newborns are effective in detecting congenital dysplasia of the hip in such families . the greater prevalence of congenital disease of the hip among the siblings and mothers in these families is consistent with a multifactorial inheritance . the fact that acetabular development in the family members who did not have congenital dysplasia of the hip was no different from that in the control subjects suggests that acetabular dysplasia , rather than being an inherited abnormality , is secondary to subluxation or dislocation . 
failure of acetabular autogenous grafts in total hip arthroplasty . increasing incidence : a follow-up note . we reported previously on the application of an autogenous femoral-head graft to the acetabulum during total hip arthroplasty for compensation of marked osseous deficiency in patients who had arthritis secondary to severe congenital dysplasia or dislocation of the hip . an average of seven years postoperatively , the graft seemed to have been a successful adjunct to the arthroplasty . five years later , to assess our long-term results , we reviewed the findings in the same forty-six hips ( thirty-seven patients ) that we had studied previously . an average of 11.8 years after the total replacement and use of the autogenous femoral-head graft , nine hips ( 20 per cent ) needed a second operation because the acetabular fixation had failed . two had had a resection arthroplasty and seven , a complex revision . in one additional hip , a resection arthroplasty was done for infection that had developed after operative reattachment of the greater trochanter . in twelve of the remaining thirty-six hips , there was definite radiographic evidence of acetabular loosening . thus , the total incidence of loosening of the acetabular component was 46 per cent ( twenty-one hips ) . the average time from the index operation to the first definite radiographic evidence that the fixation had failed was 6.4 years ( range , 2.9 to 12.7 years ) . while we recognize that application of a bulk autogenous graft to the acetabulum is useful when the acetabular bone stock is extremely deficient , we no longer recommend the use of bulk corticocancellous autogenous grafts in other situations . 
the molecular basis of hereditary 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 resistant rickets in seven related families . hereditary 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 ] resistant rickets ( hvdrr ) is an autosomal recessive disease caused by target organ resistance to the action of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 , the active form of the hormone . the defect in target cells is heterogenous and commonly appears to be a mutation in the gene encoding the vitamin d receptor ( vdr ) . we have studied cultured skin fibroblasts and epstein-barr virus transformed lymphoblasts of seven family branches of an extended kindred having eight children affected with hvdrr . we have previously shown that cells from three affected children in this group contain an " ochre " nonsense mutation coding for a premature stop codon in exon 7 within the steroid-binding domain of the vdr gene . in the current studies , we found that cells from affected children failed to bind [ 3h ] 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 and had undetectable levels of vdr as determined by immunoblots using an anti-vdr monoclonal antibody . measurement of vdr mrna by hybridization to a human vdr cdna probe showed undetectable or decreased abundance of steady-state vdr mrna . parents , expected to be obligate heterozygotes , showed approximately half the normal levels of [ 3h ] 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 binding , vdr protein , and mrna . the mutation at nucleotide 970 ( counting from the mrna cap site ) results in the conversion of gtac to gtaa , which eliminates an rsa i restriction enzyme site and facilitates identification of the mutation . we found that polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) amplification of exons 7 and 8 from family members and subsequent rsa i digestion allows detection of the specific genotype of the individuals . when rsa i digests of pcr-amplified dna are subjected to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis , children with hvdrr exhibit a homozygous banding pattern with loss of an rsa i site . parents exhibit a heterozygotic dna pattern with detection of both normal and mutant alleles . in summary , our data show that the genetic abnormality is a point mutation within the steroid-binding domain of the vdr in all seven related families with hvdrr . analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphism at the 970 locus of pcr-amplified dna fragments can be used to diagnose this mutation in both affected children and parents carrying the disease . 
serum uric acid correlates in elderly men and women with special reference to body composition and dietary intake ( dutch nutrition surveillance system ) . in 460 apparently healthy dutch elderly , aged 65-79 years , serum uric acid correlates were studied by linear regression analyses , for men and women separately . diuretic therapy , total serum cholesterol ( women only ) and creatinine clearance ( in bivariate analysis only ) were significantly associated with serum uric acid level . positive associations of serum uric acid with body weight , body mass index , body fatness ( men ) and lean body mass ( men ) were observed , with and without adjustment for diuretic therapy , creatinine clearance and age . serum uric acid levels , whether adjusted or not for these variables and for body mass index , were positively associated with alcohol intake ( men ) and consumption of meat and fish ( women ) , and inversely with consumption of bread , margarine and milk products ( women ) . these results indicate that limited medication with diuretics , weight control and restriction of alcohol use may help to prevent hyperuricemia in the elderly . 
examination by logistic regression modelling of the variables which increase the relative risk of elderly women falling compared to elderly men . in a community based , prospective study to determine risk factors for falls , 465 women and 296 men 70 years and over were followed for 1 year and 507 falls were documented . a greater proportion of women ( 32.7 % ) than men ( 23.0 % ) experienced at least one fall in which there was no or minimal external contribution . using unconditional logistic regression models we investigated the effect of physical and sociological variables on the sex difference in fall rate . controlling for the variables age , use of psychotropic drugs , inability to rise from a chair without using arms , going outdoors less than daily and living alone decreased the relative risk of women falling compared to men from 2.02 ( 95 % ci , 1.40-2 .92 ) to 1.55 ( 95 % ci 1.04-2 .31 ) . some of the increased risk of falling associated with being a women was able to be explained and is potentially correctable . but even after controlling for the physical and social variables which we had assessed , women compared to men still had a significantly increased relative risk of falling . 
joint inflammation provoked by a local synovial allergic reaction . homocytotropic antibody was stimulated in animals by administering protein antigens in a vaccine with b. pertussis adjuvant . the titers of the allergic antibody responses were judged by passive cutaneous anaphylaxis reactions . sera or globulin fractions containing high titers of antibody activity were injected into the knee joints of experimental animals . after sufficient delay for unfixed proteins to be cleared from the knee joints , animals were challenged intravenously with the corresponding antigen . the resultant local reaction of swelling and warmth ( passive synovial anaphylaxis ) was judged visually and by scanning procedures . histological studies showed evidence of mast cell degranulation concurrent with synovial reaction . 
adherent synovial cells from nonrheumatoid arthritis do not release interleukin 1 beta and prostaglandin e2 spontaneously in longterm culture . adherent synovial cells from both 13 patients without rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) ( gout , osteoarthritis and meniscal lesion ) and 8 patients with ra consisted of dendritic cells , macrophage-like cells and fibroblast-like cells after cloning in a similar fashion as reported in our previous paper . all the adherent synovial cells from patients without ra did not release interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) beta and prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) spontaneously , while those cells released comparable amounts of il-1 beta , but not pge2 to ra cells after type ii collagen stimulation . only the synovial cells from ra , irrespective of morphology and cloning , released il-1 beta and pge2 without stimulation . nonrheumatoid synovial cells may differ functionally from ra cells . 
incidence of polymyositis-dermatomyositis : a 20-year study of hospital diagnosed cases in allegheny county , pa 1963-1982 . the incidence of hospital diagnosed polymyositis-dermatomyositis ( pm-dm ) among residents of pittsburgh and allegheny county , pa was determined from 1963 to 1982 . medical records of all allegheny county hospitals were searched for patients diagnosed pm-dm , and each accepted case was reviewed and verified by a physician , according to specified criteria . direct age adjusted incidence rates were computed for race and sex , as new cases/million population/year , with the 1970 allegheny county population as the standard . one hundred seventy-seven cases were identified during this 20-year survey for a total annual incidence of 5.5 / million population . incidence more than tripled during 1973-1982 compared to the first decade of study , with the greatest increase occurring in black women . overall , the female to male incidence ratio was 2.2:1 , but during the childbearing years ( ages 15-44 ) this ratio increased to greater than 5:1 in both races . detection of pm-dm is increasing , as shown by temporal trends . although our series has significantly more adult pm and less dm and overlap cases than other published studies , annual incidence is similar to that reported in other locales . 
prevention of a false diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis by synovial lymphocyte responses . three cases are reported in which a diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis might have been made erroneously from the history , but the enteric origin of the reactive arthritis was evident from synovial lymphocyte responses . the importance of making the correct diagnosis and the avoidance of unwarranted spousal dysharmony is stressed . 
restricted dose and duration of corticosteroid treatment in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and temporal arteritis . to analyze whether corticosteroids in low doses during limited time periods could be safely used in the treatment of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica ( pmr ) or temporal arteritis ( ta ) the records of 91 patients diagnosed between 1980 and 1987 were reviewed . the mean initial prednisolone dose was in patients with pmr 18 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment was 17 months . in patients with ta the mean initial dose was 31 mg/day and the mean duration of treatment 16 months , and in all the corticosteroid treatment was terminated within 24 months . patients with coexisting ta and pmr demanded longer treatment compared to patients with either ta or pmr and thus 18/91 patients were treated for more than 2 years . no visual or neurological complications occurred after treatment with corticosteroids had been initiated . our study indicates that most patients with pmr or ta can be treated safely with an initial prednisolone dose of 10 mg given twice daily . with few exceptions corticosteroid treatment can be terminated within 24 months . 
pyogenic sacroiliitis in a rural population . we describe 10 cases of pyogenic sacroiliitis occurring in a rural population . seven were male and 3 were female with a mean age of 22.4 years . none was a recent intravenous drug abuser . five patients had a history of recent pelvic trauma . 99mtechnetium scintiscans revealed increased sacroiliac ( si ) joint uptake in 8 of 8 cases . blood cultures were positive in 60 % of patients . staphylococcus aureus was isolated in 7 cases from blood and/or si aspirates and hemophilus influenzae type b in one case . nine of 10 patients recovered completely . one underwent arthrodesis for recurrent si pain without evidence of relapse of infection . median followup was 18 months . 
synthesis and release of phospholipase a2 by unstimulated human articular chondrocytes . high activity of proinflammatory , type ii phospholipase a2 ( pla2 ) was found in synovial fluids ( sf ) in inflammatory arthritis . in search for the sources of this pla2 , we cultured human articular chondrocytes and cartilage explants from healthy , osteoarthritic and rheumatoid joints . all cultures , unstimulated by cytokines , released pla2 extracellularly . cultures obtained from the deep layers of the cartilage released more pla2 than those obtained from the superficial layers . deep layer explants released 0.38 to 18.16 pmol/min/mg protein pla2/day , whereas superficial layer explants released 0.39-3 .18 pmol/min/mg / day . chondrocyte cell cultures continuously released pla2 , in the first day 909-46347 pmol/min / ( 10 ) 6 cells and after 9-26 days of culture 166-2115 pmol/min/10 ( 6 ) cells . pla2 released from chondrocytes was calcium dependent and had optimum activity at ph 7.5 . cycloheximide markedly inhibited its release . chondrocyte cultures also released muramidase ( lzm ) but there was no correlation between pla2 and lzm release . it may be concluded that cytokine unstimulated human articular chondrocytes synthesize and release pla2 extracellularly which is similar to that found in the sf . thus , chondrocytes may possibly serve as one of the sources of intraarticular pla2 . 
sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis : two cases with differing dermatologic syndromes . sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis is a rare rheumatic condition characterized by ossification and erosion of the clavicle and the first rib , that has been shown to be associated with pustular skin lesions . we present 2 cases , one of which had features of pustulosis palmaris et plantaris and the other dissecting cellulitis of the scalp . although the dermatologic manifestations differ , both cases have rheumatologic and roentgenographic features diagnostic of sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis . 
yersinia enterocolitica tenosynovitis . the first case . we describe a case of tenosynovitis of tibialis posterior due to yersinia enterocolitica occurring after injury by a plant thorn in a 55-year-old man . the illness was chronic with 2 recurrences in spite of antibiotic treatment . full recovery was obtained only after surgical intervention . our patient 's chronic course was fostered by the persistence of thorn fragments in the infected area and the exceptionally pathogenic character of the isolated colony of yersinia . 
septic streptococcus milleri spondylodiscitis . we describe 2 patients presenting lumbar spondylitis due to streptococcus milleri . in both cases origin was related to preexistent intestinal pathology . surgical drainage of a collection of pus was necessary in one case . longterm antibiotic therapy led to full recovery . despite confused nomenclature streptococcus milleri must be considered a serious pathogen mainly associated with purulent infection with osteoarticular affinity . 
