renal replacement treatment for diabetic patients in newcastle upon tyne and the northern region , 1964-88 . objectives -- to review the experience of renal replacement treatment in diabetic patients treated in newcastle upon tyne and the northern region from 1964 to 1988 , and to compare the morbidity and mortality of diabetic patients treated with dialysis or transplantation with those of matched controls of non-diabetic patients . design -- retrospective study of clinical case notes . setting -- renal units of the northern region , particularly that in newcastle upon tyne . patients -- all 65 diabetic patients treated by renal replacement treatment in newcastle upon tyne from 1964 to 1987 ; 42 diabetic patients were matched with 42 non-diabetic patients according to age , sex , year of starting treatment , and type of treatment ( dialysis or transplantation ) . main outcome measures -- sex , age , renal biopsy findings , blood pressure , history of diabetic treatment , and plasma creatinine concentration at the start of renal replacement treatment . history of renal replacement treatments , suitability for transplantation , history of transplantation , cumulative survival , and cause of death during follow up . survival of technique , cumulative survival of the first peritoneal catheter and history of peritonitis in patients treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ; source of graft , histocompatibility antigens , duration of associated stay in hospital , and graft survival in patients receiving renal or pancreatic transplant . results -- 1259 patients with chronic renal failure were accepted for renal replacement treatment in newcastle upon tyne , of whom 65 ( 5 % ) had diabetes . the first was accepted in 1974 , and between 1974 and 1980 another 15 were treated ( mean age 42 years ; 4 % of new patients ) . from 1981 to 1987 , 49 diabetic patients ( mean age 44 ; 9 % of new patients ) were treated . fifty patients ( 77 % ) had insulin dependent diabetes and the remaining 15 ( 23 % ) non-insulin dependent diabetes . on average , the patients were aged 25 ( range 5-57 ) when diabetes was first diagnosed and 44 ( range 24-70 ) at the start of renal replacement treatment . the mean age at the start of treatment was 40 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes and 58 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes . transplantation was performed in 33 of the diabetic patients , whose mean age was lower than that of those who did not receive a transplant ( 41 v 48 respectively , p less than 0.05 ) . comparison between the 42 diabetic patients and matched controls showed that the overall survival at five years was 46 % and 77 % respectively . the three year survival of the diabetic patients who did not receive a transplant was poor ( 41 % v 79 % respectively ) . of patients transplanted , survival at five years was 73 % in the diabetic patients and 90 % in the controls . however , there was no significant difference in the five year graft survival ( 64 % v 46 % respectively ) . conclusions -- diabetes adversely affects morbidity and mortality in patients having renal replacement treatment , but renal transplantation seems to be the best option for treating diabetic patients with end stage renal failure . 
outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus . objective -- to compare the outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus and in non-diabetic patients with end stage renal failure . design -- retrospective comparison of cases and matched controls . setting -- renal unit , western infirmary , glasgow , providing both dialysis and renal transplantation . patients -- 82 diabetic patients starting renal replacement treatment between 1979 and 1988 , compared with 82 matched non-diabetic controls with renal failure and 39 different matched controls undergoing renal transplantation . main outcome measures -- patient characteristics , history of smoking , prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy and myocardial ischaemia at start of renal replacement treatment ; survival of patients with renal replacement treatment and of patients and allografts with renal transplantation . results -- the overall survival of the diabetic patients during the treatment was 83 % , 59 % , and 50 % at one , three , and five years . survival was significantly poorer in the diabetic patients than the controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . particularly adverse features for outcome at the start of treatment were increasing age ( p less than 0.01 ) and current cigarette smoking ( relative risk ( 95 % confidence interval ) 2.28 ( 0.93 to 4.84 ) , p less than 0.05 ) . deaths were mainly from cardiac and vascular causes . the incidence of peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis was the same in diabetic patients and controls ( 49 % in each group remained free of peritonitis after one year ) , and the survival of renal allografts was not significantly worse in diabetic patients ( p less than 0.5 ) . conclusions -- renal replacement treatment may give good results in diabetic patients , although the outlook remains less favourable than for non-diabetic patients because of coexistent , progressive vascular disease , which is more severe in older patients . 
flow cytometric dna analysis of parathyroid tumors . implication of aneuploidy for pathologic and biologic classification . the previous cytometric studies on parathyroid tumors have provided conflicting data regarding the relationship between dna content and histopathology , resulting from differences in technical methods and data analysis . this study measured nuclear dna of parathyroid tumors by flow cytometry in fresh material and determined whether dna aneuploidy really assists in making a pathologic diagnosis of carcinoma or not . from may 1987 through april 1989 , 65 consecutive patients operated on for primary hyperparathyroidism had dna analysis of the freshly excised parathyroid tumors . three of the patients had metastatic lesions of parathyroid carcinoma in the lung , cervical lymph nodes , and lung and mediastinal lymph nodes , respectively . pathologic classifications of the lesions from the other 62 patients were 54 adenomas , four carcinomas , and four hyperplasias . in all the latter patients , hyperplasia was associated with a multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome . unequivocal evidence of aneuploidy was found in all of the metastatic lesions and 60 % of the primary lesions of the carcinomas , in 9 % of the adenomas and in 50 % of the hyperplasias . therefore , parathyroid carcinomas were more apt to be aneuploid than were adenomas ( p = 0.0015 , both-sided testing ) . in each of the cases of aneuploid hyperplasia , a small aneuploid peak was found . the high incidence of aneuploidy in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 may indicate the presence of clonal heterogeneity of hyperplastic glands and the presence of an abnormal subset of cells that have malignant potential . cell distribution analysis did not provide any significant information beyond ploidy level . in conclusion , dna flow cytometric analysis of dna ploidy patterns is a valuable adjunct to the histopathologic diagnosis of parathyroid neoplasms . 
the diabetic foot . soft tissue and bone infection . diabetic patients , as a consequence of various neurologic , vascular , and metabolic perturbations , are at high risk for developing infections of the soft tissue and bones of the feet . the microbial etiology of soft tissue in infections is best determined by cultures of a tissue curetting or aspiration , rather than a swab . aerobic gram-positive cocci are the major pathogens in diabetic foot infections ; these may be the sole isolate ( s ) in acute uncomplicated infections , but they are usually accompanied by aerobic gram-negative bacilli or anaerobes in chronic or previously treated infections . carefully selected patients with mild infections can be treated as outpatients with oral antibiotics , but others require hospitalization and broad-spectrum parenteral antibiotics . bone infections are frequently diagnosed on the basis of roentgenographs and nuclear medicine scans , but these methods are often inaccurate , and bone cultures should be obtained whenever possible . 
surgical treatment of thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas . thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas have been diagnosed more frequently as radiographic techniques and biochemical assays have improved ; however , they remain uncommon and are unfamiliar to most neurosurgeons . this report concerns eight patients with hyperthyroidism , inappropriately elevated levels of serum thyrotropin and alpha-subunit , and radiographic evidence of pituitary tumor . all underwent surgery and had pathological confirmation of a thyrotropin-secreting adenoma , and most had been subjected to prior ablation of the thyroid gland . only one tumor was a microadenoma ; the others ranged in size from 1.4 to 12 cm , and invasion of parasellar structures was common . thyrotropin , triiodothyronine , thyroxine , and alpha-subunit were measured preoperatively and at intervals postoperatively . coexistent hormonal abnormalities ( which occurred in all patients ) included acromegaly and hyperprolactinemia and were also monitored . all four patients who had tumors less than 2 cm in diameter remain alive . complete extirpation of tumor in these patients produced rapid correction of all hormonal abnormalities and resolution of clinical hyperthyroidism . the other four patients had larger invasive tumors : two died soon after surgery , one died of disseminated tumor 8 years after presentation , and one remains alive with residual tumor . tumors secreting thyroid-stimulating hormone are less easily cured by surgery than are other types of pituitary adenoma because of the large size and invasive features that many attain during the delay to diagnosis ; medical therapy can subdue the tumor but not cure it . the experience with these patients establishes the importance of early diagnosis and surgical excision for successful treatment , and demonstrates the utility of modern diagnostic techniques for finding these lesions . as occurs in nelson 's syndrome after adrenalectomy for cushing 's disease , ablation of the target organ may allow the tumor to convert to a more clinically malignant form which is resistant to cure . 
clonal origin of pituitary adenomas . benign pituitary adenomas are among the most common neurosurgical tumors and account for a diversity of clinical syndromes due to their hormone content and release . to determine whether these tumors arise from a single cell or multiple cells , the authors studied x chromosome inactivation in deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) isolated from pituitary adenomas in women . tumors of three different hormonal subtypes were examined . one tumor contained cells immunoreactive for prolactin and human growth hormone ; one tumor contained foci immunoreactive for the beta-subunits of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone ; and the third tumor had no immunoreactive prolactin , human growth hormone , beta-subunits of thyroid-stimulating hormone , luteinizing hormone , or follicle-stimulating hormone , or the alpha-subunit . analysis of the dna revealed that , in each of the three pituitary tumors , one x chromosome was active in all cells and one x chromosome was inactive , indicating that each of these tumors was monoclonal in origin . it is concluded that clinically evident pituitary tumors arise from a genetic mutation in a single cell . 
trigger finger in young patients with insulin dependent diabetes . two-hundred-and-fifty patients with juvenile diabetes mellitus aged 3-38 years , were examined for trigger finger . thirteen patients ( 5 % ) were found to have trigger finger -- 10 women and 3 men aged 14-38 years ( mean 26 years ) . the ring , middle fingers , and thumb were the most affected . two patients had bilateral trigger finger . there was a significant correlation between duration of diabetes and trigger finger ( p less than 0.001 ) but no correlation with the control of diabetes . our work indicates for the first time the prevalence of trigger finger in young patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus . 
new active analogues of vitamin d with low calcemic activity . in conclusion , a number vitamin d analogues have been developed that have very low calcemic activity but retain several other properties of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 , including the ability to differentiate leukemia and skin cells , to enhance the immune response , and to suppress parathyroid hormone levels . although the mechanism of this selective activity is not yet clear , these analogues may provide new insights into the differences in action of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 in various target tissues . most importantly , the selective action of these analogues may be exploited for the treatment of diseases such as leukemia , psoriasis and hyperparathyroidism . 
parathyroidectomy in chronic renal failure : indications , surgical approach and the use of calcitriol . the appropriate use of phosphate binders , calcium supplements and especially calcitriol therapy has significantly decreased the incidence of overt secondary hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients . nevertheless some patients may still need parathyroidectomy , especially in the event of severe clinical signs and symptoms such as persistent hypercalcemia , pruritus , calcifilaxis , or extensive extra-skeletal calcification . since aluminum-induced bone disease may resemble hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients , whenever parathyroidectomy is contemplated the diagnosis of secondary hyperparathyroidism must be firmly established . thus , a bone biopsy is mandatory prior to parathyroidectomy . it is our experience that once the patient goes to surgery the most important factor in the surgical approach is the presence of a skilled surgeon who has extensive experience in parathyroid gland surgery . the data comparing subtotal parathyroidectomy with total parathyroidectomy and autotransplantation are similar . the most important shortcoming is the lack of long-term follow-up . recently , new data by several investigators has been advanced reintroducing total parathyroidectomy . long-term observations in patients who despite total parathyroidectomy still have normal pth levels are of special interest . in addition , long-term follow-up of these patients has shown that normal plasma calcium and phosphorus levels may be maintained without the use of vitamin d ; this occurred in the presence of active mineralization . however , our major objection to this procedure is the risk of aluminum-induced bone disease . at the present time we feel that the relative high incidence of recurrent hyperparathyroidism following subtotal parathyroidectomy is a reasonable trade off for the risk of aluminum bone disease which may develop in absence of pth . 
plasma prorenin activity and complications in children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus background . renin , secreted into the blood by the juxtaglomerular cells of the kidneys , is derived from a larger precursor , prorenin . plasma prorenin activity is increased in patients with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus who have microvascular complications of their disease . we undertook this study to determine prospectively whether rising prorenin activity can predict the development of complications in young patients with type i diabetes . methods and results . plasma prorenin was measured in 135 children and adolescents with type i diabetes . the mean ( + / - se ) plasma prorenin activity among the 32 patients over the age of 10 years who had had uncomplicated diabetes for 0.1 to 5 years was 8.43 + / - 0.58 ng of angiotensin i per liter.second , as compared with 7.06 + / - 0.32 in 37 control subjects of the same age ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the 9 patients older than 10 who had retinopathy or overt albuminuria , the mean plasma prorenin activity was 13.09 + / - 1.43 ng of angiotensin i per liter.second ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in 34 patients 10 years old or older with uncomplicated diabetes , 3 to 13 measurements of plasma prorenin activity were taken during a follow-up period of 6 to 39 months . urinary albumin was determined at each visit , and the patients had regular retinal examinations . only 1 of the 20 patients who had consistently normal plasma prorenin values had overt albuminuria ( ratio of urinary albumin to creatinine , greater than 0.017 ) or retinopathy , whereas one or both of these complications appeared in 8 of the 14 who had at least one high prorenin value . the plasma prorenin value was significantly higher in these eight patients at least 18 months before a complication was found . conclusions . increased plasma prorenin activity identifies a group of young patients with diabetes who are at high risk for retinopathy or nephropathy . 
receptor autoimmunity in endocrine disorders . the discovery in 1956 of the long-acting thyroid stimulator of graves ' disease , now known as thyroid-stimulating antibodies , was seminal . a new mechanism for disease was revealed that appears applicable to virtually all endocrine systems , involving the growth as well as the function of endocrine cells . an endocrine gland may fail through at least three autoimmune mechanisms : destruction , atrophy , and inhibition of function . destruction is probably irreversible but is not usually distinguishable clinically from receptor blockade causing atrophy or from metabolic unresponsiveness . the contribution made by receptor autoimmunity to endocrine diseases other than thyroid disease is at present unclear , but with immunologic manipulation it is potentially reversible , improving the replicative capacity of the gland , its metabolic responsiveness , or both . 
estrogen deficiency in adolescents and young adults : impact on bone mineral content and effects of estrogen replacement therapy . because the long-term effects of estrogen replacement in adolescents with ovarian failure and hypothalamic amenorrhea have not been previously studied , we conducted a 2-year study of 35 patients to determine factors contributing to baseline bone density measures ( bone density , bone mineral content , and bone width ) and the response to estrogen therapy . estrogen-deficient patients were often profoundly osteopenic by single-photon absorptiometry of the radius and dual-photon absorptiometry of the spine , despite estrogen replacement . variables that were significant predictors of better initial single-photon absorptiometry measurements included increased age , increased body mass index , spontaneous pubertal development , lack of radiation therapy , and lower serum osteocalcin . patients treated with estrogen/progestin had stable cortical bone mineral content and bone density at the distal one-third of the radius , a slight improvement in bone density at the distal one-tenth of the radius , and on encouraging , but marginal , improvement in the z score ( standard deviation from the mean ) of bone mineral content at the distal one-tenth . the z scores for cortical bone width and bone density decreased , suggesting a possible relative worsening over time . in untreated estrogen-deficient girls , bone mineral content and bone density decreased ( but not significantly ) ; the z score of cortical bone width showed a significant decrease . using dual-photon absorptiometry , a history of radiation therapy was found to be a predictor of lower bone density compared with age-matched controls . estrogen progestin therapy did not result in changes in serum levels of lipids and antithrombin iii , weight , or blood pressure . 
correlation between first - and early third-trimester glucose screening test results . one hundred twenty-four normal gravidas had paired first - and early third-trimester ( 26-32 weeks ) 1-hour oral glucose screening tests performed . first-trimester oral glucose screening test values correlated significantly with third-trimester glucose screening test results for the entire population , for whites and non-whites , and for normal-weight and obese patients . first-trimester oral glucose screening test values at or below 110 mg/dl were seldom associated with third-trimester oral glucose screening test results at or above 135 mg/dl and were not associated with abnormal 3-hour glucose tolerance test ( gtt ) results . nine of the gravidas ( 7.3 % ) were diagnosed with gestational diabetes mellitus during the third trimester , all of whom had first-trimester glucose screening test results above 110 mg/dl . the difference in incidence of gestational diabetes mellitus between gravidas having first-trimester glucose screening test results at or below 110 mg/dl ( 0 % ) and those having values above 110 mg/dl ( 16.4 % ) was highly significant ( p less than .0001 ) . for patients with first-trimester glucose screening test values at or below 110 mg/dl , third-trimester glucose screening may be unnecessary . in contrast , for gravidas having first-trimester glucose screening test results at or above 135 mg/dl , there is a high positive predictive value for elevated repeat glucose screening test results during the early third trimester . patients having elevated first-trimester glucose screening values at or above 140 mg/dl are at particularly high risk for elevated glucose screening test results later in pregnancy and should forego repeat 1-hour third-trimester glucose screening in favor of a direct third-trimester 3-hour gtt . 
fructosamine compared with a glucose load as a screening test for gestational diabetes . five hundred seven women were screened for gestational diabetes between 20-36 weeks ' gestation . all received a 100-g glucose ( polycose ) load at 28 weeks with measurement of plasma glucose 1 hour later . fructosamine levels were measured at 4-week intervals from 20-36 weeks . at 36 weeks , a full 100-g 3-hour glucose tolerance test was performed on all subjects . eighteen women were diagnosed as having gestational diabetes . the glucose load had a sensitivity of 81 % in detection of gestational diabetes , compared with 50 % for fructosamine at 36 weeks . fructosamine is not useful as a screening test for gestational diabetes as currently defined . 
hyperthecosis of the ovaries in a woman with a placental site trophoblastic tumor . rapidly increasing testosterone levels were observed in a patient presenting with sudden onset of virilization . exploratory laparotomy revealed a placental site trophoblastic tumor in the uterus . wedge biopsies of the ovaries showed extensive luteinization of the ovarian stroma in both ovaries . concentrations of testosterone , dihydrotestosterone , and androstenedione were markedly increased in the ovarian vein serum , indicating ovaries as the source of these steroids . the serum concentration of hcg was 69 miu/ml . pulsatile secretion of lh persisted in spite of elevated hcg levels . follicle-stimulating hormone levels were low or undetectable . elevated hcg levels and low fsh levels resulted in a hormonal environment similar to that seen in polycystic ovary disease ( high lh to fsh ratio ) , resulting in extensive stromal luteinization . decline in hcg levels after removal of the tumor resulted in the return of androgen levels to normal . 
diabetes insipidus associated with craniopharyngioma in pregnancy . a case is presented of a pregnancy complicated by a suprasellar mass diagnosed at 27 weeks ' gestation . this patient developed diabetes insipidus , which was successfully treated with 1-desamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin . thyrotropin-releasing hormone and acth stimulation tests were also abnormal , requiring the institution of thyroid and cortisol replacement therapy . the patient was delivered at 34 weeks ' gestation secondary to worsening visual field testing . a craniotomy was performed in the postpartum period with removal of a craniopharyngioma . with successful medical treatment and careful observation , surgical intervention may be postponed until postpartum or until a gestational age with lower neonatal morbidity and mortality is reached . 
progression of diabetic autonomic neuropathy over a decade in insulin-dependent diabetics . the prognosis for diabetics with autonomic neuropathy is little known . we therefore studied the progress of young insulin-dependent diabetics , first identified as having abnormal autonomic function 10-15 years ago . we have shown that the mortality of diabetics with symptomatic autonomic neuropathy is increased , but is less than previously reported . mortality in asymptomatic diabetics with an isolated abnormality in autonomic function tests is not increased . the heart rate variability declines at 1.02 + / - 0.47 ( sd ) per annum in diabetics with an initially normal heart rate variability . while symptoms of autonomic neuropathy do not usually remit even over a decade , they do not commonly progress . three groups of young insulin-dependent diabetics had heart rate variability tested between 1972 and 1977 and have been reviewed 10-15 years later . group a ( n = 49 ) had symptomatic autonomic neuropathy and an abnormal heart rate variability ( less than 12 ) , group b ( n = 24 ) were asymptomatic yet had an abnormal heart rate variability and group c ( n = 38 ) were asymptomatic and had a normal heart rate variability ( 16-26 ) . the 10-year survival in group a ( 73.4 per cent ) was less ( p less than 0.05 ) than in groups b ( 91.7 per cent ) or c ( 89.5 per cent ) which did not differ from each other . the 18 group a deaths were due predominantly to renal failure ( n = 4 ) , myocardial infarction in patients with nephropathy ( n = 3 ) and sudden unexpected death ( n = 3 ) . the chief symptoms of autonomic neuropathy -- diarrhoea , postural hypotension and gustatory sweating , were very persistent but did not necessarily deteriorate or become disabling in the majority of patients . the development of autonomic symptoms in asymptomatic patients with abnormal heart rate variability was uncommon over a decade . 
the prevalence and risk factors associated with the onset of diabetic nephropathy in juvenile-onset ( insulin-dependent ) diabetics diagnosed under the age of 17 years in leicestershire 1930-1985 . the prevalence of diabetic nephropathy was studied in a population of 847 juvenile-onset ( insulin-dependent ) diabetics diagnosed under the age of 17 years who attended diabetic clinics in leicestershire between 1930 and 1985 . seven hundred and eighty-nine patients ( 93.2 per cent ) were traced . eight patients with non-diabetic proteinuria and four classified as maturity-onset diabetics of the young were excluded from further analysis . the mean age at onset was 9.3 + / - 4.2 years ( mean + / - sd ) and the mean duration of diabetes 17.0 + / - 10.6 years ( range 3-63 years ) . overall , 28 patients ( 3.6 per cent ) developed persistent proteinuria and 39 patients ( five per cent ) intermittent proteinuria . end-stage renal failure developed in eight patients . in patients with diabetes of 20 years duration ( n = 254 ) the prevalence of persistent proteinuria was 9.1 per cent and of intermittent proteinuria , 7.9 per cent . systolic and diastolic blood pressures were elevated in diabetics with persistent proteinuria compared to patients without proteinuria ( 154/89 + / - 27/15 vs 123/76 + / - 15/9 mm hg mean + / - sd ; p less than 0.001 ) . systolic blood pressure was also raised in patients with intermittent proteinuria ( 133/77 + / - 17/12 , p less than 0.005 ) . in addition , proteinuria ( intermittent and persistent ) was significantly associated with the use of once-daily insulin therapy in childhood and poor clinic attendance . this study suggests that twice-daily insulin therapy from diagnosis in childhood and regular contact with the diabetic clinic decreased the prevalence of diabetic nephropathy in this population . 
studies on the pathogenesis of hypertension in cushing 's disease and acromegaly . the pathogenesis of the hypertension associated with cushing 's syndrome and with acromegaly is poorly understood . we have investigated the possible roles of sodium retention , activation of the renin-angiotensin system and increased sympathetic nervous system activity in untreated patients . in 11 patients with cushing 's disease , seven of whom were hypertensive , total exchangeable sodium was normal despite increased levels of the mineralocorticoid hormones , 11-deoxy-corticosterone and corticosterone . the renin-angiotensin system was also normal . cardiac sensitivity to the beta-receptor agonist isoprenaline was increased , but this was not due to an increase in beta-adrenoceptor density . hypertension in cushing 's disease is neither sodium-dependent nor angiotensin ii-mediated , but increased cardiac sensitivity to catecholamines , by increasing cardiac output , may contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension . in nine patients with acromegaly ( three of whom were hypertensive ) total exchangeable sodium was elevated . although no correlation between blood pressure and exchangeable sodium was found , hypertension in acromegaly is probably sodium dependent . no evidence was found for a pathogenetic role for either the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone or the sympathetic nervous system . 
persistent and recurrent hyperparathyroidism : assessment with gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging . the effect of gadopentetate dimeglumine on signal intensity of abnormal parathyroid glands was assessed in 14 patients with persistent and recurrent hyperparathyroidism . non-contrast material-enhanced t1 - and t2-weighted spin-echo images were compared with t1-weighted images obtained 1 minute and 10 minutes after administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine . percentage of contrast between the abnormal gland and surrounding tissue was determined with the use of skeletal muscle , subcutaneous fat , and thyroid gland as reference tissues . all 11 abnormal parathyroid glands showed low to intermediate signal intensity on t1-weighted images and high signal intensity on t2-weighted images . gadopentetate dimeglumine significantly increased the signal intensity enhancement ratio of all abnormal parathyroid glands , causing increased percentage of contrast relative to the thyroid gland and skeletal muscle on t1-weighted images . however , the percentage of contrast relative to these tissues was even greater on nonenhanced t2-weighted images . thus , gadopentetate dimeglumine can substantially enhance the signal intensity of abnormal parathyroid glands and improve differential contrast with some neighboring tissues on t1-weighted images , but it does not improve contrast with surrounding tissue beyond that achieved on t2-weighted images . 
normal pituitary gland : coronal mr imaging of infundibular tilt . to determine the prevalence of pituitary infundibular deviation or tilt as a normal variant , coronal magnetic resonance ( mr ) images of 50 patients who had been examined for reasons other than pituitary disease were evaluated retrospectively . forty-six percent of the patients had a more or less pronounced tilt of the pituitary stalk . this tilt was due to developmental lateral eccentricity of the pituitary gland in relationship to the midline of the brain in 34 % and to ontogenic eccentric insertion of the pituitary infundibulum off the midline of the gland in the other 12 % . this high frequency of stalk deviation in patients without pituitary disease suggests that such displacement by itself should not be used to support the presence of pituitary microadenoma on mr images or computed tomograms . 
the effect of epilepsy or diabetes mellitus on the risk of automobile accidents background . previous studies of possible associations between chronic medical conditions and traffic safety have been inconsistent and subject to bias because of the incomplete identification of affected persons . recent advances in the diagnosis and management of epilepsy and diabetes mellitus have improved the control of these disorders and suggest a need to reexamine the risk of traffic mishaps among patients with these conditions . methods . we conducted a population-based retrospective cohort study of 30,420 subjects 16 to 90 years of age , with and without epilepsy or diabetes mellitus . subjects included all the licensed drivers in seven contiguous zip code areas in which the marshfield clinic and st. joseph 's hospital , marshfield , wisconsin , are the primary sources of medical care . standardized rates of moving violations and accidents over a four-year period ( 1985 through 1988 ) were compared in affected and unaffected cohorts . results . standardized mishap ratios for subjects with diabetes were 1.14 for all moving violations ( p = 0.23 ) and 1.32 for accidents ( p = 0.01 ) ; for subjects with epilepsy the ratios were 1.13 for moving violations ( p = 0.26 ) and 1.33 for accidents ( p = 0.04 ) . conclusions . we conclude that drivers with epilepsy or diabetes mellitus have slightly increased risks of traffic accidents as compared with unaffected persons . the increases in risk observed in our study were generally smaller than those in previous studies , and we believe they are not great enough to warrant further restrictions on driving privileges . 
effect of restricting dietary protein on the progression of renal failure in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus background . restriction of dietary protein may slow the progression of renal failure in diverse renal diseases , but the extent to which such a diet is beneficial in patients with diabetic nephropathy is uncertain . methods . we studied the effect of reduced intake of protein and phosphorus on the progression of renal disease in 35 patients with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus and clinically evident nephropathy . the low-protein , low-phosphorus diet contained 0.6 g of protein per kilogram of ideal body weight per day , 500 to 1000 mg of phosphorus , and 2000 mg of sodium . the control diet consisted of the patient 's prestudy diet with the stipulation that it contain 2000 mg of sodium and at least 1 g of protein per kilogram per day and 1000 mg of phosphorus . renal function was assessed by measurement of iothalamate and creatinine clearances at intervals of 3 to 6 months , and the patients were followed for a minimum of 12 months ( mean , 34.7 ) . the declines in mean glomerular filtration rates were compared between groups by linear-regression analysis of the glomerular filtration rate as a function of time . results . the patients who followed the study diet for a mean of 37.1 months had declines in iothalamate clearance of 0.0043 ml per second per month and in creatinine clearance of 0.0055 ml per second per month . the comparable values in the control group were 0.0168 and 0.0135 , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . blood pressure was well controlled , and the degree of glycemic control was comparable in both groups . conclusion . dietary restriction of protein and phosphorus can retard the progression of renal failure in patients with type i diabetes mellitus who have nephropathy . we believe that wider use of this treatment is indicated . 
aldosterone synthesis in salt-wasting congenital adrenal hyperplasia with complete absence of adrenal 21-hydroxylase . background . congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency is a disorder of cortisol and aldosterone biosynthesis that results from mutations in the cyp21 gene encoding the adrenal 21-hydroxylase p-450c21 . it can cause severe salt wasting in newborns that requires long-term treatment with glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids . we describe a spontaneous partial recovery from this disorder in a 19-year-old woman who had discontinued treatment . methods . we measured plasma and urinary levels of adrenal hormones , plasma renin activity , and sodium balance longitudinally in the patient and four other patients in whom adrenal hyperplasia had been diagnosed in infancy and in whom dna analysis had predicted a complete absence of functional p-450c21 . the ratio of plasma renin activity to urinary aldosterone was used as a measure of the response of the adrenal zona glomerulosa . two patients underwent intravenous infusion of [ 3h ] progesterone for the measurement of extraadrenal production of 21-hydroxylated precursors of aldosterone . results . the patient who had discontinued her medication excreted a normal amount of aldosterone ( 20.0 nmol per square meter of body-surface area per day ) while following a diet low in sodium . her ratio of plasma renin activity to urinary aldosterone-18-glucuronide excretion was 1.7 after three days of sodium restriction , as compared with a ratio of 4.7 at the age of nine years ( normal range , 0.03 to 0.1 ) . the percentage of extraadrenal conversion of progesterone to deoxycorticosterone was low . the four other patients had variable responses to sodium restriction after the neonatal period ( range for plasma renin activity : urinary aldosterone-18-glucuronide , 1.9 to 19.4 ) . conclusions . although patients with salt-wasting 21-hydroxylase deficiency have functionally equivalent mutations in their cyp21 genes , they may vary from one another and over time in their ability to produce mineralocorticoids . this variation may be attributable to another adrenal enzyme with 21-hydroxylase activity . 
the risk for systemic vascular diseases and mortality in patients with central retinal vein occlusion . in this cross-sectional study , the authors evaluated 197 patients diagnosed with central retinal vein occlusion ( crvo ) at the wilmer ophthalmological institute between 1980 and 1985 to determine the risk of systemic disease and mortality . complete follow-up information for mortality was obtained in 191 ( 97 % ) . national health interview survey ( nhis ) patients and wilmer cataract patients formed two comparison groups . the prevalence of hypertension was significantly elevated in the crvo cases when compared with both comparison groups ( p less than 0.03 , 0.005 ) . the prevalence of diabetes mellitus was increased in crvo cases in comparison with the nhis group ( p less than 0.005 ) . the prevalence of cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease was the same for all three groups , as was overall mortality . mortality was not increased in crvo cases as compared with united states mortality rates . 
oral contraception in disease states . oral contraceptives are clearly contraindicated in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease , ischemic heart attack , or cerebral stroke . patients requiring long-term anticoagulant treatment can be treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs to prevent ovulation , because ruptured follicles can cause massive intraperitoneal bleeding . patients with essential hypertension and severe liver diseases should also discontinue treatment 4 weeks before major elective surgery . migraine and diabetes mellitus are regarded as relative contraindications , depending on the individual situation . long-term diseases , such as crohn 's disease , epilepsy , and sickle cell anemia , also require individualized consultation . 
hemorrhagic pituitary adenomas : clinicopathological features and surgical treatment . forty-five ( 9.9 % ) of 453 pituitary adenomas operated on between january 1973 and november 1988 demonstrated hemorrhagic changes at surgery : 24 had a blood collection , 12 had a blood collection associated with hemorrhagic necrosis , and 9 had hemorrhagic necrosis . thirteen patients ( 28.9 % ) experienced the acute symptoms of pituitary apoplexy , whereas another 32 had an " asymptomatic " hemorrhage , that is , the clinical course was comparable to an uncomplicated adenoma . nineteen tumors ( 42.2 % ) showed marked suprasellar extension , 8 ( 17.8 % ) showed moderate extension , and 11 ( 24.5 % ) showed slight extension ; another 2 ( 4.4 % ) were laterosellar and 5 ( 11.1 % ) were intrasellar . invasive behavior was present in 32 cases ( 71.1 % ) and this may suggest another hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of tumoral hemorrhage . the incidence of hemorrhagic complications in invasive adenomas with marked suprasellar extension was particularly impressive ; therefore , we do not suggest preoperative bromocriptine treatment in this type of tumor . two of 14 patients operated on by the transcranial route died after surgery , whereas there was no operative mortality in the 31 patients operated on by the transsphenoidal route . it proved advantageous to operate as early as possible , even during the acute phase of pituitary apoplexy . the transsphenoidal approach gave the best results , but to achieve satisfactory late results multidisciplinary treatment was necessary , namely , postoperative radiotherapy in 23 patients , bromocriptine in 12 , and endocrine replacement therapy in almost all . in an average follow-up period of 6.2 years , 5 ( 11.1 % ) symptomatic recurrences were observed . 
diagnosis and management of precocious puberty . the onset of pubertal development before the age of 8 years in girls or 9 years in boys constitutes precocious puberty . there are numerous causes of precocious puberty , which can be classified as central or peripheral precocious puberty . central precocious puberty results from premature activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and thus presents with physical and hormonal findings similar to those found in normal puberty . peripheral precocious puberty results from extrapituitary gonadotropin secretion or secretion of sex steroids independent of pituitary gonadotropins . all types of precocious puberty are characterized by rapid growth and advancement of skeletal age , leading to the paradox of the tall child becoming a short adult as a result of premature epiphyseal fusion . long-acting gnrh agonists afford effective , selective , and reversible therapy of central precocious puberty without significant toxicity . gnrh agonists are not effective in managing the premature sexual maturation associated with peripheral precocious puberty , but a number of other agents have been used with some success . these agents include testolactone , ketoconazole , and medroxyprogesterone acetate . gnrh agonist treatment leads to an increase in predicted final height . to determine the true benefit of any of these agents in increasing ultimate height , there is a need for continuing studies in treated cohorts to follow growth patterns until adult stature is achieved . 
hyperthyroidism in children and adolescents . hyperthyroidism in infants and children usually is caused by graves ' disease ; however , several other diseases can also produce hyperthyroidism in these age groups . because the pathophysiology and clinical course of these conditions differ , optimal treatment depends on precise diagnosis . 
euthyroid low thyroxine ( t4 ) and triiodothyronine ( t3 ) states in prematures and sick neonates . this article reviews the ontogenesis of thyroid system function in the human fetus and newborn and characterizes thyroid function in the premature infant . thyroid function disorders associated with neonatal adaptation and illness also are reviewed ; these include transient hypothyroxinemia , transient primary hypothyroidism , and the syndrome of nonthyroidal illness . 
the cushing syndromes . the 10 years since this journal 's last review of cs have seen extraordinary advances in our understanding of many aspects of its causes , diagnosis , and treatment . the spectrum of what are now called the cushing syndromes has expanded considerably to include cd , multiple sources of ectopic acth secretion , and an apparent autoimmune cause . improved assays of acth and the availability of crf have provided new insight into the physiology and pathophysiology of the hpa axis and new tools for diagnosis of cs , especially in combination with selective catheterization and sampling . new imaging technology has improved our visualization of pituitary adenomas and has provided powerful methods for identifying tumors ectopically secreting acth and primary adrenal tumors . finally , the refinement of transsphenoidal surgery and its success in treating cd have provided a safe and effective therapy for this disease . for those occasional patients who require medical therapy , drugs are available that decrease steroid biosynthesis . we now have a much better understanding of a fascinating disease process and are able to diagnose and treat it more correctly . one is impatient to see which new pieces of this puzzle will fall into place over the next ten years . 
hyperandrogenism in peripubertal girls . androgens arise from either adrenal or ovarian secretion or by peripheral conversion of secreted precursors . the adrenals and ovaries normally contribute about equally to testosterone and ad production . dhas is the major adrenal 17-ks . testosterone is the major circulating form of androgen . more than 96 % of plasma testosterone is bound to shbg ; the free testosterone seems to be the bioavailable fraction . hyperandrogenism must be considered in any girl with premature or excessive development of public hair or acne , menstrual irregularity ( whether it be oligo-amenorrhea or dysfunctional uterine bleeding ) , or obesity . the most common cause of premature public hair development ( pubarche ) is premature adrenarche . the most common cause of hyperandrogenism presenting in a teenage girl is polycystic ovary syndrome . however , the differential diagnosis includes " exaggerated adrenarche , " late-onset congenital adrenal hyperplasia , virilizing tumors , cushing 's syndrome , hyperprolactinemia , acromegaly , and abnormalities of androgen action or of metabolism . the plasma free testosterone is a more sensitive indicator of hyperandrogenism than is the total testosterone concentration . the pattern of response of plasma free testosterone , dhas , and cortisol to dex-suppression testing is diagnostic of the source of androgen excess . most hyperandrogenic adolescents will be found to have pcos . the treatment is chosen according to particular symptoms , such as menstrual irregularity , hirsutism , or obesity . 
primary and secondary testicular insufficiency . the possibility of testicular insufficiency is a common problem for the pediatric practitioner . presentation varies with the severity of the defect , the developmental age achieved before onset , and the presence of associated other abnormalities . most commonly , primary and secondary testicular insufficiency present at the time of puberty , but the presentation may be at birth or in the early neonatal period . appropriate investigations may uncover the diagnosis at the time and allow intervention later at the appropriate age . secondary testicular failure , although more difficult to diagnose and to differentiate from simple delay of development , offers the possibility of later development of spermatogenesis and the attainment of fertility through the use of gonadotropins or gnrh replacement programs . in primary testicular failure , because it implies an intrinsic abnormality of the functioning elements of the testis , spermatogenesis is not inducable by hormonal stimulation . treatment of testicular failure in the neonatal period is unnecessary unless micropenis is associated . in the pubertal boy , testosterone replacement is the treatment of choice and should be initiated carefully , taking into consideration the age of the subject , his bone age , and the psychosocial circumstances . the goal of therapy is to achieve a normal progression of physical changes of puberty to physical maturity and the normal potential for sexual function . 
adolescent gynecomastia . differential diagnosis and management . gynecomastia signifies a transient or permanent disturbance in steroid hormone physiology and occurs when the male breast is exposed to a decreased ratio of androgen to estrogen . this article discusses pubertal and pathologic gynecomastia , diagnostic approach , and treatment . 
disorders of sexual differentiation and development . psychological aspects . children with abnormalities in sexual differentiation and development can have a smooth course of psychosocial development in spite of the significant risks and challenges they face . chances for a positive emotional outcome are made more likely by the careful handling of these patients at the time of first presentation . parents ' unambiguous acceptance of the child 's sex of rearing and early surgical intervention to normalize the child 's external genital appearance are critical elements in a positive outcome . further , the patterns of behavior documented in the materials reviewed in this article suggest difficulties of immaturity and social development rather than significant psychopathology . parent-child interactions were repeatedly found to be central to the child 's emotional well-being , underscoring the need to provide parents with adequate counsel and support . these patterns , however , represent findings across groups of patients and can not predict the emotional , social , or academic functioning of any individual . within all these clinical syndromes there is great individual variation in social , emotional , and physical presentation . finally , rather than minimizing problems , physicians need to educate parents so they can be active advocates for their children in the educational and social arenas . 
soft tissue calcification in renal failure . disorders of phosphorus , calcium , and vitamin d are common in patients with renal failure . medical management , including dietary phosphorus restriction , administration of phosphate binding agents , and calcium and vitamin d sterol supplementation , must be instituted to control serum concentrations of these substances because of the loss of normal homeostatic mechanisms . if these measures are not employed , soft tissue calcification and hyperparathyroidism may result . we report the case of a 22-year-old woman with endstage renal disease treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis who developed secondary hyperparathyroidism and tumorous calcinosis as a result of noncompliance with dietary phosphorus restriction and phosphate-binding agent therapy . the etiology and treatment of soft tissue calcification in patients with renal disease are discussed . compliance with dietary restrictions and phosphate binding agents is frequently problematic in this population . pharmacists should play an active role in educating patients with renal disease on the consequences of noncompliance with dietary and drug therapy . 
adrenal insufficiency in two women with anticardiolipin antibodies . cause and effect ? we describe 2 women with anticardiolipin antibodies and a lupus-like disorder who developed acute adrenal insufficiency . we also review 5 similar cases reported previously . anticardiolipin antibodies appear to be a risk factor for this vascular complication . 
mathematical models of myosin heterodimer formation in the rat heart during thyroid hormone alterations . to characterize the mechanisms involved in the formation of the myosin heavy chain ( mhc ) heterodimer v2 ( alpha beta-mhc ) and the homodimers v3 ( beta beta-mhc ) and v1 ( alpha alpha-mhc ) , 82 5-week-old normotensive rats with homogeneous v1 were made hypothyroid with propylthiouracil ( 0.8 % , drinking water ) , and the proportion of v2 , v3 , and v1 was determined by pyrophosphate gel electrophoresis in multicellular specimens of the left and right ventricles . after the switch from alpha-mhc to beta-mhc , the beta-mhc occurred initially in the form of the heterodimer . after 4 and 6 days , v2 was greater ( p less than 0.05 ) than v3 . at day 8 , v2 was smaller than v3 , and at day 10 , v2 was not statistically different from v3 . from day 12 onward , v2 was smaller than v3 . after 21 days , the propylthiouracil treatment was stopped , and the remaining 34 hypothyroid rats were injected with a daily dose of thyroxine ( average , 0.1 mg/kg body wt ) , resulting in a switch from beta-mhc to alpha-mhc . after 1 day , v2 still was greater than v1 ; however , already from day 3 onward , v2 was smaller than v1 . this characteristic but unexplained heterodimeric and homodimeric organization of the thick filament was analyzed by mathematical models involving probability calculations . two principally different models were established that assume either the exchange of mhc dimers or of single mhc in the thick filament . the parameters of the models were estimated by minimization routines using the squared discrepancies between the experimental and predicted isoenzyme populations . based on goodness of fit and crucial model parameters , we concluded that the characteristic organization of the thick filament can be accounted for by an exchange involving predominantly mhc dimers and not single mhc . the fact that v2 was lower than expected if formation of heterodimers and homodimers were random was attributed to the preferred homodimerization of 35 % of the newly synthesized mhc . 
disparate effects of colchicine on thyroxine-induced cardiac hypertrophy and adrenoceptor changes . short-term ( 5 days ) administration of l-thyroxine ( 0.1 mg/kg i.p. daily ) to adult sprague-dawley rats induces a modest degree of cardiac hypertrophy ( 22 % increase in heart weight/body weight ratios ) and directionally opposite changes in cardiac adrenoceptors ( 24 % increase in beta-adrenoceptors and 20 % decline in alpha 1-adrenoceptors ) . pretreatment with colchicine did not affect the ability of l-thyroxine to induce cardiac hypertrophy but prevented its effects on both beta - and alpha 1-adrenoceptors . these results suggest a selective involvement of microtubules in the action of thyroid hormones on the expression of cardiac adrenoceptor genes . 
prevalence of diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance in elderly subjects and their association with obesity and family history of diabetes . the goal of this study was to investigate the prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) in elderly subjects and their association with obesity , central obesity , and a family history of diabetes . a representative population sample of 1300 subjects ( 471 men , 829 women ) aged 65-74 yr participated in the study . the participation rate was 71 % . the prevalence rates of previously and newly diagnosed niddm and igt , based on a history of diabetes and an oral glucose tolerance test , were 8.7 , 7.0 , and 17.8 % in men and 11.7 , 7.1 , and 19.1 % in women . thus , 33.8 % of men and 37.9 % of women had abnormal glucose tolerance according to world health organization criteria . obesity ( body mass index greater than or equal to 27 kg/m2 in men and greater than or equal to 25 kg/m2 in women ) and central obesity ( waist-hip ratio greater than or equal to 0.98 in men and greater than or equal to 0.89 in women ) doubled the prevalence of igt or niddm . the combination of obesity and a family history of diabetes was associated with a more marked increase in the prevalence of igt or niddm in men than in women . simultaneous presence of obesity , central obesity , and a family history of diabetes was associated with a threefold increase in the prevalence of igt or niddm ( 65.4 vs. 24.1 % in men , 52.8 vs. 19.6 % in women , p less than 0.001 ) . the major risk factors for niddm , e.g. , obesity , central fat distribution , and a family history of diabetes , explained 10 % of the variance in 2-h glucose values in multiple regression analysis . in conclusion , the prevalence of igt and niddm was high in elderly subjects . although obesity , central fat distribution , and a family history of diabetes were significantly associated with the increased prevalence of igt or niddm , they explained only a minor proportion of the variance in 2-h glucose values . 
weight gain associated with improved glycemic control in population-based sample of subjects with type i diabetes . previous studies have suggested that weight gain is an identifiable risk of efforts to lower blood glucose with intensive insulin therapy in type i ( insulin-dependent ) diabetic subjects . this study examined this relationship in a population-based sample of type i diabetic subjects participating in the wisconsin epidemiologic study of diabetic retinopathy . four hundred five adults ( aged greater than or equal to 21 yr ) with type i diabetes , who were diagnosed before age 30 yr , were studied from 1980 to 1982 and in a follow-up examination from 1984 to 1986 . weight gain over the 4-yr interval averaged 1.8 + / - 5.9 kg . weight gain was significantly associated ( r = -0.26 , p less than 0.001 ) with improvements in glycosylated hemoglobin levels ; the quartile of subjects with the greatest improvements in glycemic control gained 3.4 kg , whereas the quartile of subjects with the smallest improvements in glycemic control lost 0.6 kg . weight gain was also correlated with increases in the number of shots of insulin per day and change in the treatment regimen from one type of insulin to a combination of short - and long-acting insulins . these results suggest that weight gain may be an adverse consequence of improved glycemic control . efforts to better understand the mechanism explaining weight gain and to prevent weight gain are needed . 
obesity and diabetes in blacks . diabetes mellitus is more prevalent in the american black population than in the white population . the prevalence is increasing in blacks , and there is evidence that it is accompanied by a greater severity of diabetic complications . in addition , mortality figures are higher in blacks , and black women are more seriously affected than black men . although the reasons for this are unclear , some factors stand out as important . these include obesity , socioeconomic status , and genetics . obesity is a severe problem in blacks , particularly in women . both the degree and the distribution of fat may contribute greatly to the prevalence of diabetes in blacks . although the prevalence of obesity is higher in the poor economic groups , multivariate analysis suggests that poverty can not explain all of the excess obesity that occurs in the black population . more research is needed into a possible genetic predisposition of blacks to obesity and diabetes and into the interrelationship between the two conditions in this racial group . 
diabetic cardiomyopathy . the purpose of this article was to review the clinical and experimental features of diabetic cardiomyopathy , with particular relevance to the black population . one hundred thirty-seven studies were identified , of which 57 were selected as references for this article . diabetes is associated with the development of cardiomyopathy , independent of coronary atherosclerosis . pathological studies show myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis ; microvascular pathology is also present , but all of these pathological findings have an uncertain relationship to myocardial failure . hemodynamic findings of both congestive and restrictive cardiomyopathy have been described . noninvasive studies revealed abnormal systolic and diastolic function in many diabetic subjects , particularly in the presence of diabetic complications and/or hypertension . experimental studies have focused on the mildly diabetic dog and the severely diabetic rat . one year of diabetes in dogs resulted in decreased left ventricular compliance and increased interstitial connective tissue . studies in the diabetic rat showed a marked slowing of contraction and relaxation . chronic insulin therapy reversed the changes in the rat model . combining hypertension with diabetes in the rat resulted in increased myocardial and coronary microvascular pathology and greater changes in isolated muscle function , electrophysiology , and contractile protein biochemistry . many hypertensive diabetic rats died spontaneously , showing signs of congestive heart failure . diabetic cardiomyopathy is a significant cause of heart failure in diabetic subjects and occurs more frequently in those with microvascular complications and/or hypertension . clinical studies are needed to clarify the natural history of this disorder , focusing on the benefits of tight control of hyperglycemia and treatment of associated hypertension . experimental studies will clarify the pathophysiology and contribute to improved therapy . the high prevalence of diabetes and hypertension in blacks makes these considerations especially relevant to this population . 
chronic diabetic complications and tissue glycosylation . relevant concern for diabetes-prone black population . a significant segment of the black population is affected by chronic diabetes , and most of them are subjected to severe cardiovascular , renal , and neurological complications that shorten survival and diminish quality of life . one of the important pathogenetic mechanisms under intensive investigation is advanced tissue glycosylation . tissue and cell surface proteins modified nonenzymatically by glucose are shown to be highly active in protein cross-linking and have been implicated in tissue damage . such protein-glucose interactions , called advanced glycosylation end products ( ages ) , are processed by macrophages through a high-affinity receptor . coupling of age proteins to their age receptors results in their degradation and removal and , simultaneously , in synthesis and secretion of pluripotential cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 1 . this suggests that age may act normally as a signal for growth-promoting factor secretion in a coordinated replacement process during tissue remodeling . in chronic diabetes , however , where accelerated accumulation of tissue age occurs , a disturbance of this balance may lead to several pathological , lytic , and/or proliferative responses like those in the vasculopathy of diabetes . progress has been made with the discovery of aminoguanidine hcl , an age inhibitor , which has prevented significant pathology in short-term diabetic animal studies . 
hypertension and diabetes in blacks . this article summarizes the current state of knowledge on the interrelationship between non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , obesity , insulin resistance , and hypertension in our attempt to explore the pathophysiology of the high incidence of diabetes and hypertension in the black population in the united states . a central role for hyperinsulinemia is proposed , and questions are raised that are suitable for investigative clinical trials . 
anorectal sensory and motor function in neurogenic fecal incontinence . comparison between multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus . we measured anorectal sensory and motor function in 11 patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence , 11 continent patients with multiple sclerosis , 10 diabetics with fecal incontinence , and 12 healthy control subjects . the threshold volume at which patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence experienced rectal sensation was higher than that in healthy controls ( 42.7 + / - 6.2 ml vs. 13.3 + / - 2.8 ml ; p less than 0.01 ) and was similar to that in incontinent diabetics ( 36.5 + / - 5.7 ml ) . patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinent diabetics also showed increased thresholds of phasic external sphincter contraction compared with controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . diabetics with incontinence had reduced resting and maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures compared with controls ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinence showed only decreased maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures ( p less than 0.01 vs. controls and diabetics ) . incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis also required smaller volumes of rectal distention to inhibit internal sphincter tone compared with diabetics and controls ( p less than 0.01 ) . decreased maximal voluntary squeeze pressures were less severe in continent patients with multiple sclerosis than in incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis . we conclude that impaired function of the external anal sphincter and decreased volumes of rectal distention to inhibit the internal anal sphincter or both may contribute to fecal incontinence in multiple sclerosis . in addition , increased thresholds of conscious rectal sensation in some incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus may contribute to fecal incontinence by impairing the recognition of impending defecation . 
radiologic manifestations in the musculoskeletal system of miscellaneous endocrine disorders . the manifestations of endocrine derangements in the musculoskeletal system in infancy and childhood are disturbances in growth and maturation and in adulthood are disturbances in maintenance and metabolism . hypercortisolism during skeletal immaturity suppresses growth . in the adult , hypercortisolism leads to osteoporosis , osteonecrosis , and muscle wasting . deficiency of growth hormone during skeletal development results in short stature . an excess of growth hormone in a skeletally immature individual results in gigantism , an excess in a skeletally mature individual results in acromegaly . patients with gigantism have extreme height with normal body proportions . musculoskeletal manifestations of acromegaly include soft-tissue thickening , vertebral body enlargement , characteristic hand and foot changes , and enthesal bony proliferation . hyperthyroidism causes catabolism of protein and loss of connective tissue , which manifest as muscle wasting . deficient levels of thyroid hormone cause defects in growth and development . severe growth retardation from congenital hypothyroidism is rare because neonatal screening recognizes the disorder and leads to early treatment . the skeletal manifestation of hypergonadism in children is precocious growth and early skeletal maturation . although the initial precocious growth spurt results in a tall child , early closure of the growth plates results in a short adult . hypogonadism in the prepubertal child results in delayed adolescence and delayed skeletal maturation . diabetes mellitus in childhood results in decreased growth , a phenomenon presumed to be secondary to nutritional abnormalities . generalized osteoporosis and short stature are common . in the adult , generalized osteoporosis may accompany insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus if obesity is absent . calcification of interdigital arteries of the foot is common in diabetics and uncommon in other conditions . additional skeletal manifestations relate to complications of diabetes such as peripheral neuropathy and diabetic foot disease . 
hyperparathyroidism . since the introduction of routine automated measurements of serum calcium levels in the 1970s , the detection of primary hyperparathyroidism has risen considerably . nevertheless , the severe bone changes described by von recklinghausen are still quite rare . the apparent rise in incidence is accounted for by the discovery of a large group of predominantly asymptomatic elderly patients who have mild primary hyperparathyroidism . because the diagnosis is most often confirmed through laboratory tests , radiologic studies are now most useful in assessing the severity of the disease . the presence of bone changes is an accepted indication for parathyroid surgery in primary hyperparathyroidism . for patients with asymptomatic disease in whom nonsurgical treatment may be considered , radiographic evaluation is one of several techniques that may be used to assess progression . high resolution radiographs of the hands are most valuable in this regard . accelerated bone mineral loss , as measured by quantitative techniques , will probably play a significant role in the future . radiographic follow-up of patients with renal disease and secondary hyperparathyroidism is equally important , as increased bone or soft tissue changes may indicate a need for therapeutic change . radiographically identifiable changes of hyperparathyroidism consist mainly of various types of accelerated bone resorption . multifocal subperiosteal resorption is generally considered to be pathognomonic of hyperparathyroidism . subligamentous , subchondral , endosteal , and intracortical resorption are also important manifestations of accelerated bone turnover . the earliest bone changes are visible in the hands and should be searched for especially carefully in the phalanges and terminal tufts . only occasionally will changes be found elsewhere in the skeleton when hand changes are not present . 
the natural history of renal stone disease after parathyroidectomy for primary hyperparathyroidism . the evolution of renal stone disease has been followed , before and after parathyroidectomy , in 197 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . before operation , 120 patients had had a previous history of renal colics or stones , or both , demonstrated on roentgenograms of the urinary tract . in 36 patients with stones that had been passed or removed before exploration of the neck , no recurrence of lithiasis has been observed . in 84 patients who still had stones at the time of the operation , the stones dissolved and disappeared within ten years in 88 per cent of those with urolithiasis and in 77 per cent with nephrocalcinosis . the rate of stone disappearance was similar in those with or without preoperative urinary tract infection and in patients operated upon for adenoma of the parathyroid gland or primary hyperplasia . this rate was slower for patients with a postoperative urinary infection . the frequency of renal colics , 0.66 per patient per year before parathyroidectomy , decreased to 0.02 per patient per year after the first postoperative year . 
vitamin c and cardiovascular risk factors . the concept that ascorbic acid ( vitamin c ) supplementation protects against coronary heart disease developed in the late 1970s when vitamin c intakes in industrialized nations were lower than at present . supplementation was then shown to lower plasma total cholesterol and , among some elderly men , to raise high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . however , among people in initially good vitamin c nutriture , these effects are usually not seen . in five populations of essentially healthy people , blood pressure has been found to correlate negatively with vitamin c status . recently , in a placebo-controlled , double-blinded study , extra ascorbic acid for 6 wk was observed to lower systolic and pulse pressure in a small group of borderline hypertensive subjects . 
distribution of deletions and seven point mutations on cyp21b genes in three clinical forms of steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency . to characterize mutations in the cyp21b gene that are responsible for congenital adrenal hyperplasia ( cah ) , dna samples from 91 french patients have been studied by allelic-specific oligonucleotide hybridization and southern blot analysis . seven sites mostly found in the cyp21a pseudogene and deletions of the functional cyp21b gene have been screened . gene conversions involving small dna segments accounted for 57 % of the tested mutations and probably cause 74 % of the mutations responsible for the disease . complete deletion of the cyp21b gene accounted for 18 % of the cah mutations in the whole sample and for 21 % in the classical form of the disease . three mutations were found associated with specific clinical forms of the disease : a g-c substitution in the seventh exon was associated with the late-onset form of the disease , and both an 8-bp depletion in the third exon and complete deletion of cyp21b were associated with the salt-wasting form . 
lipid abnormalities , renal failure , and parathyroid hormone . a substantial number of patients with chronic renal failure display type iv lipoproteinemia . they have elevated serum levels of very-low-density , intermediate-density , and low-density lipoprotein . serum cholesterol levels are usually normal and those of high-density lipoprotein are low . it is generally accepted that hypertriglyceridemia is due to decreased removal from the blood secondary to reduced activity of lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase . secondary hyperparathyroidism and elevated blood levels of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) may play an important role in the pathogenesis of the triglyceridemia of chronic renal failure . indeed , parathyroidectomized-normocalcemic dogs with chronic renal failure have normal serum levels of triglyceride , normal fat tolerance , and normal post-heparin lipolytic activity . available data indicate that the abnormalities in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in chronic renal failure are linked . excess pth suppresses insulin release from pancreatic islets , and the insulin deficiency results in carbohydrate intolerance . insulin deficiency also causes decreased synthesis of lipoprotein lipase and hence abnormal lipid metabolism . thus , the hyperparathyroidism of chronic renal failure may play a paramount role in the genesis of the abnormal metabolism of both carbohydrates and lipids . 
17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency masquerading as primary hyperaldosteronism . a unique case of 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency with steroid-responsive primary hyperaldosteronism is reported . initially the patient was misdiagnosed as testicular feminization for 16 years and was thought to have typical primary hyperaldosteronism for 5 years . however , careful detailed endocrine studies showed markedly elevated progesterone , deoxycorticosterone , and 18-hydroxycorticosterone values with low levels of 17-hydroxyprogesterone , 11-deoxycortisol , testosterone , and dhea-sulfate . in contrast to the suppressed aldosterone levels that are found in 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency , this patient 's aldosterone levels were inappropriately elevated before and after acth stimulation . use of glucocorticoid replacement resolved the patient 's symptoms and completely corrected the hypokalemia and hypertension . in summary , recognition of 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency with steroid-responsive primary hyperaldosteronism is important because hypertension , hypokalemia , and symptoms respond to steroid replacement . 
renal disease in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . diabetic nephropathy now accounts for approximately one-third of all patients who develop end-stage renal disease . the estimated cost to supply renal replacement therapy for this population now exceeds $ 750 million . the relatively recent realization that half of these individuals suffer from noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has sparked increased interest in attempts to understand the pathologic processes involved and how they may be similar or different from those alterations seen in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . basic and clinical investigation continues in an attempt to solve the puzzle of pathogenesis , as well as answer questions about the clinical usefulness of microalbuminuria and the appropriate management of hypertension in this population . 
locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasms as a cause for recurrent and persistent primary hyperparathyroidism . between 1982 and 1989 , 145 patients underwent operations for persistent or recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism ( hpt ) . at re-exploration , 15 patients ( 10.3 % ) were found to have locally recurrent parathyroid tumors ( 11 patients with adenoma and 4 with carcinoma ) . these 15 patients had 28 previous operations at outside institutions for hpt . patients with locally recurrent hpt secondary to adenoma had a longer disease-free interval than patients with locally recurrent carcinoma . at the time of evaluation at the national institutes of health ( nih ) for recurrent or persistent hpt , each patient was symptomatic and patients with carcinoma had significantly more symptoms and higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone than patients with adenoma . locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm was correctly localized by preoperative testing in 14 of 15 patients . these 15 patients underwent 18 reoperations at nih for excision of locally recurrent parathyroid tumors . following the final reoperation ( two patients had more than one procedure ) , each patient had normal serum levels of calcium . in addition each patient remains biochemically cured ( based on normal serum calcium level ) , with a median follow-up interval of 21 months . local recurrence of parathyroid adenoma comprises a small but significant proportion of cases of recurrent or persistent hpt and can be indistinguishable from parathyroid carcinoma . findings suggestive of carcinoma include shorter disease-free interval , higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone , and histologic appearance . whether the locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm is benign or malignant , aggressive surgery can control serum levels of calcium in these patients with acceptable rates of morbidity . 
low serum thyrotropin ( thyroid-stimulating hormone ) in older persons without hyperthyroidism . we studied a large population ( n = 2575 ) of unselected ambulatory persons older than 60 years to determine the prevalence of a low serum thyroid-stimulating hormone ( tsh ) level , ie , of less than 0.1 mu/l using a sensitive assay , a level suggestive of hyperthyroidism in younger adults . one hundred one persons ( 3.9 % ) had a low serum tsh level . about half of them ( 51/101 ) were taking thyroid hormone . of the remainder , 44 were not hyperthyroid did not become so during up to 4 years of follow-up . forty-one of the 44 euthyroid persons had a serum thyroxine level of less than 129 nmol/l ; repeated testing showed a serum tsh level of more than 0.1 mu/l in the three euthyroid persons with a serum thyroxine level of more than 129 nmol/l . only six were hyperthyroid or became so during the follow-up period ; all had a serum thyroxine level of more than 129 nmol/l . routine clinical examination was not a sensitive indicator of hyperthyroidism and did not permit discrimination from euthyroidism . a low value of serum tsh alone , while it had high sensitivity and specificity for hyperthyroidism , had a low positive predictive value ( 12 % ) for this diagnosis ; addition of the thyroxine assay raised the predictive value fivefold to 67 % . a low value of serum tsh is far more common in older persons than is hyperthyroidism . low values in euthyroid persons are accompanied by a clearly normal serum t4 concentration ( less than 129 nmol/l ) or by a serum tsh level of more than 0.1 mu/l on repeated testing . we recommend measurement of the serum tsh thyroid concentration , using a sensitive assay , as the initial step in testing any older person for possible hyperthyroidism . measurement of the serum t4 concentration or the free t4 index on the same sample would be needed only in the approximately 2 % with a serum tsh level of less than 0.1 mu/l ; alternatively , the tsh assay in these could be repeated at a later time . 
menopausal estrogen replacement therapy and breast cancer we conducted a meta-analysis of the literature concerning breast cancer and estrogen replacement therapy . the overall relative risk of breast cancer associated with this therapy was 1.07 . however , the variation of the estimated risks among the studies was far greater than could plausibly be explained by chance alone . to explain this variation , we looked at the effects of type , duration , and dosage of treatment . overall , women who took 0.625 mg/d or less of conjugated estrogens had a risk of breast cancer that was 1.08 times that of women who did not receive this therapy ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 0.96 to 1.2 ) . the relative risks from these individual studies of low-dosage therapy did not differ significantly from each other . women who took 1.25 mg/d or more of conjugated estrogens had a breast cancer relative risk of 2.0 or less in all studies . however , the variation in observed risks at this higher dosage was significant . this implies that other risk factors varied among these studies , making it difficult to estimate the overall risk associated with this dosage . the relative risk of breast cancer associated with estrogen replacement therapy among women with a history of benign breast disease was 1.16 ( 95 % ci , 0.89 to 1.5 ) . the combined results from multiple studies provide strong evidence that menopausal therapy consisting of 0.625 mg/d or less of conjugated estrogens does not increase breast cancer risk . 
topical treatment of necrotic foot ulcers in diabetic patients : a comparative trial of duoderm and mezinc . an open randomized controlled study was carried out of 44 diabetic patients with necrotic foot ulcers treated with adhesive zinc oxide tape ( mezinc ) or with an adhesive occlusive hydrocolloid dressing ( duoderm ) . fourteen of the 21 patients treated with mezinc had their necrotic ulcers improved by at least 50 % compared to six out of 21 with the hydrocolloid dressing ( p less than 0.025 ) . fifteen patients showed an increase in the area of necrosis during the course of the 5-week study and of these , 10 had been treated with the hydrocolloid dressing . 
emphysematous pyelonephritis : surgical implications . emphysematous pyelonephritis in patients with diabetes mellitus is increasingly recognised as a disease requiring urgent and aggressive treatment . we present 3 cases of emphysematous pyelonephritis ; 1 patient required percutaneous nephrostomy followed by nephroureterectomy but the other 2 were successfully managed with antibiotics and control of diabetes . diagnosis was confirmed by sequential imaging techniques which demonstrated an inflammatory renal mass associated with gas and fluid . 
a study of cyproheptadine in the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor and the malignant carcinoid syndrome . sixteen patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and the malignant carcinoid syndrome were treated with cyproheptadine ( periactin , merck , sharp & dohme , west point , pa ) at maximum tolerable doses that ranged from 12 to 48 mg daily . usual side effects were mild sedation and dry mouth , but three patients found it impossible to sustain treatment due to nausea and vomiting . most patients had significant relief of diarrhea , frequently associated with weight gain . relief of flushing was uncommon . the therapeutic benefit produced by cyproheptadine would appear to be a peripheral effect because 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5-hiaa ) excretion in these patients was not reduced . although there have been case reports of objective tumor regression with cyproheptadine therapy , this was not observed in any of these 16 patients . cyproheptadine would appear to be a useful therapeutic tool for the management of diarrhea associated with the malignant carcinoid syndrome . an appropriate initial total daily dose is 0.4 mg/kg divided in three fractions with prompt modification to produce minimal and tolerable side effects . 
novel antigens characteristic of neuroendocrine malignancies . the authors describe the immunochemical detection , biochemical characterization , and tissue distribution of neuroendocrine antigens recognized by three newly developed monoclonal antibodies ( moab ) obtained after immunization of mice with the variant small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) cell line nci-h82 . rnl-1 was reactive with neuroendocrine tissues similar to the sclc cluster-1 moab , known to recognize n-cam . antibodies rnl-2 and rnl-3 are directed against different epitopes on the same proteinaceous complex . both moab recognize an intracellularly located , water-soluble antigen which has a subunit composition with a protein triplet ranging in molecular weight between 44 and 45 kilodaltons ( kd ) next to a component of approximately 30 kd . the antibodies rnl-2 and rnl-3 reacted with a subset of neuroendocrine tissues and neuroendocrine neoplasms . in lung cancer both antibodies reacted only with some sclc and carcinoids and not with nonneuroendocrine lung carcinomas . the potential diagnostic applicability of antibodies rnl-1 , rnl-2 , and rnl-3 is discussed . 
nature of altered growth hormone secretion in hyperthyroidism . hyperthyroidism is accompanied by various neuroendocrine regulatory disturbances that affect not only the thyrotropic , but also the gonadotropic , corticotropic , and somatotropic axes . to examine the nature of alterations in neuroendocrine control mechanisms that direct the somatotropic axis in hyperthyroidism , we have applied a novel deconvolution technique designed to estimate the number , amplitude , and mass of significant underlying gh secretory events after the influence of gh metabolic clearance has been removed mathematically . to this end , blood was sampled at 10-min intervals for 24 h in seven hyperthyroid and seven age-matched euthyroid men . the subsequent gh time series were assayed by immunoradiometric assay ( sensitivity , 0.08 ng/ml ) and submitted to quantitative deconvolution analysis . we found that hyperthyroid compared to euthyroid men 1 ) had significantly more gh secretory bursts per 24 h ( viz . 15 + / - 1.0 vs. 10 + / - 1.1 ; p = 0.017 ) ; 2 ) secreted 3 times as much gh per burst ( 3.7 + / - 0.80 vs. 1.3 + / - 0.42 ng/ml distribution vol ; p = 0.013 ) ; 3 ) achieved a maximal rate of gh secretion in each burst 2.3-fold higher than that in control men ( 0.14 + / - 0.028 vs. 0.060 + / - 0.015 ng/ml . min ; p = 0.017 ) ; and 4 ) had 3.7-fold higher 24-h endogenous gh production rates ( p less than 0.01 ) . neither hyperthyroid nor euthyroid men had significant interburst ( tonic ) gh secretion . we conclude that the somatotropic axis in hyperthyroid men is marked by a higher frequency of spontaneous gh secretory bursts , a higher rate of maximal gh secretion attained per burst , and a larger mass of gh released per burst . these neuroregulatory disturbances result in a nearly 4-fold increase in the 24-h production rate of gh in thyrotoxicosis . 
thyroid ultrasonography helps to identify patients with diffuse lymphocytic thyroiditis who are prone to develop hypothyroidism . the clinical usefulness of thyroid ultrasonography in the evaluation of patients with autoimmune thyroiditis has been investigated . thyroid ultrasonography was performed in 1184 consecutive patients attending our clinic , and the echo density of the thyroid parenchyma was evaluated with respect to that of normal thyroid tissue . diffuse thyroid hypoechogenicity was found in 44 of 238 ( 18.5 % ) patients with autoimmune thyroiditis ; the degree of hypoechogenicity was significantly correlated with the levels of circulating thyroid autoantibodies . thyroid function was normal in all 194 patients with normal thyroid echogenicity , whereas hypothyroidism was found in 28 of 44 ( 63.6 % ) with reduced thyroid echogenicity . included in this group were 8 patients , euthyroid at the first observation , who developed hypothyroidism over an 18-month follow-up period . none of the 133 patients with autoimmune thyroiditis and normal thyroid echogenicity followed for the same period of time became hypothyroid . evidence of diffuse lymphocytic thyroiditis was obtained by histology after thyroidectomy ( n = 10 ) or multiple fine needle aspiration cytology ( n = 15 ) in 25 of the 44 patients with thyroid hypoechogenicity ; on the other hand , focal thyroiditis was shown at histology in 8 patients who had normal thyroid echogenicity . in conclusion , diffuse low thyroid echogenicity was found in about 20 % of patients with autoimmune thyroiditis . this echographic pattern is indicative of diffuse autoimmune involvement of the gland and is associated with or may predict the development of hypothyroidism . 
falsely elevated serum parathyroid hormone levels due to immunoglobulin g in a patient with idiopathic hypoparathyroidism . a 73-yr-old patient with idiopathic hypoparathyroidism was admitted to our hospital in may 1981 . the immunoreactive pth ( ipth ) level determined by ria using antiserum specific for the c-terminal region of pth - ( 65-69 ) was in the upper normal range ( 0.6 ng/ml ) and over the next 7 yr increased gradually to 6 ng/ml . since ipth levels determined using other commercial ria kits remained constantly decreased or in the undetectable range , we studied the mechanism of false elevation of ipth in this patient . the patient 's serum contained no binding protein to the tracer ( [ 125i ] ) [ tyr45 ] human pth - ( 46-84 ) ) , nor was any heterophilic antibody to the first [ guinea pig immunoglobulin g ( igg ) ] or the second antibody ( goat igg ) detected . consistent with these findings , the dilution curve of the serum was parallel with that of standard bovine pth - ( 1-84 ) . gel filtration analysis revealed that the ipth-like substance was eluted in the void volume ( apparent mol wt , greater than 70,000 ) . almost all of the ipth-like substance was adsorbod by a protein-a-sepharose column . when the igg fraction purified by protein-a-sepharose affinity chromatography was applied to an antihuman igg lambda-sepharose column , 72 % of the ipth-like substance was detected in the igg lambda . these results suggest that the falsely elevated ipth in the patient 's serum was due to iggs ( mainly igg lambda ) , which were cross-reactive with the antiserum highly specific for the c-terminal region of human pth - ( 65-69 ) . 
3 alpha-androstanediol glucuronide in premature and normal pubarche . to investigate the role of adrenal androgens in 3 alpha-androstanediol glucuronide ( 3ag ) production in childhood , we compared serum 3ag and androgen levels [ dehydroepiandrosterone ( dhea ) , dhea sulfate ( ds ) , androstenedione ( delta 4-a ) , and testosterone ( t ) ] in 32 children with premature pubarche due to idiopathic premature adrenarche ( ipa ; n = 26 ) , partial 21-hydroxylase deficiency ( n = 2 ) , or 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency ( n = 4 ) with those in 36 normal prepubertal ( 18 males and 18 females ) and 22 normal pubertal tanner ii-iii subjects ( 10 males and 12 females ) . serum 3ag ( 2.7 + / - 2.0 nmol/l ) and all androgen concentrations in children with ipa were significantly higher ( p less than 0.05-0 .001 ) than those in normal prepubertal children ( 3ag , 0.8 + / - 0.5 nmol/l ) . serum 3ag and androgen levels , except t , in all children with premature pubarche due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency or 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency were higher than those in the normal prepubertal children . serum 3ag and all androgen levels in normal tanner ii-iii male ( 3ag , 3.8 + / - 1.7 nmol/l ) or female ( 3ag , 1.74 + / - 0.52 nmol/l ) subjects were also significantly higher ( p less than 0.05-0 .001 ) than those in prepubertal children . serum 3ag , dhea , ds , and delta 4-a levels in children with ipa were similar to those in normal tanner ii-iii females or males , but serum t in children with ipa ( 0.37 + / - 0.2 nmol/l ) was significantly lower ( p less than 0.05-0 .001 ) than that in normal pubertal females ( 0.71 + / - 0.37 nmol/l ) or males ( 4.5 + / - 2.6 nmol/l ) . in the combined group ( n = 88 ) , 3ag levels correlated better with serum ds ( r = 0.7 ) , dhea ( r = 0.6 ) , and delta 4-a ( r = 0.52 ) , than with t ( r = 0.31 ) levels . these data suggest that the weak adrenal androgens ds , dhea , and delta 4-a contribute substantially to 3ag production in premature and normal pubarche . 
pulsatile thyrotropin release and thyroid function in acromegalics before and during subcutaneous octreotide infusion . the pulsatile secretion of tsh was studied in eight patients with active acromegaly before treatment and after 1 month of therapy consisting of the sc infusion of 300 micrograms octreotide/day . mean gh levels decreased from 37.1 + / - 7.2 to 5.2 + / - 1.4 mu/l ( p = 0.002 ) . insulin-like growth factor-i levels decreased from 82.9 + / - 8.8 to 37.8 + / - 9.8 nmol/l ( p less than 0.01 ) and normalized in five of the eight patients . in one patient tsh levels were undetectable before and during octreotide therapy . in the other seven patients , cluster analysis revealed 11.9 + / - 0.8 pulses/24 h , with a mean pulse width of 81 + / - 4.6 min , a mean pulse height of 1.33 + / - 0.42 mu/l , and a mean pulse increment of 0.36 + / - 0.12 mu/l . during octreotide therapy these pulse parameters remained unchanged . pulse height and amplitude increased significantly during the night ( i.e. from 2000-0800 h ) in both untreated and treated patients . the acrophase was unchanged by therapy . during therapy t3 levels decreased from 2.05 + / - 0.17 nmol/l to 1.44 + / - 0.08 nmol/l ( p = 0.001 ) , while rt3 levels increased from 0.14 + / - 0.02 nmol/l to 0.19 + / - 0.03 nmol/l ( p less than 0.05 ) . plasma t4 levels remained unchanged . from these studies we conclude that the tsh pulse generator is unchanged in active acromegaly and apparently unaffected by chronic octreotide infusions . 
the role of free fatty acid metabolism in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance in obesity and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . to investigate the mechanisms of insulin resistance in obesity and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , we examined oxidative and nonoxidative pathways of free fatty acid ( ffa ) and glucose metabolism in 14 lean and 17 obese ( with normal oral glucose tolerance ) nondiabetic subjects and in 8 lean and 8 obese subjects with niddm . ffa and glucose metabolism were measured using the sequential insulin clamp technique in combination with indirect calorimetry and infusion of [ 3-3h ] glucose and [ 1-14c ] palmitate . obesity was characterized by enlarged fat mass , which correlated positively with the plasma ffa concentration ( r = 0.62 ; p less than 0.01 ) . ffa metabolism was less sensitive to insulin in obese than in lean nondiabetic subjects , but this defect could be overcome by increasing the plasma insulin concentration . niddm patients showed normal sensitivity to the inhibitory action of insulin on ffa metabolism ; however , maximal suppression by insulin was impaired . the combination of obesity and niddm was associated with a further enhancement of reesterification of ffa than observed in either condition alone . in both obesity and niddm , the dose-response curve for suppression of hepatic glucose production by insulin was impaired . while obesity was primarily characterized by reduced sensitivity to the stimulatory action of insulin on oxidative and nonoxidative pathways of glucose metabolism , resistance to the effect of insulin on glucose metabolism in niddm was characterized by a reduced maximal response . the combination of obesity and niddm further impaired the sensitivity of liver glucose output and glucose oxidation to insulin . the hypothesis is advanced that in uncomplicated obesity , increased availability and oxidation of ffa leads , by the ffa/glucose cycle , to the impairment in glucose utilization . in niddm , on the other hand , the defect in glucose utilization is primary , and the enhanced rate of ffa oxidation may represent a compensatory phenomenon . 
monoclonal antibody b72 .3 in benign breast lesions . it has been suggested that the monoclonal antibody b72 .3 may be useful as a diagnostic tool in fine needle aspirates of breast masses because it recognises " tumour associated glycoprotein ( tag ) -72 " . the antigen was sought in paraffin wax sections of 43 normal and benign breast biopsy specimens , using the avidin-biotin complex technique , to assess the extent of its presence in non-malignant tissue . strong focal staining was seen in 21 ( 49 % ) cases . in 29 cases of fibrocystic change staining was present in 17 ( 59 % ) . all areas of apocrine metaplasia were positive , as well as a few normal ducts and acini and occasional areas of adenosis . focal positivity was present in five out of 12 foci of ductal epithelial hyperplasia and in three out of seven radial scars . staining was absent in two areas of lobular hyperplasia , three areas of sclerosing adenosis , and in a focus of lactational change . focal positivity was also seen in two out of five fibroadenomas and in two out of three intraduct papillomas . five normal subareolar sections and a section of normal lactating breast were negative . it is concluded that b72 .3 monoclonal antibody can show focal reactivity with a variety of normal and benign epithelial mammary structures , and it is doubtful that its use would be of any help in differentiating benign from malignant cells in fine needle aspirates . 
thyroid function in a healthy elderly population : implications for clinical evaluation . evaluation of thyroid function in elderly people is complex and has generated some controversy about what is normal . this study analyzed thyroid function assays in an identified healthy elderly population of 216 subjects . thyroxine , free thyroxine , triiodothyronine , t3 uptake , " supersensitive " thyrotropin , and thyroid antibody titers were performed . histories of treatment for thyroid conditions were present in 13.9 % ( n = 30 ) of the population , and test results for an additional 4.3 % ( n = 8 ) revealed some hypothyroidism . these subjects were excluded from statistical analysis . test results revealed significant differences from younger controls as well as skewed distributions for t4 , ft4 , and tsh . there were no significant correlations with increasing age or gender within the elderly population . 11.8 % ( n = 21 ) of the population exhibited elevated tsf levels with normal t4 values , and 23.0 % ( n = 41 ) exhibited a titer of one or both thyroid antibodies . current reference ranges for thyroid tests are broad enough to include the range of values seen in the healthy elderly , but some cautions are discussed . 
early inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone after trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy . the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone ( siadh ) is a rare but life-threatening complication of trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy . it has previously only been described as a late phenomenon . we report an early presentation within the first week . the pathophysiology , clinical features and treatment are discussed . 
glucose tolerance and hyperinsulinaemia in obese women : role of adipose tissue distribution , muscle fibre characteristics and androgens . the separate independent statistical contribution of abdominal distribution of fat , hyperandrogenicity and muscle morphology to glucose intolerance and hyperinsulinaemia was analysed in 88 obese women . in univariate analyses the waist/hip circumference ratio ( whr ) , body fat and lean body mass were all positively associated , and shbg levels were negatively associated with insulin and glucose values . muscle fibre areas were positively correlated with insulin but not with glucose concentrations . adjustment for other variables did not remove the positive association between whr and fasting insulin and glucose concentrations . shbg , free testosterone and type iib fibre areas were , however , significant confounding factors in the relationship between whr and summed insulin and glucose concentrations . we conclude that fat distribution in obese women is associated with fasting hyperglycaemia and hyperinsulinaemia , independently of androgens and muscle fibre morphology , but that reduced shbg concentrations and increased type iib fibre areas may partly explain increased glucose and insulin responses to an oral glucose load in abdominally obese women . 
skeletal scintigraphy in coeliac disease . a patient with undiagnosed , long-standing coeliac disease had multiple hot spots on skeletal scintigraphy , similar to those observed in malignant disease metastatic to the skeleton . a gluten-free diet corrected the pathological laboratory values , and a repeat skeletal scintigram 15 months after the first one was normal . it is important to identify the secondary hyperparathyroidism of coeliac disease as a cause of multiple hot spots in skeletal scintigraphy -- the finding resembles malignancy , but is due to a benign , curable condition . 
assessment of pupillary light reflex latency and darkness adapted pupil size in control subjects and in diabetic patients with and without cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy . increased pupillary light reflex latencies were found more often than a reduced darkness pupil size in diabetic patients with and without abnormal cardiovascular reflexes . this finding suggests that parasympathetic pupillary dysfunction precedes sympathetic pupillary denervation in diabetic autonomic neuropathy . 
parathyroid autotransplantation during thyroid surgery . permanent hypoparathyroidism is one of the most distressing complications of thyroid surgery . the incidence of this iatrogenic complication varies between 3 and 25 percent among patients undergoing total thyroidectomy . parathyroid injury may be caused by inadvertent removal of the parathyroids , ligation of the blood supply , or destruction secondary to capsular hematoma . attention to such technical details as identification of the parathyroids , dissection close to the thyroid gland , preservation of the blood supply to the parathyroids , and avoiding manipulation of parathyroids reduces the incidence of temporary and permanent hypoparathyrodism . however , if the parathyroids are injured , the best method of preserving their function is by autotransplantation . over the past 7 years we have performed 250 thyroidectomies . an attempt was made to identify and preserve parathyroid gland in each case . even during lobectomy procedures , the ipsilateral parathyroids were identified and preserved . whenever any of the parathyroids was devascularized or separated from the surrounding structures , it was autotransplanted into the sternomastoid muscle . the sternomastoid was chosen for autotransplantation rather than forearm muscles to avoid an added incision and because selective measurement of parathormone is not essential in this group of patients . prior to autotransplantation , confirmation of the nature of the tissue was made by frozen section of a small portion of the parathyroid gland . parathyroid autotransplantation was performed in 15 instances , even when only one parathyroid was injured . only one member of this group of 15 patients developed temporary hypoparathyroidism , which disappeared after 4 weeks of calcium supplementation . the remaining patients had an uncomplicated recovery . autotransplantation of the parathyroid glands should be performed whenever the parathyroid is devascularized or damaged by retraction or hematoma . it is essential for every thyroid surgeon to be familiar with the technique of parathyroid autotransplantation . 
lymphoedema/hypercalcaemia syndrome mediated by parathyroid-hormone-related protein . a 24-year-old woman presented with a cryptogenic , hypercalcaemic syndrome with metastatic pulmonary calcification and leg and massive breast enlargement and bilateral chylous pleural effusions compatible with a generalised lymphatic abnormality . the patient 's serum parathyroid hormone-related protein concentration was very high at a time when she was significantly hypercalcaemic , implying that the hypercalcaemia was mediated by this protein . 
the acromegalic rosary palpable enlargement of the costochondral junctions on the anterolateral chest wall was detected in 26 of 27 patients with acromegaly . in a further study three doctors wearing eyemasks examined a further 13 acromegalic patients and 12 control subjects ; costochondral enlargement was detected with a sensitivity of 77 % and specificity of 86 % . it was not found in normal subjects in the absence of previous chest injury . the presence and extent of costochondral enlargement was unrelated to the duration of active or cured acromegaly , the initial or present growth hormone concentrations , or other clinical features of growth hormone excess . costochondral enlargement is a common clinical sign in acromegaly and can serve as a biological marker of previous or current growth hormone excess . 
predictors of long-term cardiac survival in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . the predictors of 5-year cardiac survival in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease ( cad ) undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) were analyzed in a series of 637 consecutive patients . the average age was 59 + / - 11 years in 472 men and 165 women . diabetes mellitus , previous myocardial infarction and unstable angina were present in 119 ( 19 % ) , 261 ( 41 % ) and 305 ( 47 % ) patients , respectively . angiographically , 460 patients had 2-vessel and 177 patients had 3-vessel cad . the left ventricular contraction score was greater than or equal to 12 in 55 patients . angiographic success ( less than 50 % residual stenosis ) was achieved in 85 % of the 1,343 narrowings and clinical success was obtained in 526 ( 83 % ) of the 637 patients . complete revascularization was obtained in 177 ( 34 % ) of 526 successful patients . procedure-related complications resulted in death in 9 patients ( 1.4 % ) , in q-wave myocardial infarction only in 6 patients ( 0.9 % ) and in emergency bypass surgery in 44 patients ( 6.9 % ) ( of whom 10 had q-wave myocardial infarction ) . follow-up for greater than or equal to 1 year and up to 6 years after ptca was obtained in 608 ( 95 % ) of the 637 patients . to determine the predictors of 5-year cardiac survival , 28 clinical , angiographic and procedural variables were analyzed by cox proportional-hazards regression . the estimated 5-year survival after ptca was 88 + / - 2 % in successful patients and 77 + / - 5 % in patients in whom ptca was unsuccessful ( p less than 0.001 ) . when clinical success was forced into the cox regression , the left ventricular contraction score of greater than or equal to 12 , diabetes mellitus and age greater than or equal to 65 years showed additional adverse effects on survival . 
hyponatremia and hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism in a critically ill patient : combination of insensitivity to angiotensin ii and tubular unresponsiveness to mineralocorticoid . a 62-year-old man with pneumonia and left flank pain had a clinical syndrome of hyponatremia , hypotension , dehydration , and high urinary sodium excretion in the presence of a normal glomerular filtration rate . the plasma level of antidiuretic hormone was relatively high despite decreased serum osmolality . thyroid function and excretion of glucocorticoid and sex steroids were normal . the serum aldosterone level was very low despite elevated plasma renin activity . angiotensin ii failed to stimulate any secretion of aldosterone , despite the occurrence of a progressive rise in blood pressure . on the other hand , rapid acth administration increased both serum aldosterone and cortisol . the patient showed no effective response to increased salt intake , but large doses of mineralocorticoid resulted in a normal serum sodium level without dehydration . subsequently , he suffered cardiac arrest secondary to ventricular tachycardia . postmortem examination showed well differentiated adenocarcinoma in the left pleura and an intact , histologically normal adrenal zona glomerulosa and kidney . this is the first reported case of a critically ill patient with hyponatremia caused by hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism possibly due to angiotensin ii insensitivity and tubular unresponsiveness to mineralocorticoid . 
intraperitoneal phosphate administration in hungry bone syndrome . hypophosphatemia complicating parathyroidectomy for secondary hyperparathyroidism in renal failure is usually corrected by the oral or intravenous routes . we present a case in which those methods of treatment were not possible , and the phosphate was administered intraperitoneally . phosphate was added as one molar sodium diphosphate solution to the dialysis fluid . in our case the procedure was well tolerated , phosphate blood levels were rapidly corrected , no alterations in calcium , magnesium or other parameters were detected and the patient was discharged in good condition . in selected cases of hungry bone syndrome after parathyroidectomy , intraperitoneal phosphate can be used safely . 
epidermal growth factor induces the functional expression of dopamine receptors in the gh3 cell line . gh3 cells are a clonal strain from a rat pituitary tumor that synthesizes and secretes both prl and gh . the peculiarity of these cells is that they do not express receptors for dopamine ; thus the hormone release is insensitive to the inhibitory effect of dopamine and d2 receptor agonists . exposure of gh3 cells to epidermal growth factor for 4 consecutive days markedly altered the cell morphology , from a spherical appearance to an elongated flattened shape , and increased the cell size . these morphological changes were accompanied by the functional expression of d2 dopamine receptors as shown by the presence of a specific , saturable , and stereoselective high affinity binding for [ 3h ] spiroperidol in epidermal growth factor-treated cells and by the fact that the selective d2 agonist quinpirole recovered the property to inhibit prl secretion in the cell cultures exposed to the neurotrophic factor . the effect of egf on the functional expression of d2 receptors was dose dependent ( ec50 = 8 pm ) and reversible . these data suggest that egf elicits major effects on the expression of specific genes leading to the differentiation of gh3 cells into lactotroph-like cells endowed with dopamine d2 receptors . 
the gonadotropin-releasing hormone associated peptide reduces calcium entry in prolactin-secreting cells . the precursor molecule to the gnrh contains a peptide named gnrh-associated peptide ( gap ) with prl-inhibiting properties . in this work , we have studied the electrophysiological properties and responses to gap of three different types of prl-secreting cells : 1 ) the rat tumor cell line gh3 , 2 ) normal rat pituitary cells in primary culture , and 3 ) human prl-secreting adenoma cells . using different but complementary techniques we show that gap reduces intracellular ca + + levels , [ ca + + ] i , and inhibits ca + + transients in these cells . this reduction of [ ca + + ] i results from coordinate actions of gap on k + and ca + + conductances and may explain the inhibitory effect of gap on hormonal secretion by prl-secreting cells . 
thyroid hormones and 5 ' - deiodinase in the rat fetus late in gestation : effects of maternal hypothyroidism . having previously observed that t4 and t3 levels in fetal rat brain and brown adipose tissue are clearly higher than expected from their low circulating levels , we have now studied thyroid hormone concentrations and 5 ' - deiodinase activities ( 5 'd ) in several other rat fetal tissues during the last 6 days of gestation ( dg ) , namely 17-22 dg . this period comprises the onset of fetal thyroid activity . total thyroidal t4 and t3 contents increased 100 - and 400-fold , respectively ; t4 concentrations increased 8 - to 10-fold in plasma , carcass , lung , and liver , and t3 increased 4.5 - to 9-fold , except in plasma and liver , where t3 levels increased less than 2-fold in plasma and 3-fold in liver . during this developmental period 5 'd activity increased 5 - and 10-fold in fetal liver and lung , respectively . in fetuses from hypothyroid [ thyroidectomized ( t ) ] dams , body weight was lower than in fetuses from normal dams . total thyroidal t4 and t3 contents were initially the same , but decreased markedly in fetuses from t dams by the end of gestation . at the earliest fetal ages studied ( 17-18 dg ) t4 and t3 concentrations were lower in carcass , liver , lung , and brain , although near term there were no consistent differences between the fetal tissues from t and control dams , probably because of compensatory stimulation of thyroidal secretion . liver 5 'd was decreased by 50 % throughout gestation , and lung 5 'd activities were lower by the end of gestation . thyroid hormones in placentas from t dams were very low , but increased by the end of gestation because of the contribution by the fetal thyroid . present results describe the ontogenic profiles for thyroid hormone concentrations and 5 'd activities during late fetal development ; active regulatory mechanisms are already present at this age . it has been frequently stated that rat fetuses near term are deficient in thyroid hormones , and that their thyroid hormone economy is independent of maternal thyroid status , but present results show that near term , t4 and t3 concentrations in several tissues reach levels that are 50 % or more of those described for adult animals , and that fetal thyroid function is influenced by maternal hypothyroidism . 
single cell levels of hypothalamic messenger ribonucleic acid encoding luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in intact , castrated , and hyperprolactinemic male rats . we have examined the changes that occur in neuronal expression of lhrh mrna in response to castration and hyperprolactinemia in male rats . single cell levels of lhrh mrna were determined by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry using an 35s-labeled synthetic 48-base oligodeoxynucleotide probe and quantitative autoradiography . nine days postcastration , a 10.4-fold increase in mean plasma lh titers was observed which was associated with significantly increased lhrh mrna in rostral hypothalamic neuronal cell bodies . both increases were blocked in rats rendered hyperprolactinemic by the presence of the 7315a prl-secreting pituitary tumor . the location and number of neurons expressing lhrh mrna were unchanged , indicating that these differences were attributable to amounts of mrna expressed per neuron . experimental differences occurred in lhrh perikarya situated throughout the rostral hypothalamus from the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis to the caudal extent of the medial preoptic nucleus . these results suggest that gonadal steroids and prl are involved , either directly or indirectly , in regulating the biosynthesis of lhrh in the rostral hypothalamus . 
mesenteric blood flow in patients with diabetic neuropathy . we examined flow velocities in the superior mesenteric artery and celiac artery in normal controls ( group c , n = 11 ) , diabetic patients ( group d , n = 8 ) , and diabetic patients with clinically evident autonomic neuropathy ( group dn , n = 6 ) to further define the usefulness of duplex examination in the evaluation of the mesenteric circulation in normal and disease states . by use of a 3 mhz duplex scanner , peak systolic velocity , peak diastolic forward velocity , end-diastolic forward velocity , and peak diastolic reverse velocity were measured in centimeters per second before and after a standardized meal . the vessels ' diameters in centimeters were also measured . after the meal peak diastolic reverse velocity disappeared in all patients . the average vessel diameter in the superior mesenteric artery ( 0.7 cm ) and celiac artery ( 0.8 cm ) did not change . flow velocities in the celiac artery were not significantly altered by the meal . in the control group , peak systolic velocity in the superior mesenteric artery increased 38 % , peak diastolic forward velocity rose 66 % , and end-diastolic forward velocity increased by 70 % . in the diabetic nonneuropathic group the changes were 15 % , 98 % , and 100 % , respectively . these changes were statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . on the other hand , the patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy presenting a picture of gastroparesis did not exhibit the expected increases in postprandial velocities . moreover , this alteration in blood flow velocity , although similar to that encountered in patients with intestinal angina , did not appear to be due to occlusive arterial disease on the basis of clinical examination and b-mode scanning . 
thyroid disease and pregnancy . thyroid disease is common in younger women and may be a factor in reproductive dysfunction . this probably only applies to severe cases of hyper - or hypothyroidism . once adequately treated , neither of these disorders significantly impacts on fertility . the key is to recognize and to treat thyroid disorders in the reproductive-age woman before conception . thyroxine therapy and even antithyroid drug therapy should be continued during pregnancy as necessary . pregnancy is a euthyroid state that is normally maintained by complex changes in thyroid physiology . the fetal and neonatal hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid system develops independently , but it may be influenced by thyroid disease in the mother . early pregnancy is characterized by an increase in maternal t4 secretion stimulated by hcg and an increase in tbg , resulting in the elevated total serum t4 in pregnancy . the debate continues as to whether maternal t4 is important in early or late fetal brain development . if so , the physiologic changes in thyroid hormone secretion and transport in early pregnancy would help to ensure that a sufficient amount of thyroid hormone was available . there is new evidence in human subjects that substantial maternal t4 can cross the placenta during pregnancy , and this may be particularly important when fetal thyroid function is compromised as a result of congenital hypothyroidism . maternal and fetal/neonatal outcomes in pregnancy are adversely affected if severe hypothyroidism is undiagnosed or inadequately treated . thyroid function tests should be obtained during gestation in women taking t4 and appropriate dose adjustments should be made for tsh levels outside a normal range . the tsh-receptor blocking antibodies from the mother are a recognized cause of congenital hypothyroidism in the fetus and neonate that can be permanent or transient . if neonatal hypothyroidism is detected through neonatal screening programs , and prompt and adequate t4 replacement therapy is instituted as soon as possible following delivery , subsequent growth and development are usually normal . paradoxically , pregnancy often has a favorable effect on the course of maternal hashimoto 's disease , although there is the risk of relapse postpartum . pathophysiologic conditions of hcg secretion such as gestational trophoblastic disease and hyperemesis gravidarum may present as thyrotoxicosis in pregnancy , but the main cause of this syndrome is graves ' disease . the mainstay of treatment is antithyroid drugs and either propylthiouracil or methimazole may be used safely . subtotal thyroidectomy , after medical control , is the alternative treatment , but radioiodine ablation is contraindicated . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
thyroid disease in the elderly . as people in our society live longer , it is important for clinicians to know more about problems commonly seen in the elderly . thyroid problems are especially important to understand because they do occur with rather high frequency , and their mode of presentation is frequently different from those seen in younger patients . the thyroid gland does undergo certain age-related changes in anatomy and physiology , but overall the thyroid is able to produce a normal amount of thyroid hormone throughout the years . hypothyroidism is frequently difficult to diagnose in the elderly , because many of the symptoms of hypothyroidism can easily be confused with symptoms of aging . when hypothyroidism is looked for in large population studies of elderly patients , the incidence varies from 1 % to as high as 17 % , with women being more commonly affected than men , and subclinical hypothyroidism being more common than overt hypothyroidism . virtually all cases of hypothyroidism are due to autoimmune thyroid disease , with most patients having measurable titers of thyroid autoantibodies . the therapy of hypothyroidism is done with extreme caution , as older patients are frequently very sensitive to the effects of excess thyroid hormone . in addition , the metabolism of thyroid hormone slows down with age , making the full replacement dose much less in an older patient than in a younger one . hyperthyroidism is also quite common , occurring in from 0.5 % to 3 % of all elderly patients . the presentation is frequently atypical , as patients often lack the hyperdynamic symptomatology and instead have a more sedated , apathetic presentation . weight loss and cardiac symptoms frequently predominate , and the presence of a goiter is frequently absent , making the diagnosis less obvious than in a younger patient . therapy is usually radioactive iodine , after an adequate course of antithyroid drugs , to render the patient euthyroid . thyroid nodules do occur with increasing frequency in the elderly , but most of them are not malignant . fine-needle aspiration for cytology is very helpful in determining which patients should be referred for surgery . well-differentiated cancers do predominate , but their course is frequently less predictable than in younger patients . lymphoma of the thyroid and undifferentiated cancers do occur with increasing frequency in the elderly . multinodular goiter , usually of longstanding , is frequently seen in elderly patients , and thyroid hormone suppressive therapy not only is not indicated but may contribute to exogenous hyperthyroidism . 
iodine and thyroid disease . iodine is a requisite substrate for the synthesis of the thyroid hormones , the minimum daily requirement being about 50 micrograms . an autoregulatory mechanism within the thyroid serves as the first line of defense against fluctuations in the supply of iodine and also permits escape from the inhibition of hormone synthesis that a very large quantity of iodine induces ( wolff-chaikoff effect and escape therefrom ) . environmental iodine deficiency continues to be a significant public health problem worldwide , compounded in some geographic regions by the presence of other goitrogens in some staple foods . the pathologic consequences of severe iodine deficiency include endemic goiter , endemic cretinism , increased fetal and infant mortality , and an increased prevalence in the community of cognitive and neuromotor disabilities . the implementation of an iodization program prevents endemic cretinism and reduces the frequency of the other pathologic consequences of iodine deficiency . iodine excess results principally from the use of iodine-containing medicinal preparations or radiographic contrast media . the pathologic consequences of iodine excess will ensue only when thyroid autoregulation is defective , in that escape from the wolff-chaikoff effect can not occur , or when autoregulation is absent . defective autoregulation characterizes the fetal and neonatal thyroid , hashimoto 's thyroiditis , radioiodine or surgically treated graves ' hyperthyroidism , the thyroid of patients with cystic fibrosis , and the thyroid that has been exposed to weak inhibitors of the organic binding of iodine . in these circumstances , the provision of excess iodine may lead to iodide goiter with or without hypothyroidism . absent autoregulation may be a feature of longstanding multinodular goiter , and the provision of excess iodine in this circumstance may induce thyrotoxicosis ( jod-basedow disease ) . the pathologic consequences of iodine excess will resolve when the source of iodine has been dissipated . in addition to its role in reversing iodine deficiency , iodine is used as adjunctive therapy for hyperthyroidism . by inhibiting the proteolytic release of iodothyronines from thyroglobulin , it induces a prompt slowing of thyroid hormone secretion . this effect is exploited in the treatment of thyrotoxic crisis or severe thyrocardiac disease . iodine also reduces thyroid cellularity and vascularity and therefore is used in the preparation of the patient for thyroidectomy . finally , by exploiting the failure of escape from the wolff-chaikoff effect , iodine may also be used in the early management of radioiodine-treated graves ' hyperthyroidism . 
thyroid crises . in the setting of characteristic features of thyrotoxicosis , the timely diagnosis and aggressive management of thyroid storm should result in a successful outcome . however , severe storm may lead to irreversible cardiovascular collapse , especially in the older patient who may have atypical features of thyrotoxicosis . the fundamental approach is prompt and optimal treatment in the emergency department once the presenting clinical features suggest its presence . delay in the introduction of therapy while awaiting laboratory confirmation may result in further decompensation and death . the prevention of myxedema coma entails paying special attention to certain high-risk patient groups . these groups include older women with a history of hashimoto 's thyroiditis , or previous irradiation or thyroid surgery for hyperthyroidism . inform such patients of the symptoms and signs of hypothyroidism , and perform annual thyroid function tests , such as a serum tsh , in order to provide early , adequate treatment once the test becomes positive . 
the problem of the nodular goiter . nodular goiter is a worldwide problem involving millions of persons . endemic goiter , and associated cretinism , is totally preventable by ensuring an adequate dietary iodine intake and eliminating malnutrition and dietary goitrogens . therapy , on the other hand , is difficult in that the goiters often do not regress and the cretinoid changes are irreversible . nonendemic goiter due to autoimmune thyroid disease , genetic defects in thyroid hormone biosynthesis , and environmental goitrogens or neoplasia is not usually preventable . the usual therapy , involving tsh suppression by administration of l-thyroxine orally , will frequently bring about regression of early , diffuse goiters but is often ineffective in bringing about regression of large , multinodular goiters . in these patients , surgical removal of the goiter may be necessary for alleviation of obstructive symptoms . further research is needed to elucidate the factors involved in the development of these multinodular goiters and to control the autocrine and paracrine factors involved in nodule growth . 
the effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests . serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation , which so often accompany systemic illness , have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy . we have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests : a decreased serum t3 concentration ; normal or , in critically ill patients , a low total serum t4 level ; and a normal free t4 concentration . another , less frequent pattern ( high total and free t4 with a normal serum t3 ) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient . with the recent advent of sensitive assays for tsh and better methods for serum free t4 , it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients ; the vast majority are euthyroid . certain drugs confound the picture . the most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids , both of which suppress tsh secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism . other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices ( e.g. , amiodarone ) . knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness , starvation , and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease . 
advances in molecular biology . potential impact on diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the thyroid . advances in molecular biology research continue to have a major impact on clinical medicine . these advances have provided a means to produce proteins previously available in limited supply and allow for the production of novel proteins that are improved agonists or else antagonists with greater specificity for therapeutic targets . newer drug delivery systems should facilitate delivery of these proteins . by combining the capabilities to produce drug targets in acceptable quantities with improved methods for determining the three-dimensional structures of these targets , novel organic therapeutic molecules that act on these targets will be designed . gene transfer therapy using genes that express important proteins or that encode " antisense " rnas that inhibit the translation of specific mrnas will soon become a reality . the use of rflps and pcr methodologies promises increased means to diagnose specific genetic diseases and infections . most importantly , molecular biology is helping to understand the mechanisms of disease such that novel diagnostic and therapeutic approaches can be described . these advances are providing an understanding of the mechanisms involved in cancers of the thyroid gland . they have already led to an enhanced understanding of ( 1 ) the growth factors that control proliferation of the thyroid gland , ( 2 ) the potential steps in thyroid nodule and neoplasia development , ( 3 ) particular mutations that may occur as thyroid cancers develop , ( 4 ) oncogenes that are expressed in thyroid cancers , and ( 5 ) the genetic defects that are responsible for thyroid gland malignancies in the multiple endocrine neoplasia ( men ) syndromes . with the latter , the rflp technology has already provided an enhanced means to diagnose the disorder . with further progress , enhanced means for diagnosis and treatment should emerge . molecular biology techniques are contributing to an increased understanding of the mechanisms of development of autoimmune thyroid disease as with graves ' disease and hashimoto 's thyroiditis . the potential role of infections , histocompatibility antigens , thyroid gland and extraglandular antigens , immune modulators , subpopulations of t-cells such as suppressor and helper cells , other cells involved in immune responses , and a combination of influences of several different functions on the thyroid gland are being defined . this knowledge should soon suggest improved means for diagnosis and treatment . understanding of the function of the thyroid hormone receptors should have clinical importance . this knowledge suggests a means to develop thyroid hormone antagonists that may be used to more rapidly ameliorate the effects of hyperthyroidism and could be useful in nonthyroidal disorders such as cardiac arrhythmias . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
thyroiditis . acute , subacute , and chronic . inflammatory diseases of the thyroid are collectively the commonest thyroid disorder . individually , they range from the rare case of acute bacterial thyroiditis to the other end of the spectrum , the even rarer riedel 's thyroiditis . relatively common thyroid inflammatory diseases include the subacute thyroiditis syndromes . of particular interest to endocrinologists is that both subacute granulomatous ( painful ) thyroiditis and subacute lymphocytic ( painless ) thyroiditis are very similar in terms of clinical course , although most likely have different etiologies . nevertheless , their similarities suggest the possibility that there may be etiologic heterogeneity for the syndromes . from a clinical standpoint , it is essential to differentiate subacute painless thyroiditis from graves ' disease , because these two disorders also may mimic each other , yet only graves ' disease requires specific therapy . chronic lymphocytic ( hashimoto 's ) thyroiditis , the commonest of the thyroiditides , presents with goiter and either hyperthyroidism ( uncommon ) , hypothyroidism ( common ) , or euthyroidism ( most common ) . when l-t4 therapy is used in the treatment of hashimoto 's thyroiditis , the physician must be alert to the possibility of excess thyroid hormone administration . sensitive tsh measurements help to avoid this therapeutic pitfall . 
normal and abnormal pituitary glands : gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging . dynamic magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging with a 1.5-t superconductive unit was used in the evaluation of nine normal pituitary glands and 10 pituitary adenomas , including four microadenomas and six macroadenomas . seven to 10 images were obtained every 20-30 seconds with use of the spin-echo technique after rapid injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine . the earliest contrast material enhancement of normal structures was seen in the infundibulum and posterior lobe of the pituitary gland at 20 seconds , followed by gradual contrast material enhancement of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland from the junction of the infundibulum to the peripheral portion of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland within 80 seconds after gadopentetate dimeglumine injection . the peak enhancement of pituitary adenomas occurred at 60-200 seconds , usually after the most marked enhancement of the normal pituitary gland . microadenomas are best visualized at earlier phases of gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced dynamic imaging , with signal intensity lower than that seen on images of normal pituitary glands . 
inheritance of proliferative breast disease in breast cancer kindreds . previous studies have emphasized that genetic susceptibility to breast cancer is rare and is expressed primarily as premenopausal breast cancer , bilateral breast cancer , or both . proliferative breast disease ( pbd ) is a significant risk factor for the development of breast cancer and appears to be a precursor lesion . pbd and breast cancer were studied in 103 women from 20 kindreds that were selected for the presence of two first degree relatives with breast cancer and in 31 control women . physical examination , screening mammography , and four-quadrant fine-needle breast aspirates were performed . cytologic analysis of breast aspirates revealed pbd in 35 % of clinically normal female first degree relatives of breast cancer cases and in 13 % of controls . genetic analysis suggests that genetic susceptibility causes both pbd and breast cancer in these kindreds . this study supports the hypothesis that this susceptibility is responsible for a considerable portion of breast cancer , including unilateral and postmenopausal breast cancer . 
neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ampulla of vater . a case of absence of somatostatin in a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide - , bombesin - , and cholecystokinin-producing tumor . a 31-year-old patient with a clinical picture of obstructive jaundice had surgical treatment , and a primary carcinoid of the ampulla of vater ( va ) was found . the tumor was studied with light microscopy , immunohistochemistry , and electron microscopy . the neoplasm had histopathologic and cytopathologic features similar to those encountered in typical neuroendocrine neoplasms . it is interesting that immunohistochemical techniques disclosed the presence of vasointestinal polypeptide , cholecystokinin , and bombesin ; however , unlike most neuroendocrine neoplasms arising in va , no somatostatin-immunoreactive cells were found . 
null cell adenoma of the pituitary with features of plurihormonality and plurimorphous differentiation . the case of a 35-year-old man with pituitary macroadenoma who was complaining of reduced sexual activity is presented . histologic examination showed a chromophobic adenoma corresponding mainly to a null cell adenoma at the ultrastructural level . focal plurihormonality and plurimorphous differentiation of adenoma cells were demonstrated by immunohistochemical and electron-microscopic studies . it is suggested that adenomatous null cells represent pluripotent progenitor cells capable of transforming to different hormone-producing cell types . the factors accounting for differentiating to various cell populations have yet to be elucidated . 
multiple adenomas of the human pituitary . a retrospective autopsy study with clinical implications . in a review of autopsy material from two centers , 20 pituitary glands were found containing multiple adenomas . in total , 44 adenomas were identified histologically ; 16 glands contained double tumors and in four glands triple adenomas were found . size was measured in 30 tumors , all of which were microadenomas . thirty-four adenomas were located in the lateral wings and 10 lay in the median wedge . forty-one tumors were chromophobic and three were basophilic . immunocytochemical analysis of the 44 tumors demonstrated the presence of prolactin in 11 , adrenocorticotropic hormone in three , growth hormone in one , and alpha-subunit as well as follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone in one . of the 20 patients studied , there were 11 men and nine women , with an average age of 69 years . all patients died from various nonendocrine causes . with the exception of one patient who appeared mildly acromegalic , no correlation was observed between pituitary morphology and clinical data . this study found a 10.4 % frequency of adenomas in pituitaries studied randomly at autopsy . multiple tumors were encountered in 0.9 % of cases . despite its low frequency , adenoma multiplicity may underlie surgical failure in cases in which one adenoma is removed and the other is left behind . 
long-term follow-up in toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodules treated with radioactive iodine the long-term effects of radioiodine treatment on thyroid function in patients with a toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodule were evaluated . fifty-two patients received a therapeutic dose of 20 mci of iodine-131 ( 131i ) . duration of follow-up was 10 + / - 4 yr . follow-up data included a biochemical evaluation of thyroid function . the failure rate ( recurrent hyperthyroidism ) was 2 % . the incidence of hypothyroidism was 6 % and was not related to the dose per gram of nodular tissue . oral administration of 20 mci of radioiodine is a simple and highly effective method for the treatment of patients with a toxic autonomous thyroid nodule . the risk of development of hypothyroidism is low if extranodular uptake of 131i is prevented . this can be achieved by not treating euthyroid patients , by no longer using injections of exogenous thyroid stimulating hormone in the diagnostic work-up of the patients and by always performing radioiodine imaging shortly before treatment . 
observations on the pathophysiology of nelson 's syndrome : a report of three cases . nelson 's syndrome is generally regarded as an unusual sequela of primary bilateral adrenalectomy when performed for cushing 's disease . it is classically defined by cutaneous hyperpigmentation , considerably elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone ( acth ) levels , and an enlarged sella turcica . in this report , we present three cases initially treated by transsphenoidal sellar exploration for cushing 's disease . in two of these cases , remission of hypercortisolism did not occur after the initial pituitary exploration . a microadenomectomy was performed in one case and , in the other , no microadenoma was found . in both , nelson 's syndrome occurred after adrenalectomy . a second transsphenoidal operation and radiotherapy were required to control tumor growth . in another case , transsphenoidal adenomectomy of an acth-secreting tumor initially led to a remission of hypercortisolism for 4 years , but recurrent cushing 's disease necessitated adrenalectomy , and again nelson 's syndrome occurred . the documentation of a pre-existing acth-secreting basophilic pituitary microadenoma before adrenalectomy , as seen in two of our cases , has not been previously reported , and these observations of " non-classical " courses have major implications for the pathophysiology of nelson 's syndrome . 
" moustache " appearance in craniopharyngiomas : unique magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic findings of perifocal edema . this report describes two cases of craniopharyngioma with perifocal edema . in both patients , computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) revealed that the tumors occupied the suprasellar cistern , invaginated the floor of the 3rd ventricle and were tightly adherent to the ventricular walls . the intraventricular portions of the tumors were cystic , containing protein-rich fluid as suggested by mri and confirmed by operative findings . there was perifocal edema in the hypothalamus adjacent to the intraventricular tumor , the optic tracts , and the posterior limbs of the internal capsules , resembling the shape of a moustache on axial computed tomographic and mri scans . the perifocal edema subsided after treatment of the intraventricular tumor by surgical resection or radiation therapy . the " moustache " appearance seems a unique , characteristic feature of perifocal edema , which is observed infrequently with certain craniopharyngiomas . 
identification of a cdna encoding a second putative prohormone convertase related to pc2 in att20 cells and islets of langerhans . pc2 and furin are two recently identified members of a class of mammalian proteins homologous to the yeast precursor processing protease kex2 and the bacterial subtillisins . we have used the polymerase chain reaction to identify and clone a cdna ( pc3 ) from the mouse att20 anterior pituitary cell line that represents an additional member of this growing family of mammalian proteases . pc3 encodes a 753-residue protein that begins with a signal peptide and contains a 292-residue domain closely related to the catalytic modules of pc2 , furin , and kex2 . within this region 58 % , 65 % , and 50 % of the amino acids of pc3 are identical to those of the aligned pc2 , furin , and kex2 sequences , respectively , and the catalytically important asp , his , and ser residues are all conserved . on northern blots , pc3 hybridizes to two transcripts of 3 and 5 kilobases . tissue distribution studies indicate that both pc2 and pc3 are expressed in a variety of neuroendocrine tissues , including pancreatic islets and brain , but are not expressed in liver , kidney , skeletal muscle , and spleen . the high degree of similarity of pc3 , pc2 , and furin suggests that they are all members of a superfamily of mammalian proteases that are involved in the processing of prohormones and/or other protein precursors . in contrast to furin , pc3 , like pc2 , lacks a hydrophobic transmembrane anchor , but it has a potential c-terminal amphipathic helical segment similar to the putative membrane anchor of carboxypeptidase h. these and other differences suggest that these proteins carry out compartmentalized proteolysis within cells , such as processing within regulated versus constitutive secretory pathways . 
parathyroidectomy in chronic renal failure : a nine-year follow-up study . seventy-three patients with chronic renal failure who underwent parathyroidectomy between march 1978 and april 1987 were reviewed . thirty-four patients had undergone sub-total parathyroidectomy , and 39 patients had undergone total parathyroidectomy with parathyroid autograft into the forearm . eight patients showed persistent hyperparathyroidism requiring a second surgical procedure . in all other patients there was highly statistical improvement in parathyroid hormone , total calcium , ionized calcium , alkaline phosphatase and a significant reduction in calcium x phosphate product . histological evidence of osteitis fibrosa was present in 21 of 22 patients before surgery . postoperatively , four showed complete resolution and improvement . three patients developed histological evidence of osteomalacia during the study period . only four of the 39 patients who underwent total parathyroidectomy with autograft had true recurrent hyperparathyroidism and only two of the 34 patients who underwent sub-total parathyroidectomy had recurrent disease , indicating that there is little to choose between the two techniques in the control of secondary hyperparathyroidism and its subsequent recurrence . in one patient with recurrence of hyperparathyroidism from a forearm parathyroid graft the histological picture was different from that of normal hyperplastic parathyroid tissue . although it is probable that abnormal parathyroid tissue had been implanted there was no evidence of invasive growth into the forearm muscle . the most striking feature of long term follow-up was the difference in calcium x phosphate product in patients in whom vascular calcification increased compared to those patients with no change or regression of calcification . mean calcium phosphate product in those patients with progressive vascular calcification was 4.93 for small and medium size vessels and 5.38 for large vessels compared to 4.10 for small and medium vessels and 4.09 for large vessels . in the former case the serum phosphate was 2.00 and 2.17 as compared to 1.75 or 1.73 , suggesting that the aim in patients with end stage renal failure maintained by dialysis should be to control the serum phosphate concentration to 1.8 mmol or less and the calcium x phosphate product to less than 4.2 . 
a prospective study of double diagnosis of nonpalpable lesions of the breast . approximately three-fourths of open biopsies of the breast performed for mammographically detected suspicious lesions are shown histologically to be benign . under the narrow conditions described herein , stereotaxic fine-needle aspiration ( fna ) can identify these lesions with an accuracy of more than 90 per cent and a false-negative rate of 5 per cent . in an effort to reduce this failure rate , the mammographic appearance and stereotaxic fna results of these lesions each were given scores on a scale of zero ( benign ) to five ( malignant ) , to derive an over-all risk score prospectively applied to 264 suspicious occult lesions of the breast prior to open , biopsy . while all 264 lesions could be assigned a mammographic score , adequate tissue for assignment of a cytologic score could be obtained from 150 lesions . of the 150 evaluable lesions , 53 were malignant and 97 were benign , historically . with a total score of two as the threshold for open biopsy , 21 of 150 ( 14 per cent ) were proved to be benign , with no false-negative findings . if the total threshold score mandating an open biopsy was raised to four , the comparable figures were 61 of 150 ( 40 per cent ) benign lesions and two false-negative instances of carcinoma in situ . provided adequate tissue is aspirated for cytologic examination , we conclude that this algorithm has practical value in the management of nonpalpable lesions of the breast in that it can reliably identify a fraction of the benign lesions and spare these patients an operation . 
risk for postoperative congestive heart failure . to identify predictors of postoperative congestive heart failure ( chf ) , a high-risk population , mainly hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective general operations , was studied . of the 254 patients , 6 per cent had postoperative chf . among patients with preoperative cardiac disease ( that is , previous myocardial infarction , valvular disease or chf ) , 17 per cent had postoperative chf ; in contrast with less than 1 per cent of those without cardiac disease ( p less than 0.001 ) . patients with diabetes were also at high risk ( 12 versus 2 per cent , p less than 0.005 ) , particularly those with cardiac disease . patients who had equal to or greater than 40 millimeters of mercury increases or decreases intraoperatively in mean arterial pressure in relation to preoperative baseline had increased postoperative failure rates ( p less than 0.02 ) . of note , postoperative failure rates were highest among patients with less than 500 milliliters per hour of net intake ( input and output ) ( p less than 0.03 ) . risk for postoperative chf was restricted to patients with preoperative symptomatic cardiac disease and was especially high if patients also had diabetes . intraoperative fluctuations in mean arterial pressure increased the probability of postoperative failure , while the intraoperative administration of higher net volumes of fluid was associated with decreased risk . 
effects of pentoxifylline on proteinuria in normotensive patients with diabetes mellitus . in 1985 , investigators reported that four months of pentoxifylline therapy resulted in a significant decrease in proteinuria ( 46 percent reduction ) and plasma fibrinogen concentrations ( 18 percent reduction ) in patients with diabetes . our study evaluated four normotensive patients with diabetes and documented proteinuria who were treated with pentoxifylline 400 mg tid for four months . a consistent decrease in proteinuria ( as measured by the urine protein/creatinine ratio ) and plasma fibrinogen concentrations was not observed . therapy with pentoxifylline was discontinued after four months . 
managing the whole patient with hypertension : practical applications in a clinical setting . physicians are aware of the value of treating hypertension . complications such as stroke and congestive heart failure are less likely to occur in the well-controlled patient . in our quest to add coronary heart disease to this list , we must go beyond simple reduction of blood pressure . we must consider other risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia , cigarette smoking , diabetes mellitus , and family history . the presence of one or more of these may indicate a more aggressive treatment approach . similarly the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy , coronary disease , or renal disease may indicate specific pharmacotherapy . on the other hand , the low-risk patient with no other problems or conditions may be treated with only nonpharmacologic therapy such as weight loss , dietary sodium reduction , and/or alcohol restriction . every patient has a different constellation of findings . every patient should be treated individually . it is no longer sufficient just to lower blood pressure ; we need to manage the whole patient with hypertension ; keeping in mind that most antihypertensive agents are equally effective , the side effect profile is often the decisive factor in choosing an antihypertensive agent . 
adrenal insufficiency in the cancer patient : implications for the surgeon . aspects of acute and chronic adrenal insufficiency of interest to surgeons who treat cancer patients are reviewed . clinical features and the management of both primary and secondary types are considered with reference to classification , aetiology , diagnosis and treatment . specifically considered are the management of patients with addison 's disease and metastases . prompt recognition and treatment of adrenal insufficiency can avert potentially life-threatening situations . 
infrainguinal bypass surgery : factors determining late graft patency . the results of 373 infrainguinal bypass grafts , in a single centre , between 1980 and 1988 are reviewed . one hundred and thirty in situ vein ( isv ) , 47 reversed saphenous vein ( rsv ) , 118 polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) and 78 human umbilical vein ( huv ) grafts were used . the indications for surgery were disabling claudication in 25 per cent of patients and limb salvage in 75 per cent . in 36 per cent of operations the distal anastomosis was above the knee and in 64 per cent it was below the knee . overall 5-year patency rates and limb salvage rates respectively were , for isv ( 41 and 69 per cent ) , rsv ( 62 and 90 per cent ) , ptfe ( 31 and 67 per cent ) and huv ( 29 and 59 per cent ) . there was no significant difference in patency among these grafts at the above-knee level , but significant differences between vein and prosthetic grafts were evident below the knee ( p less than 0.001 ) . using a proportional hazards model the three factors that consistently correlated with late graft patency were graft type ( p less than 0.001 ) , site of distal anastomosis ( p less than 0.001 ) and distal run-off ( p less than 0.001 ) . overall , the results suggest that prosthetic grafts are a suitable alternative to autogenous vein when the distal anastomosis is above the knee , but vein should always be used , if available , below the knee joint . 
estimated burden of diabetes mellitus in manitoba according to health insurance claims : a pilot study . objective : to estimate the burden of diabetes mellitus in manitoba from 1980 to 1984 . design : review of the manitoba health services commission ( mhsc ) database . the validity of the mhsc data was established through two substudies : one involved self-reports from a survey of elderly manitobans , and the other involved people with confirmed diabetes enrolled in the provincial diabetes education program . subjects : sample of 100,000 people stratified by age , sex and mhsc health region : 50,000 were aged 25 to 64 years , and 50,000 were aged 65 or more . all mhsc claims containing the icd-9-cm code for diabetes mellitus or gestational diabetes were identified . main results : of the sample 7627 people were found to have a diagnosis of diabetes , the annual prevalence being 0.8 % among those 25 to 44 years of age , 3.5 % among those 45 to 64 and 7.6 % among those 65 or older . the annual incidence rate among those over 25 years of age was 7.8 per 1000 . of the 4556 pregnant women 25 to 44 years old 85 ( 1.9 % ) had diabetes ; 23 were believed to have gestational diabetes . conclusions : the incidence and prevalence rates were similar to those determined on the basis of self-reports in canadian and us national surveys . the use of an administrative database such as that of the mhsc will provide key information for planning health services for diabetic patients and will permit the monitoring of long-term trends in the incidence and prevalence of the disease . 
cardiac sympathetic tone in anaesthetized diabetics . to assess cardiac sympathetic nervous function in diabetics , the heart rates attained following a pharmacological dose of intravenous atropine , 23 micrograms.kg-1 , were studied under n2o , isoflurane anaesthesia in diabetics ( n = 21 ) and nondiabetics ( n = 30 ) . atropine-induced heart rate in diabetics was significantly lower than that in nondiabetics ( 95 + / - 14 ( sd ) bpm vs 109 + / - 12 bpm , p less than 0.001 ) and were closely related to preoperative orthostatic diastolic blood pressure change ( r = 0.60 , p less than 0.01 ) . there was some correlation between the atropine-induced heart rate and preoperative rr-variation in diabetics ( r = 0.50 , p less than 0.05 ) . the findings suggest that cardiac sympathetic function may also be impaired in diabetics with orthostatic hypotension . 
lifelong sequential changes in glucose tolerance and insulin secretion in genetically obese zucker rats ( fa/fa ) fed a diabetogenic diet . life-long sequential changes in glucose tolerance and insulin secretion were investigated in genetically obese zucker rats ( fa/fa ) fed a diabetogenic diet rich in lard and sucrose . comparisons were made with lean littermates ( fa / - ) receiving normal chow diet . at 3-month intervals , seven to nine lean and obese rats had two permanent venous catheters implanted , allowing stress - and pain-free sampling of blood before , during , and after substrate administration . intravenous glucose , iv arginine , and oral glucose tolerance were tested . the obese rats progressively developed hyperglycemia and severe hyperinsulinemia ; their basal glycemia reached 8.8 + / - 1.1 vs. 5.8 + / - 0.2 mmol/liter in the lean rats at 46 weeks of age ; respective insulinemia was 287.7 + / - 61.9 and 18.1 + / - 2.8 mu/liter ( mean + / - sd ) . in the obese rats a distinct loss in glucose tolerance was seen with progression of age in spite of rising stimulated insulin secretion , which suggests progressive development of insulin resistance without exhaustion of b-cell secretory capacity . absence of insulin deficiency was also suggested by immunohistochemical staining of pancreatic tissue specimens from obese rats , which showed large populations of insulin-containing cells . like the obese animals , lean rats exhibited a decrease in insulin sensitivity with age . relating basal individual glycemia and insulinemia , a rise by 1 mmol/liter in glycemia was associated with a 8.8-fold rise in basal insulinemia in lean rats , but only with a 1.8-fold increase in obese rats . similar correlations for stimulated glycemia and insulinemia suggest impaired glucose sensitivity of pancreatic b-cells in obese vs. lean rats . in conclusion , hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia in insulin-resistant obese zucker rats on a diabetogenic diet are not characterized by quantitatively deficient b-cell secretory capacity , but , rather , by impaired b-cell sensitivity to glucose with qualitatively intact regulation of glycemia and insulinemia at elevated plasma concentrations . 
binding and action of insulin-like growth factor i in pituitary tumor cells . insulin-like growth factor i ( igf-i ) , a target hormone mediating most of the growth effects of gh , suppresses gh gene expression in a feedback regulatory loop , which may be either endocrine or paracrine in nature . although igf-i has been shown to directly attenuate gh gene transcription , the relationship of igf-i binding and action in the somatotroph cell remains unclear . therefore , igf-i binding and action were compared in two different pituitary cell lines both secreting gh . recombinant human igf-i attenuated gh secretion in gc cells by up to 70 % after 48 h in a dose-dependent manner . surprisingly , igf-i failed to suppress gh secretion in gh3 cells , a clonally related pituitary cell line . binding studies showed that although the kd for igf-i was similar in both cell types , gc cells contain 3-fold more igf-i binding sites compared to gh3 cells , possibly explaining their resistance to igf-i action . nevertheless , both cell lines possessed abundant and similar binding sites for insulin . these results imply that the igf-i signal for gh gene regulation is receptor-mediated and directly correlated with the number of pituitary igf-i binding sites . availability of pituitary igf-i binding sites may therefore be important in determining the level of gh expression by the somatotroph . 
sexual dimorphism of pancreatic beta-cell degeneration in transgenic mice expressing an insulin-ras hybrid gene . the human h-ras oncogene induces cell degeneration and diabetes when expressed in pancreatic beta-cells in transgenic mice . the disease develops predominantly in male mice between 5-8 months of age . most transgenic female mice do not manifest this phenotype , even at much greater ages . however , ovariectomy induces female beta-cell degeneration similar to that in the males . in contrast , castration or the presence of the testicular feminization mutation do not alter the course of the disease in males . treatment of males and ovariectomized females with estrogen prevents the development of diabetes . these results suggest that testicular androgens and a functional testosterone receptor are not required for the increased susceptibility of male beta-cells to the effects of the ras oncoprotein , and that the relative resistance of female beta-cells is mediated by estrogen . in addition , a genetic component of female beta-cell resistance to ras is revealed by crossing the transgenic mice with c3heb/fej mice , which results in a pronounced increase in the incidence of female diabetes . 
pulsatile luteinizing hormone secretion in normal female mice and in hypogonadal female mice with preoptic area implants . pulsatile lh secretion is driven by gnrh , the hypothalamic hormone that is lacking in the hypogonadal mutant mouse . preoptic area grafts containing gnrh neurons correct many reproductive deficits in hypogonadal mice . in this study we evaluated the pattern of lh secretion in hypogonadal female mice with preoptic area grafts ( hpg/poa ) and in normal female mice . normal females were ovariectomized at 10 weeks of age , and hpg/poa mice were ovariectomized 4 months after graft surgery . three weeks later , all mice received intracardial catheters . the next day , sequential blood samples were obtained every 10 min for 4 h from the awake , freely moving mice . at ovariectomy , normal and hpg/poa ovarian weights were 8.6 + / - 0.9 and 7.1 + / - 1.2 mg , respectively . significant lh pulses were detected in 9 of 10 normal mice and in 9 of 13 hpg/poa mice . pulse frequency ( normal , 0.86 + / - 0.13 ; hpg/poa , 0.61 + / - 0.13 pulse/h ) and interpeak interval ( normal , 81.7 + / - 20.3 ; hpg/poa , 93.2 + / - 24.0 min ) were not significantly different ( p greater than 0.2 ) , but mean plasma lh levels ( normal , 1.07 + / - 0.16 ng/ml ; hpg/poa , 0.49 + / - 0.08 ng/ml ; p less than 0.005 ) and mean lh pulse amplitude ( normal , 1.92 + / - 0.53 ; hpg/poa , 0.63 + / - 0.28 ; p less than 0.05 ) were significantly lower in the hpg/poa mice . the lower mean lh level and lh pulse amplitude in ovariectomized hpg/poa mice are consistent with the inability of most of these mice to show increased lh secretion after castration . the findings indicate that preoptic area brain grafts are capable of supporting episodic lh release in the hypogonadal mouse and suggest the presence of a functional gnrh pulse generator in the majority of mice with grafts . 
genetic data and natural history of friedreich 's disease : a study of 80 italian patients . the clinical and genetic features of 80 patients with friedreich 's disease from 64 families are described . diagnostic criteria were : no evidence of dominant inheritance , onset by the age of 20 years , progressive unremitting ataxia of limbs and gait , and absence of knee and ankle jerks . furthermore , at least one of the following accessory signs was present : dysarthria , extensor plantar response and echocardiographic evidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . two peaks of onset age were evident at 6-9 and 12-15 years . analysis of intra-family variation of onset age and absence of clustering of cardiomyopathy and diabetes did not suggest genetic heterogeneity . peripheral nerve impairment was an early finding and showed slight further progression , whereas involvement of the cerebellar and corticospinal pathways appeared later and mainly accounted for the progressive worsening of the disease . 
gynecomastia . a bothersome but readily treatable problem . although breast enlargement in boys and men can cause both psychological and physical distress , the disorder is rarely serious and is readily treatable . several factors can lead to the estrogenic excess that causes growth of breast tissue . dr jacobs describes a patient with gynecomastia related to cirrhosis of the liver who responded promptly to a brief course of tamoxifen citrate therapy . 
musculoskeletal abnormalities in a patient with juvenile hypothyroidism . abnormalities in growth and development are the most striking clinical features of juvenile acquired hypothyroidism . therefore , physicians should consider the diagnosis of hypothyroidism in any child with musculoskeletal growth dysfunction . drs kilpatrick and fincher describe a case demonstrating the severe and potentially irreversible effects of prolonged , untreated hypothyroidism . 
infrainguinal revascularization for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . we studied the efficacy of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . the patency of 42 femoropopliteal and femorodistal bypasses , performed for limb salvage in 37 patients with end-stage renal disease , was assessed with doppler ultrasonography and dye tests . patency rates and limb salvage were determined by life-table analysis . average age was 45 years ( range , 28 to 61 years ) ; 23 of the 37 were men . twenty-three patients had diabetes mellitus , and 16 were smokers . bypass procedures were done in 32 instances while the patients were maintained with chronic hemodialysis and in five instances with peritoneal dialysis ; in five instances the patients had had successful renal transplantation . indications for revascularization included pain at rest , nonhealing ulcer , or distal gangrene . femoropopliteal bypass was done in 32 limbs ; 10 were more distal procedures . reversed saphenous vein was the conduit in 30 cases ; prosthetic material was used in the remainder . autogenous material was used in all distal bypasses . four patients required graft revision during the initial hospitalization , but none thereafter . two patients died within the operative period , nine within 18 months of operation . nine major operations were required . three-month cumulative graft patency was achieved in 41 cases and corresponding limb salvage in 33 cases ; 18-month patency was achieved in 34 cases and overall limb salvage in 33 cases . success of limb salvage most closely correlated with preoperative ankle-brachial ratio and level of bypass required . 
new approaches to improve diabetes control knowledge about diabetes mellitus and its management has steadily increased since the discovery of insulin in 1921 . specific therapies for both type i and type ii diabetes have resulted in greater normalization of plasma glucose levels . information obtained from self-monitoring of blood glucose levels has given physicians a firmer base on which to make management decisions concerning the safe control of diabetes . 
is hyperglycemia associated with cardiovascular disease ? the framingham study . the association of nonfasting blood glucose levels with cvd incidence was determined prospectively in 1382 men and 2094 women aged 45 to 84 years participating in the framingham heart study . for this study , all patients were classified in 1970 as diabetic or nondiabetic . every 2 years they were examined , categorized according to causal blood glucose samples obtained at the clinic visit , reclassified for development of cvd and diabetes mellitus , and followed 10 years for cvd . during the follow-up period , 350 men and 369 women developed cvd . age-adjusted cvd rates were positively associated with glucose levels in nondiabetic women who did not develop diabetes during follow-up . no such associations were seen in men . multivariate analyses confirmed the independent association of blood glucose levels with later cvd in nondiabetic women . this study shows that hyperglycemia in the original framingham cohort is an independent risk factor for cvd in nondiabetic women , but not among men . 
cardiovascular risk factor levels in ethnic hawaiians . we report a cardiovascular risk factor survey of " native " hawaiians 20-59 years old ( 70 percent , or 257 ) , living on the hawaiian homestead lands on the island of molokai , hawaii . more than 60 percent of both sexes were overweight . among males , 42 percent were smokers . the percent of the population with systolic blood pressure greater than 140 mm hg or a diastolic pressure greater than 90 mm hg or taking hypertensive medications was 14 percent of those ages 20-39 and 36 percent of those ages 40-59 . the percent with serum cholesterol greater than or equal to 6.2 mmol/l ranged from 8 percent of those 20-29 years old to 46 percent in those 50-59 years old . two percent of those ages 20-29 had a history of diabetes , or 2 + or greater glycosuria by dipstick , as did 23 percent of those ages 50-59 . the majority of the known diabetics exhibited glycosuria and elevated glycohemoglobin levels , indicating poor control . hypertension , although usually known to the participant , was frequently uncontrolled . from these data , it appears that among this group of hawaiians major risk factors for cardiovascular disease were frequent , while at the same time the levels of awareness and/or control for most of these factors were low . 
riedel 's thyroiditis . invasive fibrous ( riedel 's ) thyroiditis is a rare thyroid condition of unknown origin that may be associated with inflammatory fibrosclerosing processes elsewhere in the body . although the condition is benign and self-limiting , its importance lies in its ability to clinically mimic carcinoma almost completely , necessitating performing an open biopsy to establish the correct diagnosis . in a review of over 700 thyroid operations performed at loma linda ( calif ) university medical center in the past 15 years , we encountered only one documented case of riedel 's thyroiditis . our patient presented with a firm thyroid mass , vocal cord paralysis , and symptoms of esophageal compression . surgery was performed to obtain a definitive diagnosis and prevent the possibility of subsequent additional tracheal compression with airway compromise . the pathologic findings , as well as the medical and surgical treatment of this condition , are reviewed . 
giant breast hematoma requiring blood transfusion : an unusual complication after an echocardiographic study during thrombolytic therapy . we report on a patient in whom significant bleeding occurred during thrombolytic therapy . the bleeding occurred after an echocardiographic study , and it resulted in blood transfusion . 
extracapsular cataract surgery with lens implantation in diabetics with and without proliferative retinopathy in a retrospective study we have examined all diabetics ( 66 operated eyes ) and an equal number of non-diabetic matched controls who underwent extracapsular cataract extracation ( ecce ) with intraocular lens ( iol ) implantation over a two-year period ending in december 1987 . of the diabetic patients ' 76 % eyes improved by at least two lines of snellen acuity postoperatively . of these patients 68 % eyes and of the control eyes 83 % achieved an acuity of 6/12 or better . in the diabetics the visual outcome depended on the state of the retinopathy and in particular the maculopathy . the diabetic group had a greater incidence of postoperative inflammation , but the major complications were related to continuing neovascularisation . early postoperative laser photocoagulation may help to prevent these proliferative complications , and , provided a large , adequate capsulotomy is performed for capsular thickening , the presence of an iol does not interfere with this photocoagulation . we also advise early postoperative assessment , and treatment if necessary , of any maculopathy . diabetic retinopathy should no longer be regarded as a contraindication to intraocular lens insertion . 
the long-term effects of radiation therapy on patients with ovarian dysgerminoma . a retrospective chart review and questionnaire study was undertaken to look at the long-term effects of radiation therapy in ovarian dysgerminoma patients . forty-three patients and 55 controls responded to a questionnaire that detailed bowel , bladder , thyroid , menstrual , reproductive , sexual , and growth function . statistically significant differences in the number of bowel movements were noticed when comparing patients with controls . the authors noticed no significant differences between cases and controls in bladder function . no thyroid disorders were attributable to mediastinal radiation therapy . most patients with intact uteri bleed monthly on hormonal replacement . three patients with a remaining ovary and uterus resumed menstrual function after substantial doses of abdominopelvic radiation therapy . no patients have conceived . the authors noticed a slight increase in dyspareunia in the treated group , but most patients were satisfied with their sexual function . one premenarchal patient exhibited a growth disorder . 
lack of effect of isoproterenol on unloaded velocity of sarcomere shortening in rat cardiac trabeculae . several recent reports have indicated that catecholamines may act directly on the crossbridge cycle , independent of intracellular calcium concentration changes . the present study investigated the effect of isoproterenol on peak force during twitches at constant sarcomere length and unloaded velocity of sarcomere shortening in isolated right ventricular trabeculae of hearts with v1 or v3 isomyosin obtained from euthyroid and hypothyroid rats , respectively . hypothyroidism was induced by treatment of the rats with propylthiouracil for 6 weeks . electrophoretic analysis showed that the hearts of hypothyroid animals were composed only of v3 isomyosin , whereas the hearts of euthyroid animals were composed predominantly of v1 isomyosin . force development was measured with a silicon strain gauge and sarcomere length with laser diffraction techniques ; the shortening velocity was determined from contractions in which sarcomere length was initially held constant followed by a quick release to zero load and a controlled release at zero load . both isometric twitch force and unloaded sarcomere shortening velocity were sigmoidal functions of [ ca2 + ] o and of the concentration of isoproterenol . at optimal [ ca2 + ] o , unloaded shortening velocity was 40 % lower in myocardium of hypothyroid animals than in myocardium of euthyroid animals . isoproterenol increased the sensitivity of isometric twitch force and unloaded shortening velocity to [ ca2 + ] o in trabeculae from both euthyroid and hypothyroid animals . isoproterenol did not increase unloaded shortening velocity at optimal [ ca2 + ] o , regardless of the thyroid state . from these results we conclude that beta-adrenergic stimulation per se does not accelerate the rate limiting step in the crossbridge cycle that determines unloaded sarcomere shortening velocity in the intact cardiac cell . 
in-hospital and 1-year mortality in 1,524 women after myocardial infarction . comparison with 4,315 men . we determined in-hospital and 1-year prognoses after acute myocardial infarction ( mi ) in 5,839 consecutive patients derived from 14 of 21 coronary care units in israel during 1981-1983 . age-adjusted in-hospital mortality was 23.1 % in 1,524 women and 15.7 % in 4,315 men ( p less than 0.0005 ) . one-year age-adjusted mortality rates in patients surviving hospitalization were 11.8 % in women and 9.3 % in men ( p = 0.03 ) . cumulative age-adjusted 1-year mortality rates were 31.8 % in women and 23.1 % in men ( p less than 0.0005 ) . relative odds of mortality , covariate-adjusted for major prognostic factors that included age , prior mi , congestive heart failure , and infarct location by electrocardiogram , indicated that female gender was independently and significantly associated with increased mortality both during hospitalization ( relative odds , 1.72 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.45-2 .04 ) and at 1 year after discharge ( relative odds , 1.32 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.05-1 .66 ) . in separate multivariate analyses for each gender , a major factor that emerged as a predictor of outcome in women , but not in men , was a reported history of diabetes mellitus , both for in-hospital mortality and for 1-year mortality . however , even in the nondiabetics in this population , female gender was a significant , independent predictor of in-hospital mortality . the findings of the present study substantiate that women fare worse than men after suffering an acute mi , that increased age does not fully account for the increased mortality in women , and that diabetic women are at particularly high risk once mi has occurred . 
reduced plasma noradrenaline concentrations in simple-obese and diabetic obese patients . 1 . obesity may be associated with a decreased activity of the sympathetic nervous system and also with a deficiency of the response to stimuli activating the sympathetic nervous system . as insulin activates the sympathetic nervous system , the present study was undertaken to measure the plasma noradrenaline concentration in the fasting state and after 75 g of oral glucose in simple-obese patients ( n = 13 ) , in non-insulin-dependent ( type 2 ) diabetic patients ( n = 37 ) and in normal control subjects ( n = 12 ) . 2 . the fasting plasma noradrenaline concentration was similarly reduced in the simple-obese group and in the diabetic obese group compared with the control group ( p = 0.005 ) . the glucose-induced increase in plasma noradrenaline concentration was normal in the simple-obese group , but was abolished in the obese diabetic patients ( p = 0.008 ) . 3 . step-wise regression analysis indicated that independent effects on the fasting plasma noradrenaline concentration were exerted by age ( r = +0.32 , p = 0.002 ) , glucose concentration ( r = -0.32 , p = 0.02 ) and the degree of obesity ( r = -0.37 , p = 0.007 ) , but not by plasma insulin concentration . 4 . these results show that obese patients have a reduced fasting plasma noradrenaline concentration independently of accompanying diabetes , but that the response of noradrenaline to oral glucose is only abolished in the obese diabetic patients . 
major cross-country differences in risk of dying for people with iddm . diabetes epidemiology research international mortality study group . objective : little is known concerning global differences in the risk of premature death for individuals developing youth-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) . the diabetes epidemiology research international study was developed to examine the mortality patterns of four population-based cohorts of iddm cases from allegheny county , pennsylvania ( n = 1000 ) , finland ( n = 5146 ) , israel ( n = 681 ) , and japan ( n = 1428 ) . research design and methods : all subjects were diagnosed as having diabetes , were less than 18 yr old at onset , were taking insulin at the time of hospital discharge , and were diagnosed between 1 january 1965 and 31 december 1979 . the living status as of 1 january 1985 was determined . results : overall , there were 182 deaths . life-table analysis revealed that at 20-yr duration of diabetes , 5.5 % of the cohort had died in allegheny county in contrast to only 3.1 % in finland and 4.6 % in israel ( p less than 0.01 ) . follow-up for an additional 3 yr in the united states and finland revealed major differences in the 30 - to 39-yr age-group , with 3.9 times greater premature mortality in the u.s. cohort compared with the finnish group ( overall mortality 2.3 vs. 0.6 % , respectively ) . the japanese cohort was developed in a somewhat different manner than the other three ; therefore , the populations of the u.s. , finland , and israel were reconfigured to make them directly comparable to that of japan . the japanese cohort exhibited markedly higher age-adjusted mortality rates ( n/100 ,000 person-yr of diabetes ) than the other three ( japan 681 , u.s. 230 , finland 171 , and israel 131 ) . conclusions : these data indicate that young adult iddm subjects are at an increased risk of premature death , there are differences in the mortality risk across countries , and both the u.s. and japan have the major problem of an apparently excessive premature death rate among young people who have diabetes . 
serum levels of tumor necrosis factor and il-1 alpha and il-1 beta in diabetic patients . objective : to determine whether chronic hyperglycemia causes increased levels of serum tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) and interleukin 1 alpha ( il-1 alpha ) and il-1 beta . research design and methods : sera were obtained from 59 diabetic patients , 44 chronically ill nondiabetic patients , and 34 age-matched healthy control subjects . mononuclear cells were isolated from a subgroup of diabetic patients and healthy control subjects . results : except for a modest increase in the prevalence of detectable serum tnf levels in diabetic patients , the serum cytokines measured in this study did not appear to be altered in diabetes . in vitro tnf production by mononuclear cells was not altered in diabetic patients . however , in vitro il-1 beta secretion , in response to lipopolysaccharides , was reduced . conclusions : diabetes mellitus is not associated with significant changes in serum levels of tnf , il-1 alpha , or il-1 beta . in vitro secretion of il-1 beta in response to lipopolysaccharides may be reduced in diabetes . 
relationship of limited joint mobility to abnormal foot pressures and diabetic foot ulceration . objective : to investigate the role of limited joint mobility ( ljm ) in causing abnormal foot pressures and foot ulceration . research design and methods : the subjects were recruited from a general diabetes clinic where patients were screened for neuropathy , retinopathy , and elevated plantar foot pressure . sixty-four patients in five groups were matched by age and sex in the following groups : group 1 , patients with ljm and neuropathy ; group 2 , nonneuropathic diabetic patients with ljm ; group 3 , patients with neuropathy and no ljm ; group 4 , diabetic control subjects ; and group 5 , nondiabetic control subjects . joint mobility was assessed in the foot at subtalar and metatarsophalangeal joints ; plantar foot pressures were assessed by optical pedobarography and neuropathic status by a biothesiometer and electrophysiology . results : joint mobility was reduced at both sites in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3 , 4 , and 5 ( p less than 0.001 ) . plantar foot pressures were significantly higher in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3 , 4 , and 5 ( p less than 0.001 ) . no differences in plantar foot pressures were observed between groups 1 and 2 . there were strong correlations between plantar foot pressures and joint mobility in the foot ( r = -0.7 , p less than 0.001 ) . previous foot ulceration was present in 65 % of patients in group 1 , none in group 2 , and 5 % in group 3 . conclusions : 1 ) ljm may be a major factor in causing abnormally high plantar foot pressures , 2 ) abnormal plantar foot pressures alone do not lead to foot ulceration , and 3 ) ljm contributes to foot ulceration in the susceptible neuropathic foot . 
risk factors for development of diabetic nephropathy and retinopathy in jewish iddm patients . risk factors associated with diabetic microvascular complications , with special reference to ethnic origin , were looked for in 231 young jewish insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) patients with duration of diabetes greater than or equal to 10 yr . median age at diagnosis of diabetes was 9.2 yr ( range 0.04-26 .2 yr ) , and median duration of the disease was 15.3 yr ( range 10.0-37 .2 yr ) . sixty-three percent of the patients were ashkenazi jews , and 37 % were non-ashkenazi jews . hba1 was evaluated every 3 mo in the last 10 yr of follow-up , and albumin excretion rate was tested in three 24-h urine collections . direct and indirect ophthalmoscopy was performed every year since diagnosis of diabetes , and if retinal pathology was suspected , color photographs were taken . microalbuminuria was detected in 31 % and macroalbuminuria in 7 % of the patients . nonproliferative and proliferative retinopathy was found in 44 and 12 % of the patients , respectively . on logistic regression analysis , two variables were significantly and independently associated with diabetic nephropathy -- non-ashkenazi origin and mean hba1 values over the first 5 of 10 yr of follow-up . variables significantly and independently related to diabetic retinopathy were non-ashkenazi origin , mean hba1 values over the last 10 yr of follow-up , and duration of diabetes . because non-ashkenazi jews in israel are of lower socioeconomic status than ashkenazi jews , we stratified our patients according to their socioeconomic parameters , median hba1 values , and duration of diabetes . non-ashkenazi patients were at a higher risk to develop complications in all strata . 
low growth hormone levels are related to increased body mass index and do not reflect impaired growth in luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist-treated children with precocious puberty . to test the hypothesis that gh deficiency might explain the low growth velocity of some lhrh agonist ( lhrha ) - treated children with central precocious puberty , we measured stimulated ( n = 81 ) and spontaneous ( n = 32 ) gh levels during or after lhrha treatment . gh stimulation tests in the children who were receiving lhrha treatment were performed after 2 days of ethinyl estradiol administration . thirty-one of 81 children ( 38 % ) who underwent gh stimulation tests had subnormal responses ( less than or equal to 7 micrograms/l ) to all tests administered ( at least 2 stimuli ) , including 22 of 67 ( 33 % ) who had precocious puberty that was idiopathic or associated with hypothalamic hamartoma . eleven of 32 children ( 34 % ) who underwent measurement of the mean nighttime spontaneous gh level had levels below the normal range for prepubertal children ( less than 1.2 microgram/l ) . despite the high incidence of subnormal gh levels , there appeared to be no relationship between the gh levels of these children and their growth characteristics . the height , growth velocity , bone maturation rate , predicted height , and insulin-like growth factor-i levels were not different between the children with low gh levels and the children with normal gh levels . conversely , the gh levels were not different between the children with subnormal growth rates and the children with normal growth rates . thus , variation in the growth rates of these lhrha-treated children with central precocious puberty could not be explained by variation in the stimulated or spontaneous secretion of gh . in attempting to understand the high incidence of low gh levels in children with precocious puberty , we examined the relationship between gh level and body mass index ( bmi ) . both the stimulated ( r = -0.33 ; p less than 0.002 ) and the spontaneous ( r = -0.61 ; p less than 0.0002 ) gh levels were inversely related to bmi . moreover , the children with precocious puberty as a group had significantly elevated bmi [ 1.2 + / - 0.1 ( + / - se ) sd units ] compared to normal children of the same age ( p less than 0.0001 ) . thus , increased body mass may explain the high incidence of subnormal gh levels in these patients , and normative gh levels adjusted for body mass are needed before it can be concluded that the apparently subnormal gh levels in lhrha-treated children with precocious puberty are in fact low . 
serum osteocalcin in patients taking l-thyroxine who have subclinical hyperthyroidism . serum osteocalcin , an index of osteoblastic activity , is increased in hyperthyroidism . serum osteocalcin levels are negatively correlated with bone density in patients with overt hyperthyroidism . osteocalcin levels are also elevated in patients with multinodular goiter and subclinical hyperthyroidism . we therefore measured serum osteocalcin levels in patients taking t4 to determine if they correlated with the degree of tsh suppression . despite an upward trend in serum osteocalcin measurements with decreasing tsh concentrations , there was no significant difference in serum osteocalcin among groups of patients with normal ( 0.5-5 .0 mu/l ) , mildly reduced ( 0.1-0 .5 mu/l ) , or undetectable serum tsh ( less than 0.01 mu/l ) . however , a weak negative correlation was seen between serum tsh and osteocalcin concentrations ( r = 0.29 , slope = -0.28 , p less than 0.05 ) . osteocalcin did not correlate with either serum free t4 or free t3 concentrations . serum pth concentrations were not different among the three patient groups . our data suggest that osteocalcin is not a useful clinical marker for increased bone turnover in patients with subclinical hyperthyroidism due to t4 therapy . however , the trend towards higher osteocalcin levels in patients with suppressed serum tsh values , and the weak negative correlation between serum tsh and osteocalcin are consistent with findings of reduced bone density in these patients . 
antihypertensive drugs and glucose metabolism : comparison between a diuretic , a beta-blocker and felodipine , a new calcium antagonist in subjects with arterial hypertension and diabetes . felodipine , a new antihypertensive calcium antagonist , was compared with metoprolol , a beta-blocker , and hydrochlorothiazide , a diuretic , with respect to glucose tolerance in a randomized double-blind cross-over study consisting of 11 patients , of age range 50-70 years , who had developed diabetes during antihypertensive treatment . each treatment period lasted for 10 weeks . the blood pressure was similar irrespective of treatment . serum glucose levels during the oral glucose tolerance test were significantly lower when the patients were treated with felodipine than when they were taking hydrochlorothiazide . serum insulin levels appeared to decrease at an earlier stage of the test when the patients were treated with felodipine , the calcium antagonist , than with the other two antihypertensive substances , which suggests that glucose tolerance is impaired to a lesser extent during treatment with the calcium antagonist . glucose tolerance was never completely normalized with any of the drugs tested . 
somatostatin analogue , octreotide , reduces increased glomerular filtration rate and kidney size in insulin-dependent diabetes . to determine whether treatment with a somatostatin analogue can reduce kidney hyperfiltration and hypertrophy in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , we studied 11 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and glomerular hyperfiltration . the patients were assigned randomly to receive continuous subcutaneous infusion of either octreotide , 300 micrograms/24 h ( five patients ) or placebo ( six patients ) for 12 weeks . at baseline , mean glomerular filtration rate and mean total kidney volume were not significantly different in the two groups . however , after 12 weeks of treatment , the mean glomerular filtration rate was significantly lower in the octreotide group ( 136 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ; range , 91 to 158 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ) than in the placebo group ( 157 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ; range , 138 to 184 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ) . furthermore , the mean total kidney volume was significantly lower after treatment in the octreotide group ( 379 ml/1 .73 m2 ; range , 307 to 454 ml/1 .73 m2 ) than in the placebo group ( 389 ml/1 .73 m2 ; range , 347 to 465 ml/1 .73 m2 ) . glycemic control did not change significantly in either group . we conclude that subcutaneous infusion of octreotide for 12 weeks reduces increased glomerular filtration rate and kidney size in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus despite the fact that glycemic control remains unchanged . 
hyperinsulinaemia and microvascular angina ( " syndrome x " ) glucose and insulin responses to a glucose load in 11 patients with angina attributed to microvascular coronary dysfunction were compared with those in 11 healthy subjects matched for age , sex , and body mass . stimulated hyperinsulinaemia was demonstrated in the microvascular angina group . the findings suggest a role for increased concentrations of insulin in coronary microvascular dysfunction . 
effects of hypothyroidism on bronchial reactivity in non-asthmatic subjects . the effect of hypothyroidism on non-specific bronchial reactivity was studied in 11 patients without pulmonary disease ( mean age 40 ( sd 13 ) years ) who had had a total thyroidectomy and radioiodine treatment for thyroid cancer 41 ( 36 ) months before the study . all patients when mildly hyperthyroid while having long term thyroxine replacement treatment and once when hypothyroid two weeks after stopping triiodothyronine for the purpose of screening for metastases . bronchial reactivity was assessed by measuring specific airways conductance ( sgaw ) after increasing doses of inhaled carbachol ( 45-1260 micrograms ) . the dose producing a 35 % decrease in sgaw ( pd35 ) was determined from the cumulative log dose-response curve by linear regression analysis . mean baseline sgaw values were similar when the patients were hypothyroid and when they were hyperthyroid ( 1.35 ( 0.36 ) and 1.41 ( 0.56 ) s-1 kpa-1 ) . the interstudy coefficients of variation of baseline sgaw were higher in the thyroid patients than in a euthyroid control group ( 14 % versus 8 % ) . geometric mean pd35 was lower when the patients were hypothyroid ( 97 micrograms ) than when they were mildly hyperthyroid ( 192 micrograms ) . it is concluded that acute hypothyroidism increases non-specific bronchial reactivity in nonasthmatic subjects . 
cytologic identification of clinically occult proliferative breast disease in women with a family history of breast cancer . a cytologic method for sampling the normal breast by fine-needle aspiration ( fna ) was used to determine the frequency of clinically inapparent proliferative breast disease ( pbd ) in women with family histories of breast cancer . the authors attempted to obtain specimens from each quadrant of both breasts in 51 female first-degree relatives of breast cancer patients . the study group had no detectable masses by physical examination or mammography . samples were prepared on membrane filters , papanicolaou stained , and evaluated cytomorphologically . three hundred seventy-eight of 408 ( 92.6 % ) possible quadrants were sampled ; cellular material was obtained from 290 ( 76.7 % ) quadrants . pbd was identified in 20 of the 51 women ( 39.2 % ) . when epithelium was obtained , nuclear area , perimeter , and diameter were measured with the use of computerized image analysis . nuclei in samples containing atypical hyperplasia showed significant differences in these parameters when compared with cells from samples containing normal epithelium or benign hyperplasia . the authors ' findings indicate that fna sampling and computerized image analysis are useful in the detection and characterization of clinically inapparent pbd . 
accuracy of portable blood glucose monitoring . effect of glucose level and prandial state glucose was determined on capillary and venous blood samples from 274 adult diabetics by three different methodologies : the glucoscan 2000 and accu-check ii portable glucose meters ( capillary ) and the kodak ektachem 700 analyzer ( venous ) . both glucose meters correlated significantly with the ektachem results . a significant positive bias was found for the glucoscan compared with ektachem , not found with the accu-check ii . the accu-check performed better than the glucoscan at venous plasma glucose levels less than 1 g/l . the mean error of glucoscan determinations was significantly greater and biased positive when the measurement was performed within 4 hours of eating , whereas no such effect was seen with accu-check error . multiple regression analysis revealed that the glucoscan measurement was independently influenced by both venous plasma glucose and prandial state , whereas the accu-check ii measurement was not dependent on either variable . the within-run precision for both glucose meters were comparable . 
ten years ' experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . up to january 1989 , 171 patients were trained at our center on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) , and 17 on continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis ( ccpd ) . over 10 years , we have gained 5,068 patient-months experience . patient survival was 60 % and 31 % at 5 and 10 years , respectively . in contrast , diabetics had a survival of 32 % at 5 years . major complications included 499 new episodes of peritonitis , 304 exit-site infections , 22 hernias , five bowel perforations , one hydrothorax , and three episodes of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis . our technique survival has been 62 % and 40 % at 5 and 10 years , respectively . we believe that capd is a viable dialysis technique for long-term treatment of chronic renal failure and it should be offered as an option to intermittent hemodialysis . 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis : ten years at one facility . a review of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) performed at one facility over a period of 10 years showed that age and type ii diabetes mellitus were associated with the worst technique survival . the median survival of patients entering capd was not significantly different when the etiology of renal failure was chronic glomerulonephritis ( cgn ; 27 months ) , chronic interstitial nephritis ( cin ; 21 months ) , diabetes mellitus type i ( 21 months ) , or hypertension ( 16 months ) . patients with diabetes mellitus type ii had significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) worse survival ( 11 months ) . a patient remaining on capd 6 months had a 55 % to 60 % chance of remaining on therapy at 2 years and a 47 % chance at the end of 3 years , whereas a patient with diabetes mellitus type ii had a 34 % conditional probability of remaining on dialysis at 2 years and 18 % at 3 years . sex , race , and educational achievement were not important determinants of dialysis technique survival . studies are indicated to identify predictors of a poor dialysis experience . 
the effects of iodoprophylaxis on thyroid size during pregnancy . thyroid gland size was ultrasonographically determined in 35 pregnant women who live in an area with moderate iodine deficiency . iodide salt was administered to group a ( n = 17 ) , whereas group b ( n = 18 ) was used as a control . each group was tested for thyroid-stimulating hormone serum levels , iodine excretion , and thyroid volume . in both groups thyroid-stimulating hormone levels were similar and did not change throughout pregnancy . the iodine excretion at the third trimester in the treated group was significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) higher than that of group b ( 100.0 + / - 39.0 versus 50.0 + / - 37.0 micrograms iodine per 24 hours , respectively ) . initially , thyroid volume did not differ between the two groups . at the end of pregnancy , no difference was found in thyroid size in group a , whereas in the untreated women it increased significantly ( p less than 0.0001 ) with a mean increase of 1.6 + / - 0.6 ml ( 16.2 % + / - 6.0 % ) . these results show that the increased thyroid size in the control group was mainly a result of relative iodine deficiency and that iodoprophylaxis should be warranted even in areas with moderate iodine deficiency to prevent the increase in thyroid size and , probably , to avoid the risk of maternal and fetal hypothyroidism . 
differential expression of basement membrane collagen chains in diabetic nephropathy . diabetic nephropathy is characterized by progressive expansion of mesangial matrix and thickening of the glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) . kidney tissues from 13 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus were studied by immunohistochemical techniques for the distribution of three recently described collagen peptides ( m28 + , m28 [ good-pasture antigen ] , and alport antigen ) and various components of classical type iv collagen [ alpha 1 ( iv ) noncollagenous ( nc ) globular domain , alpha 2 ( iv ) nc , 7s , triple helix ] . recently m28 and m28 + were designated as nc monomers of alpha 3 ( iv ) and alpha 4 ( iv ) based on limited amino acid sequencing . during the course of the disease , the distribution of the m28 chains and the alport peptide segregated completely from that of classical type iv collagen . in diabetic kidneys , antibodies to the m28 and alport peptides reacted intensely with the thickened gbm but not with the mesangium . in contrast , the reactivity of antibodies to various components of classical type iv collagen was prominent within the expanded mesangial matrix with significant decrease in reactivity in the peripheral capillary wall . in hyalinized glomeruli , components of classical type iv collagen virtually disappeared , whereas the m28 and alport peptides persisted in the collapsed gbm . these studies support the view that expansion of the mesangial matrix and thickening of the gbm involve separate and distinct collagen components . the differential expression of the m28 and alport peptides compared with that of classical type iv collagen may be a consequence of differing sites of synthesis ( classical type iv collagen from endothelial/mesangial cells and m28 and alport chains from visceral epithelial cells ) , independent control mechanisms , and/or differences in degradation . 
long-term evaluation of indobufen in peripheral vascular disease . indobufen -- an inhibitor of platelets aggregation -- has been used in 306 patients with intermittent claudication due to peripheral vascular disease . patients were treated and followed up for one year . one patient of every 3 treated with indobufen was treated with asa , and a control group of patients receiving no treatment was also followed up . the authors studied by means of a treadmill exercise test the pain-free walking distance ( pfwd ) , the global walking distance ( gwd ) , and the recovery time after exercise . the treatment period was completed by 290 patients : 204 claudicants , 51 claudicants with diabetes , and 35 with a short pfwd and gwd ( greater than 150 m ) . indobufen was more effective than asa in improving the pfwd and gwd in all groups . there were also fewer side effects with indobufen , and cardiac morbidity and mortality was also reduced . in conclusion indobufen showed its activity and safety in chronic treatment of patients with peripheral disease , and we suggest that it may be used for long periods without side effects . 
multilevel occlusive vascular disease presenting with gangrene . the medical records of all patients subjected to lower extremity amputations during a 3-year period were reviewed . it was shown that advanced age and the presence of multiple medical problems do not predispose to higher levels of limb loss . although diabetic patients more frequently undergo amputation because of sepsis than their nondiabetic counterparts , the diabetic state was not found to be associated with a greater likelihood of above knee ( ak ) procedures . prior arterial surgery was not shown to make ak amputation more likely , but it was disconcerting to note that limb salvage was not achieved in many individuals despite patent proximal inflow revascularization procedures . this initial study showed that several presumed risk factors were not predictors of amputation level . those patients requiring ak amputations had a greater frequency of combined segment ( aortoiliac and femoropopliteal ) occlusive disease than those who had successful amputations at more distal levels . a follow-up study of 41 consecutive patients presenting with tissue loss due to combined segment occlusive disease was performed . eighteen ( group i ) underwent inflow procedures only , while 23 ( group ii ) also underwent distal revascularization . the groups were similar with respect to age , risk factors , extent of tissue loss and sepsis . at 1 year 10 ( 56 % ) group i and only 3 ( 13 % ) group ii patients required major amputation ( p = 0.01 ) . distal bypass , in addition to an inflow procedure , is recommended for those who present with tissue loss due to multilevel arterial occlusion . 
steroid cell tumor of the ovary in a child . an 8-year-old girl exhibited severe , progressive virilization of 2 years ' duration associated with markedly elevated circulating testosterone concentrations . based on her initial clinical presentation and results of a chemical evaluation , she was originally thought to have non-classic 21-hydroxylase deficiency , but her condition did not respond to corticosteroid therapy . further evaluation confirmed the presence of an ovarian neoplasm . the excised ovary contained an attached gray-brown mass . light microscopic and ultrastructural examination revealed the mass to be a steroid cell tumor . because reinke 's crystals were not present , it was designated to be a steroid cell tumor not otherwise specified . this case represents one of 22 reported cases of steroid cell tumor occurring in children described in the literature , most of which have been associated with heterosexual precocity . to our knowledge , steroid cell tumors are benign when they occur in prepubertal children . although they are rare , steroid cell tumors of the ovary should be considered in cases of childhood virilization . 
spectral analysis of heart rate in diabetic autonomic neuropathy . a comparison with standard tests of autonomic function . power spectral analysis of the heart rate was compared with standard tests of autonomic function performed on 15 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with symptoms of autonomic dysfunction . the high-frequency power , low-frequency power , and total power of the heart rate power spectrum measured in the supine position -- possible measures of parasympathetic nervous system function -- were significant predictors of the expiratory-inspiratory ratio , the beat-to-beat heart rate difference on deep respiration , the standard deviation of the resting heart rate , the 30:15 ratio , and the valsalva ratio . the change in low-frequency power on moving from the supine to upright position , a possible measure of sympathetic nervous system function , was a modest predictor of the systolic and diastolic blood pressure fall in response to postural change , but a poor predictor of the blood pressure response to isometric exercise and a cold stimulus . this study supports the role of heart rate power spectral analysis as a clinical test of autonomic function in patients with known or suspected autonomic failure . 
the lens opacities case-control study . risk factors for cataract . the lens opacities case-control study evaluated risk factors for age-related nuclear , cortical , posterior subcapsular , and mixed cataracts . the 1380 participants were ophthalmology outpatients , aged 40 to 79 years , classified into the following groups : posterior subcapsular only , 72 patients ; nuclear only , 137 patients ; cortical only , 290 patients ; mixed cataract , 446 patients ; and controls , 435 patients . in polychotomous logistic regression analyses , low education increased risk ( odds ratio [ or ] = 1.46 ) and regular use of multivitamin supplements decreased risk ( or = 0.63 ) for all cataract types . dietary intake of riboflavin , vitamins c , e , and carotene , which have antioxidant potential , was protective for cortical , nuclear , and mixed cataract ; intake of niacin , thiamine , and iron also decreased risk . similar results were found in analyses that combined the antioxidant vitamins ( or = 0.40 ) or considered the individual nutrients ( or = 0.48 to 0.56 ) . diabetes increased risk of posterior subcapsular , cortical , and mixed cataracts ( or = 1.56 ) . oral steroid therapy increased posterior subcapsular cataract risk ( or = 5.83 ) . females ( or = 1.51 ) and nonwhites ( or = 2.03 ) were at increased risk only for cortical cataract . risk factors for nuclear cataract were a nonprofessional occupation ( or = 1.96 ) , current smoking ( or = 1.68 ) , body mass index ( or = 0.76 ) , and occupational exposure to sunlight ( or = 0.61 ) . gout medications ( or = 2.48 ) , family history ( or = 1.52 ) , and use of eyeglasses by age 20 years , which is an indicator of myopia ( or = 1.44 ) , increased risk of mixed cataract . the results support a role for the nutritional , medical , personal , and other factors in cataractogenesis . the potentially modifiable factors suggested by this study merit further evaluation . 
myocardial magnesium : relation to laboratory and clinical variables in patients undergoing cardiac surgery . magnesium concentration was measured in the right atrial appendage of 100 patients undergoing cardiac surgery and associations with serum and mononuclear blood cell magnesium , other laboratory values and patient clinical variables were studied . in addition , magnesium was measured in the right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall in 23 autopsy subjects to determine whether there was a proportional relation between right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall magnesium . the mean left ventricular free wall/right atrial appendage magnesium ratio was 2.13 + / - 0.39 ( r = 0.67 , p = 0.0009 ) . in the group with cardiac surgery , the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated inversely with age ( r = -0.54 , p = 0.001 ) . the mean right atrial appendage magnesium concentration ( micrograms/g wet weight tissue ) was lower in patients with postoperative cardiac arrhythmia than in those without arrhythmia ( 103 + / - 13 versus 111 + / - 10 , p = 0.009 ) and in diabetic than in nondiabetic patients ( 103 + / - 13 versus 109 + / - 12 , p = 0.02 ) . the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration also tended to be lower in patients receiving potassium/magnesium-losing diuretics , although this difference did not achieve statistical significance ( 105 + / - 14 versus 109 + / - 11 , p = 0.16 ) . right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated positively with serum creatinine concentration ( r = 0.31 , p = 0.002 ) and negatively with serum calcium concentration ( r = -0.29 , p = 0.013 ) . serum magnesium did not correlate with right atrial appendage or mononuclear blood cell magnesium concentration or clinical variables . there was a statistically significant correlation between mononuclear blood cell and right atrial appendage magnesium concentrations in some subgroups of patients . 
role of thyroid hormone in the development of beta adrenergic control of ornithine decarboxylase in rat heart and kidney . the role of thyroid status in the ontogeny of beta adrenergic receptor control of ornithine decarboxylase ( odc ) activity was assessed in hearts and kidneys of neonatal rats . hyperthyroidism induced by administration of tri-iodothyronine on postnatal days 1 to 5 caused a reduction in the ability of isoproterenol to stimulate cardiac odc but subsequently accelerated the onset of the postweaning peak of the response ; the latter effect was even more prominent when tri-iodothyronine administration was given on postnatal days 14 to 18 . hypothyroidism induced by propylthiouracil administration led to persistent subsensitivity of the cardiac odc response to beta receptor stimulation . kidney odc , which does not become subject to beta receptor regulation until after weaning , was resistant to hyperthyroid-induced changes in reactivity , but hypothyroidism still resulted in long-term response deficits . these results suggest that thyroid hormone is permissive for normal development of the beta receptor-odc link , and that the euthyroid state provides the optimal conditions for maturation of this signal transduction mechanism . the relative resistance of kidney odc responses to alterations by hyperthyroidism further indicates that the effects of excess hormone can only be expressed when the receptor-enzyme link is already competent . finally , thyroid status had equivalent effects on the abilities of vasopressin or angiotensin to stimulate odc , suggesting that the site of thyroid hormone action is at a transduction locus common to several different receptor types . 
gonadotropin releasing hormones . clinical applications in gynecology . since the identification and synthesis of gonadotropin releasing hormones ( gnrh ) 19 years ago , over 2,000 gnrh analogs have been synthesized and evaluated for the treatment of a variety of conditions requiring temporary , reversible suppression or stimulation of gonadotropin secretion . effective stimulation of the gonads requires pulsatile administration of a gnrh agonist , preferably the native decapeptide itself . for gonadal suppression , superagonists have proven to be highly effective . intensive studies currently under way promise new and more innovative clinical applications of these compounds . 
progressive coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension : report of two cases . two cases of neurological deterioration and coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension and invasion of the 3rd ventricle are presented . emergency ventricular shunting led to prompt neurological improvement , which , supplemented by radiation therapy , allowed long-term amelioration of symptoms . three possible explanations for this complication are offered : 1 ) traction of the attached 3rd ventricle into the decompression site , causing increased obstructive hydrocephalus , 2 ) vasopressin release by surgical manipulation of the pituitary stalk and circumventricular organs causing cerebral edema , and 3 ) edema in the residual tumor secondary to surgical manipulation causing further hydrocephalus . subsequent patients with similar clinical and imaging criteria will have a planned perioperative ventricular shunting procedure performed . 
evolving natural history of coronary artery disease in diabetes mellitus . white diabetic patients are at high risk of developing coronary artery disease ( cad ) . the natural history of cad in insulin-dependent ( id ) and noninsulin-dependent ( nid ) diabetes mellitus ( dm ) is reviewed to gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for the development of premature or accelerated atherosclerosis in diabetic patients . in both iddm and niddm , the risk of cad increases with lengthening duration of diabetes ; the risk , however , does not grow as a constant multiple of the nondiabetic risk of cad , suggesting that the cumulative exposure to diabetes plays a significant role as a risk factor for cad only in a subset of patients . this is consistent with the hypothesis that the diabetic milieu has an impact on the progression of atherosclerotic lesions but not on their initiation . this hypothesis is corroborated further by the observation that cad does not occur in diabetic patients in populations with a low risk of cad among nondiabetic patients . the component of the diabetic milieu responsible for promotion of atherosclerotic lesions is unknown . there is evidence , however , of a direct or indirect role of hyperinsulinemia in this process . 
diabetic nephropathy : can the natural history be modified ? those diabetic patients who progress to advanced kidney disease constitute a subpopulation that is particularly vulnerable to the angiotoxic effects of the insulin-dependent disorder . until the predisposing factors are identified , the most effective way to arrest renal deterioration is by controlling those currently recognized risk factors that accelerate the glomerulopathy . treatments that normalize blood pressure , reduce dietary protein intake , and control hyperglycemia have been shown to retard the progression of diabetic nephropathy . 
genetics of common diseases of adulthood . implications for prenatal counseling and diagnosis . genetic factors play an important role in the development of many common diseases of adulthood that result in early morbidity and mortality . prevention of these disorders and their sequelae is best established through early detection and early intervention . although it may be feasible to screen the entire population for some disorders ( e.g. , hypertension ) , this approach would be expensive and impractical for others ( e.g. , colon cancer ) . the family history provides an inexpensive and convenient method of identifying families at risk for premature diseases of adulthood . family screening for a disorder should be recommended if there is increased risk for the disorder among family members , if screening methods are available to detect the condition at an early age or preclinical stage , and if early intervention will alter the course of the disease . for many disorders screening and intervention can prevent the occurrence of clinical disease . the prenatal counseling session affords an ideal setting for identifying families at risk for diseases of adulthood with major genetic components . by reviewing the family history , key family members can be identified and investigated , in order to establish a specific genetic diagnosis . at-risk relatives can then be counseled and screened for the disorder preclinically and premorbidly . the screening and intervention available for a disease depends on the nature of the disorder , our understanding of its physiology and etiology , and our current technology . the disorders discussed earlier are typical of conditions of adulthood that are influenced strongly by genetic factors , especially when they appear in younger adults . atherosclerosis , colon cancer , and diabetes are complex phenotypes . each can be caused by single-gene defects , but commonly the genetics are more complex . empiric data help to establish the risk to an individual in the latter cases . in all three examples , early detection should lead to treatment , which can prevent more serious sequelae : by treating the dyslipidemia , coronary artery disease can be prevented ; by removing the benign polyp , malignant cancer can be avoided ; and when impaired glucose tolerance is detected , diet and exercise can prevent or delay frank diabetes and its complications . the complete evaluation of individuals at risk for disorders such as those in table 1 and their families can be a complicated task . referral to a center experienced in the genetics of common diseases often may be necessary . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
bile acids in human plasma interfere with cholecystokinin bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini . a bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini was used to measure fasting plasma cholecystokinin ( cck ) concentrations in 105 patients with various kinds of gastrointestinal diseases , 17 patients with diabetes mellitus , and 6 healthy volunteers . high plasma cck bioactivities were observed in patients with obstructive jaundice , choledocolithiasis , and primary biliary cirrhosis . twenty-three samples with high cck bioactivities were assayed by the same bioassay after the addition of a specific cck antagonist and by a cck radioimmunoassay in order to determine whether the high cck-like bioactivity was due to circulating cck or other factors . high cck bioactivities were partially inhibited by the specific cck antagonist , cr-1409 , but the activities were not totally abolished . the residual bioactivities ( not inhibited by cr-1409 ) correlated with plasma bile acid concentrations . the inhibitable cck bioactivities correlated with plasma cck levels obtained by radioimmunoassay . although the bioassay using dispersed pancreatic acini has several advantages for measuring plasma cck , this method overestimates cck bioactivities in patients with high plasma bile acid concentrations . 
effects of cigarette smoking on thyroid function and the prevalence of goitre , thyrotoxicosis and autoimmune thyroiditis . the effect of smoking habits on thyroid function and the prevalence of thyroid diseases was studied in two birth cohorts ( 1928 and 1941 ) of men and women . a total of 1555 individuals ( 836 men and 719 women ) were smokers . 1048 individuals ( 604 men and 444 women ) were ex-smokers and 1497 individuals ( 560 men and 937 women ) were non-smokers . the serum thyrotropin ( tsh ) concentration was significantly lower in smokers than in ex-smokers and non-smokers ( p = 0.05 and p = 0.001 , respectively ) . smoking habits did not affect the serum triiodothyronine ( t3 ) concentrations . the prevalence of non-toxic goitre and toxic diffuse goitre was significantly higher in smoking women than in non-smoking women ( p = 0.005 and p = 0.04 , respectively ) . thiocyanate may be the goitrogenic factor responsible for the increased prevalence of non-toxic goitre . the cause of the increased prevalence of toxic diffuse goitre is less obvious . hypothetically , an increase in sympathetic activity in smokers may promote the development of thyrotoxicosis in predisposed individuals , but immunological disturbances caused by smoking are another possibility . 
potential role of insulin in the clearance of remnant lipoproteins in dysbetalipoproteinaemia . dysbetalipoproteinaemia is a genetic disorder characterized by accumulation of lipoprotein remnant particles in the plasma , accelerated atherosclerosis , and the abnormal apoprotein e2 . uncontrolled diabetes mellitus can aggravate the hyperlipidaemia associated with this disorder , presumably by increasing triglyceride synthesis and reducing very low density lipoprotein catabolism by lipoprotein lipase . this report documents the gradual amelioration of dysbetalipoproteinaemia in uncontrolled diabetes mellitus following therapy with exogenous insulin alone . although the beneficial effects of insulin therapy in this patient may include inhibition of triglyceride synthesis and improved triglyceride catabolism , we propose that insulin may also stimulate clearance of atherogenic remnant lipoprotein particles . 
fine-needle aspiration biopsy of head and neck lesions . the case records of 213 fine-needle aspiration biopsies ( fnab ) of head and neck masses performed on 209 patients over a 3-year period were reviewed to assess the diagnostic accuracy and safety of this technique in comparison with surgical histologic examination . cytologic diagnoses based on fnab were compared with histologic diagnoses in 110 patients who underwent surgery . based on cytology alone , 40.3 % of the lesions were reported as malignant , 45.1 % as benign , and 14.6 % as indeterminant . a specific cytologic diagnosis was made in 85.5 % of the cases . cytologic diagnoses concurred with surgical histologic diagnoses 90 % of the time . fine-needle aspiration biopsy was found to have a false-positive rate of 0.5 % and a false-negative rate of 2.3 % . the sensitivity and specificity of fnab in determining a malignant diagnosis were 81.1 % and 99 % , respectively . positive and negative predictive values were calculated at 98.9 % and 82.8 % , respectively . diagnostic rate , sensitivity , and negative predictive value increased consistently throughout the study period , indicating that the diagnostic accuracy of fnab improved with experience . 
hypercalciuria in parathyroid disorders : effect of dietary sodium control . moderate dietary na restriction ( 80 mmol/d for 7 days ) during constant ca intake can reduce high urinary ca excretion to normal levels in idiopathic hypercalciuria ( ih ) . a similar protocol was used to test its effect in primary hyperparathyroidism ( phpt ) and also in hypoparathyroid subjects ( hopt ) during treatment with dihydrotachysterol ( dht ) . nine subjects with phpt , 10 with hopt , and one with pseudo-hopt were evaluated after na-restricted ( 80 mmol/d ) and na-supplemented ( 200 mmol/d ) diets for 7 days each with dietary ca constant . na restriction resulted in a decrease in mean urinary 24-hour ca excretion in phpt subjects ( 10.6 v 7.6 mmol/d [ 424 v 304 mg ] , p less than 0.0001 ) and in one pseudo-hopt subject , similar to the pattern seen previously in ih subjects . in contrast , na restriction was not accompanied by significant change in ca excretion in hopt . there was no change in serum immunoreactive pth ( ipth ) or 1,25 ( oh ) 2 vitamin d levels in either group when na intake was altered . thus , the presence of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) is necessary for sodium-related alterations in urinary ca to occur . the effect of pth appears to be " permissive " rather than " active . " dietary na restriction may have a role in the management of hypercalciuria in mild phpt cases when parathyroidectomy is contraindicated . 
artifactual elevation of thyroid-stimulating hormone . a clinically euthyroid patient was found to have a normal serum thyroxine level and an elevated plasma thyrotropin ( tsh ) level measured by fluoroimmunoassay . thyroid hormone therapy failed to suppress the tsh level . the tsh level was unresponsive to thyrotropin-releasing hormone ( trh ) administration , alpha-subunits of pituitary glycoproteins were undetectable in her plasma , and imaging of the pituitary-hypothalamic region was normal . measurement of tsh with an assay containing sheep antibody to tsh failed to reveal tsh in the patient 's plasma . addition of mouse igg to the tsh fluoroimmunoassay reduced the patient 's tsh to an undetectable level . these observations are consistent with a spurious elevation of tsh due to the presence of an anti-mouse antibody . artifactual elevations of tsh have not been identified commonly , but this possibility should be considered when the tsh level is inappropriate for the apparent state of thyroid function . 
the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia in neuroleptic-treated diabetics . a controlled study . in a controlled study , we compared the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia in 38 neuroleptic-treated diabetics with the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia in a group of 38 nondiabetic neuroleptic-treated controls , matched for age , sex , psychiatric diagnosis , and dose and duration of neuroleptic treatment . members of each group were evaluated for movement disorders by a rater who used standard rating scales and was " blind " to all diagnoses and treatments . neuroleptic-treated diabetics had a significantly higher prevalence and severity of tardive dyskinesia . there were no differences between groups on other possible risk factors for tardive dyskinesia , including parkinsonism , anticholinergic drug treatment , or cognitive function . these data suggest that diabetes mellitus should be examined further as a risk factor for tardive dyskinesia . 
diabetes care in a rural primary health care district where patient education is given high priority . metabolic evaluation . the present population-based study comprises 84 % of all known diabetics cared for at a rural primary health care centre . patient education has been given high priority as an integral part of the treatment provided by a specially trained nurse and dietician under the supervision of the general practitioners . most of the patients were under good metabolic control , as reflected by hba1 ( diet-treated , n = 119 , 7.3 + / - 1.3 % ; oral agent-treated , n = 127 , 7.8 % + / - 1.3 % ; insulin-treated , n = 110 , 8.0 + / - 1.3 % ; reference range 5.3-7 .3 % ) . obvious reasons for any high hba1 values were found . 
plasma intact parathyroid hormone ( pth ) and pth-related peptide in familial benign hypercalcemia : greater responsiveness to endogenous pth than in primary hyperparathyroidism . the cause of hypercalcemia in familial benign hypercalcemia ( fbh ; also called familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia ) is unclear , although it is pth dependent . it is also uncertain how plasma pth levels are related to the severity of biochemical abnormalities in fbh . because the pth-related peptide ( pthrp ) has many pth-like actions , it might have a role in the hypercalcemia of fbh . thus , we studied 29 patients with fbh from 11 families , 29 age - and sex-matched controls , and 42 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism ( 1 degree hpt ) , measuring pth with a highly sensitive two-site immunochemiluminometric assay and the hypercalcemic tumor factor pth-related peptide ( pthrp ) with an extraction/concentration ria . plasma pth values were elevated in 86 % of 1 degree hpt patients ( 36 of 42 ) , but in only 20 % of fbh patients , ( 6 of 29 ) . plasma pthrp was elevated in 1 fbh patient , and the group mean value was normal . plasma pth was positively correlated with calcium ( ca ) in 1 degree hpt ( r = 0.66 ; p less than 0.0001 ) and in fbh ( r = 0.53 ; p less than 0.004 ) , but the slopes of the regressions were markedly different : 1 degree hpt , 6.72 ; fbh , 1.61 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . there was a negative correlation between pth and phosphorus ( p ) in 1 degree hpt ( r = -0.39 ; p less than 0.01 ) and in fbh ( r = -0.41 ; p less than 0.03 ) , but , again , the slopes differed greatly : 1 degree hpt , -6.57 ; fbh , -1.95 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . there were no correlations between pthrp and ca or between pth and pthrp . the sums and products of pth and pthrp were not better correlated with ca than pth alone . thus , pth values are lower at given ca and p levels in patients with fbh than in those with 1 degree hpt , suggesting that pth is more effective in raising ca and lowering p in fbh than in 1 degree hpt . the enigma of fbh remains : what molecular defect can simultaneously cause parathyroid cell insensitivity to ca , enhanced renal tubular reabsorption of ca , increased renal rejection of p , and enhanced or retained sensitivity to pth ? . 
a comparison of the efficacy and safety of pergolide and bromocriptine in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia . pergolide is a synthetic ergoline derivative with highly potent long-acting prl-lowering activity , allowing therapy of hyperprolactinemia with a once daily administration of the drug . the results of two open-label , randomized controlled multicenter clinical trials are reported . pergolide ( taken once a day ) , was compared with bromocriptine ( taken two to four times daily ) regarding efficacy and safety in the reduction of prl levels , the cessation of galactorrhea and amenorrhea , the improvement in sexual function , and tumor shrinkage in hyperprolactinemia without ( trial i ; 61 patients ) and with radiologically evident pituitary tumors ( trial ii ; 96 patients ) . both drugs were equally effective in lowering prl levels in both trials . a median optimal dose of 50 micrograms pergolide and 5 mg bromocriptine/day suppressed prl levels in the 61 patients of trial i by more than 80 % . during the 24-week investigational period galactorrhea disappeared in 96 % and 87 % of patients , whereas menstruation returned in 90 % and 96 % of patients , respectively . an equally high efficacy ( optimal median dose : 75-100 micrograms pergolide , 7.5-10 mg bromocriptine daily ) was observed in trial ii , although the resumption of menses was less frequent than in the patients of trial i ( 50 % and 58 % of patients , respectively ) . sexual dysfunction improved similarly on both drugs in about half the patients . in addition , tumor shrinkage occurred to a similar extent with both drugs . a high incidence of adverse events was noted especially at the initiation of therapy with both compounds : nausea , dizziness , vomiting , asthenia , headache , and decrease in blood pressure occurred at a similar incidence and extent during the use of pergolide and bromocriptine . patients in trial i treated with pergolide reported a slightly higher incidence of fever , vasodilatation , and flu syndrome . conclusions : in these 24-week studies comprising a total of 157 hyperprolactinemic patients , a once daily administration of pergolide was shown to be as safe and effective as the two to four times daily ingestion of bromocriptine . longer-acting dopamine agonists like pergolide that can be taken once daily , are likely to increase the ease to adherence to the therapeutic regimen . this might result in a higher compliance to medical treatment of hyperprolactinemia . 
preliminary characterization of growth factors secreted by human pituitary tumors . to investigate the secretion of mitogenic factors by human pituitary tumors we have cultured cells from 54 adenomas in serum-free medium . conditioned media from 28 ( 52 % ) elicited dose-dependent stimulation of [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation into rat gh3 cells ( 22-338 % above control ) , while 14 ( 26 % ) inhibited gh3 proliferation . stimulating activity was observed more frequently in nonfunctional tumor-conditioned medium ( 73 % ; n = 22 ) than in secretory tumor-conditioned medium ( 37 % ; n = 32 ) . of 10 tumour-conditioned media with mitogenic activity for gh3 cells , only 4 produced modest stimulation of hep2 ( human laryngeal carcinoma ) cells . in contrast , [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation into a431 ( human squamous carcinoma ) and pc12 ( rat adrenal pheochromocytoma ) cells was enhanced by each of 15 tumor-conditioned media ( up to 342 % and 275 % , respectively ) , 8 of which had shown stimulatory and 2 inhibitory effects on gh3 cells . gel filtration of pooled conditioned media from 10 nonfunctional tumors showed significant growth-promoting activity for gh3 cells in fractions corresponding to mol wt of 2-3 and 11-18 kda . proliferative activity on a431 cells also eluted in two positions ; one corresponded to the higher mol wt peak seen with gh3 cells , while the other , not observed with gh3 cells , was in the 3 - to 6-kda range . these findings suggest that cells derived from human pituitary adenoma tissue synthesize and secrete several growth factors , each of which may have its own target cell specificities . these factors have yet to be characterized , but we suggest that they may have a role in stimulating the development or maintenance of human pituitary adenomas . 
pneumocystis carinii infection of the thyroid in a hypothyroid patient with aids : diagnosis by fine needle aspiration biopsy . a 49-yr-old homosexual man with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome presented with a left-sided neck mass . he was found to have a firm goiter . he was clinically euthyroid , but had laboratory evidence of primary hypothyroidism . radioactive iodine scan of the thyroid showed homogeneous uptake over an enlarged right lobe and absence of uptake over the left lobe . two fine needle aspiration biopsies of the thyroid revealed the presence of pneumocystis carinii ( p. carinii ) organisms on the gomori 's methenamine silver strain . after courses of iv and oral therapy with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole , a third fine needle aspiration biopsy failed to reveal any organisms . a repeated radioactive iodine scan of the thyroid showed return of uptake over the left lobe . thyroid function tests normalized with levothyroxine , and the goiter decreased in size . to our knowledge , this is the first report of hypothyroidism associated with p. carinii infection of the thyroid . p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus infected individuals presenting with cold thyroid nodules . fine needle aspiration biopsy is a valuable tool in assessing these patients . 
increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations in hyperthyroid states . serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were determined in 21 untreated hyperthyroid patients ( 12 with graves ' disease , and nine with toxic nodular adenoma ) and in 20 healthy controls . all subjects had normal serum creatinine concentrations and urine analysis . both total and free thyroid hormones were significantly higher in the hyperthyroid groups than in controls . beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were significantly increased in both groups of hyperthyroid patients compared with controls . no difference was found in the thyroid hormone and beta 2-microglobulin concentrations between both sets of patients . the beta 2-microglobulin and thyroid hormone concentrations were not correlated . these data show that hyperthyroidism is another cause of increased beta 2-microglobulin production along with viral infections , immunologically mediated diseases , and malignant neoplasms . the increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentration in thyroid hyperfunction is probably related to metabolic rate , even if autoimmunity might contribute to its overproduction . 
observer variation in the clinical assessment of the thyroid gland . in order to evaluate the reliability of clinical assessment of the thyroid gland , two specialists in endocrinology and two younger doctors independently examined 53 patients twice , and assessed whether they had a diffuse goitre , a multinodular goitre , a solitary nodule or a normal gland . in 30 % of the patients all four observers were in agreement , whereas in 47 % and 23 % of the patients , two and three different diagnoses were given , respectively . inter-observer variation was determined and kappa values between -0.04 and 0.54 were found . intra-observer variation was smaller , revealing kappa values between 0.44 and 1.00 . the present study suggests that clinical assessment of the thyroid gland may lead to misclassification of the type of thyroid disease , and thereby to a less than optimal choice of therapy . 
contrasting effects of lisinopril and nifedipine on albuminuria and tubular transport functions in insulin dependent diabetics with nephropathy . an open , randomized , cross-over study was undertaken to assess the effects of lisinopril and nifedipine on albumin excretion , renal haemodynamics and segmental tubular reabsorption in overt diabetic nephropathy . the study consisted of a 4-week run-in period , a 3-week active treatment period , a 4-week wash-out period and a second 3-week active treatment period . twelve patients with type 1 diabetes with albuminuria , mild to moderate hypertension and a serum creatinine level of less than 200 mumol l-1 were included . lisinopril reduced albumin excretion from 1343 + / - 337 micrograms min-1 to 879 + / - 299 micrograms min-1 ( p less than 0.01 ) , whereas nifedipine was without effect , 1436 + / - 336 micrograms min-1 vs. 1319 + / - 342 micrograms min-1 . glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) was unchanged by either drug . both drugs increased effective renal plasma flow ( erpf ) by about 20 % . no differences between the drugs were observed with regard to their effect on renal haemodynamic parameters . by contrast , nifedipine exerted an inhibitory effect on several proximal tubular transport markers , whereas lisinopril was without effect . the different actions on tubular transport mechanisms exerted by lisinopril and nifedipine may contribute to the observed effect on albumin excretion . 
transient hypoparathyroidism during acute alcohol intoxication . background . persons with chronic alcoholism frequently have hypocalcemia , hypomagnesemia , and osteoporosis . the short-term effects of alcohol ingestion on calcium and magnesium metabolism are poorly understood , however . methods . we measured serum calcium , magnesium , and phosphate concentrations in 17 normal men and 7 normal women before and at intervals up to 16 hours after the ingestion of 1.2 to 1.5 g of alcohol per kilogram of body weight over a 3-hour period ( doses sufficient to cause acute intoxication ) . urinary excretion of calcium , magnesium , and phosphate and serum calciotropic hormone levels were measured in 16 of these subjects . as a control , the same measurements were made after the ingestion of fruit juice instead of alcohol . results . the mean ( + / - se ) peak blood alcohol level in the men was 37.5 + / - 1.6 mmol per liter , and in the women it was 38.0 + / - 3.2 mmol per liter . in the men the mean serum parathyroid hormone concentration decreased from 16.1 + / - 2.1 to 6.8 + / - 0.9 ng per liter at the end of the three-hour drinking period . the value at this time was 30 percent of that at the end of the three-hour session during which the men drank fruit juice ( p = 0.004 ) . the serum concentration of ionized calcium reached a nadir eight hours after the beginning of alcohol administration ( decreasing from 1.18 + / - 0.01 to 1.15 + / - 0.01 mmol per liter ; p less than 0.001 as compared with values during the fruit-juice study ) , and urinary excretion of calcium increased from 0.34 + / - 0.08 to 0.36 + / - 0.08 mmol per hour ( p less than 0.01 as compared with values during the fruit-juice study ) . serum parathyroid hormone levels exceeded base-line values during the last 4 hours of the 16-hour study period ; this increase was accompanied by a decrease in the urinary excretion of calcium . both serum levels of magnesium ( in the first 6 hours ) and urinary levels ( in the first 12 hours ) increased after the ingestion of alcohol . in the women , serum parathyroid hormone levels decreased from 29.2 + / - 2.8 to 17.3 + / - 2.6 ng per liter two hours after the administration of alcohol was begun ( p less than 0.001 ) and increased above base-line values during the last four hours of the study period . the serum concentration of ionized calcium decreased from 1.20 + / - 0.01 to 1.16 + / - 0.01 mmol per liter , reaching a nadir 8 to 12 hours after alcohol administration was begun ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions . short-term alcohol administration causes transitory hypoparathyroidism . this decline in the secretion of parathyroid hormone accounts at least in part for the transient hypocalcemia , hypercalciuria , and hypermagnesuria that follow alcohol ingestion . 
postoperative computed tomographic evaluation of patients with large pituitary tumors treated with operative decompression and radiation therapy . thirty consecutive patients who underwent operative decompression and radiation therapy for large sellar and suprasellar pituitary tumors ( greater than or equal to 2 cm ) were studied in terms of the serial computed tomographic ( ct ) changes . there were 23 men and 7 women . the mean age was 49.6 + / - 2.5 years , and the mean follow-up was 45.3 + / - 3.9 months . twenty-eight of the 30 patients had transsphenoidal surgery , and 27 had hormonally inactive tumors . radiation therapy was begun within 1 month of surgery with a mean dose of 4855 + / - 70 cgy . postoperative ct scans were obtained within 1 month of surgery and at 6 - to 12-month intervals thereafter . fourteen patients ( 45 % ) had no suprasellar tumor visualized in either the early postoperative ct scans or on subsequent scans . eleven patients ( 35 % ) had a persistent suprasellar mass during the early postoperative period that resolved on serial ct evaluation . the mean time for resolution was 10.4 + / - 1.2 months . six patients ( 20 % ) had a persistent suprasellar mass on serial ct evaluation . a persistent postoperative mass that subsequently resolved in many of the patients was thought to be caused by the gradual retraction of the postoperative packing and hematoma , as well as the effect of radiation on any residual tumor . 
abnormalities of glucose tolerance following gestational diabetes . glucose tolerance and insulin secretion were studied in 56 women 6-12 years following a pregnancy complicated by gestational diabetes , and in 23 matched controls . at recall 14 women were known to have diabetes and five were again pregnant with recurrent gestational diabetes . the early development of diabetes was associated with a fasting plasma glucose greater than 6 mmol/l during pregnancy and with a high plasma glucose response to oral glucose which persisted after delivery . obesity was predictive of non-insulin-dependent diabetes whereas those that later required insulin were not obese . at recall , seven of the remaining 37 women were found to have unrecognized diabetes , 13 had impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) and 17 were normal by who criteria using a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test . in these 37 women , fasting plasma glucose and the glucose response to oral glucose in pregnancy were not predictive of subsequent diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance . obesity in pregnancy and subsequent weight gain were associated with non-insulin-dependent diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance at recall . insulin deficiency was observed during the oral glucose tolerance test in the diabetics ( the mean + / - sem ratio insulin area : glucose area 4.1 + / - 1.3 diabetics , 10.7 + / - 1.8 controls , p less than 0.05 ) , whereas in the group with impaired glucose tolerance insulin levels were high and in proportion to their hyperglycaemia ( insulin area : glucose area 10.9 + / - 1.4 igt , 9.4 + / - 1.4 controls ) . women with normal glucose tolerance and previous gestational diabetes had significantly lower insulin responses than their controls , despite mild hyperglycaemia ( insulin area : glucose area 4.0 + / - 0.7 normal glucose tolerance , 7.6 + / - 1.1 controls , p less than 0.02 ) . abnormalities of glucose tolerance and insulin secretion are present following a gestational diabetic pregnancy . gestational diabetes identifies women at risk for developing diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance , both of which are risk factors for premature vascular disease . 
incidence , causes and mechanism of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong . to determine the incidence and causes of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong , all 29,107 samples received in the laboratory in one year were analysed for plasma calcium and albumin , and samples with a plasma calcium concentration adjusted for albumin greater than 2.55 mmol/l were investigated . plasma calcium greater than 2.55 mmol/l was found in 462 patients . repeat samples were received from 302 of these and hypercalcaemia was confirmed in 183 . the main causes of hypercalcaemia were malignancy ( 72.1 per cent ) , tuberculosis ( 6.0 per cent ) , and primary hyperparathyroidism ( 5.5 per cent ) . in the malignant hypercalcaemia group , carcinoma of lung was the most common ( 31.8 per cent ) and carcinoma of breast was uncommon ( 3.0 per cent ) . secondary deposits in bone were detected in 35 of the 122 solid tumours . in order to identify the mechanism of hypercalcaemia the contributions of renal tubular reabsorption and increased bone resorption to the plasma calcium concentration were calculated . increased tubular reabsorption was the main contributor to hypercalcaemia in primary hyperparathyroidism and carcinoma of liver ( none of whom had bony metastases ) and it contributed significantly to hypercalcaemia in carcinoma of lung without bony metastases and carcinoma of oesophagus . we conclude that in hong kong ( a ) primary hyperparathyroidism is uncommon , ( b ) tuberculosis is an important cause and ( c ) humoral factors may be responsible for a relatively high proportion of cases of malignant hypercalcaemia . 
somatostatin and analogues in the treatment of cancer . a review somatostatin is a naturally occurring cyclic tetradecapeptide that inhibits release of growth hormone and all gastrointestinal hormones . the beneficial effect of somatostatin in the treatment of certain hypersecretory disorders of hormone excess in well recognized ; however its clinical usefulness has been limited in the past by its extremely short plasma half-life . the development of long-acting somatostatin analogues has provided clinically useful agents for treatment of hormone-producing tumors . in addition to well-known inhibiting effects on hormone release and actions , recent studies using experimental tumor models have demonstrated an antiproliferative effect of somatostatin and its analogues on growth of a variety of neoplasms . the exact role of somatostatin analogues in cancer therapy has yet to be established ; however studies suggest that these agents could provide a useful and relatively nontoxic adjuvant therapy in the treatment of certain tumors . in this review , the oncologic application of somatostatin and possible mechanism of action are examined and current clinical and experimental studies are summarized . 
smoking during pregnancy : a significant cause of neonatal thyroid enlargement . the influence of maternal smoking during pregnancy on the function and the echographic volume of the neonatal thyroid gland was examined in an area of borderline iodine intake ( median maternal urinary iodine : 315 range 79-1558 nmol/l ) . there was a positive correlation ( p less than 0.001 ) between cord serum thiocyanate ( scn ) concentrations used as an index of maternal smoking and the maternal smoking habits . the thyroid volume/birthweight ratio increased significantly as a function of scn values ( p less than 0.005 ) : this increase was secondary to a decrease in birthweight as well as to an increase in thyroid volume . there was also a positive correlation between cord serum thyroglobulin ( tg ) and scn levels ( p = 0.001 ) . serum thyroid-stimulating hormone ( tsh ) and free thyroxine ( ft4 ) values remained within the normal range for age in all newborn infants and were not significantly correlated with scn values . these results show that smoking during pregnancy in areas with borderline iodine intake may be a significant cause of thyroid enlargement in the newborn . 
comparison between perindopril and nifedipine in hypertensive and normotensive diabetic patients with microalbuminuria . melbourne diabetic nephropathy study group objective -- to compare the efficacy of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition with calcium antagonism in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria . design -- randomised study of diabetic patients with microalbuminuria treated with perindopril or nifedipine for 12 months and monitored for one or three months after stopping treatment depending on whether they were hypertensive or normotensive . patients were randomised separately according to whether they were hypertensive or normotensive . setting -- diabetic clinics in three university teaching hospitals . patients -- 50 diabetic patients with persistent microalbuminuria . in all , 43 completed the study : 30 were normotensive and 13 hypertensive ; 19 had type i diabetes and 24 had type ii diabetes . interventions -- for 12 months 20 patients were given perindopril 2-8 mg daily and 23 were given nifedipine 20-80 mg daily . main outcome measures -- albumin excretion rate , blood pressure , and glomerular filtration rate . results -- both perindopril and nifedipine significantly reduced mean blood pressure . during treatment there was no significant difference between those treated with perindopril and those treated with nifedipine with respect to albuminuria or mean blood pressure . stopping treatment with both drugs was associated with a sustained increase in albuminuria and mean blood pressure . there was a significant correlation between mean blood pressure and albuminuria and also between the reduction in mean blood pressure and the decrease in albuminuria during treatment with both drugs . in hypertensive patients both drugs caused significant decreases in mean blood pressure and albuminuria . in normotensive patients there was no significant reduction in albuminuria with either regimen . conclusions -- in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria blood pressure seems to be an important determinant of urinary albumin excretion . perindopril and nifedipine have similar effects on urinary albumin excretion , both preventing increases in albuminuria in normotensive patients and decreasing albuminuria in hypertensive patients . 
misinterpretation of the upper parathyroid adenoma on thallium-201 / technetium-99m subtraction scintigraphy . pre-operative thallium-technetium subtraction scintigraphy of 50 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism , which was subsequently proven on histology to be due to an adenoma , was compared with operative findings . six scans were negative and seven uninterpretable . of the remaining 37 patients , 34 had correct scan prediction of the anatomical locations of the adenomas . on examination of the origins of the adenomas , all six scintigraphic predictions of upper adenomas corresponded to tumours arising from the upper gland found at operation . of the 25 lower predictions , there was one false positive and 16 were correct , i.e. of lower gland origin , but eight were found to originate from the upper gland . this misinterpretation is though to be due to the prolapse of an adenoma arising from the upper gland towards the lower pole of the thyroid , thereby mimicking a lower lesion on the scan . 
solitary thyroid nodule : a prospective evaluation of nuclear scanning and ultrasonography . the aim of this study was to assess prospectively the value of thyroid nuclear scans and ultrasound examination in the preoperative investigation of patients with a solitary thyroid nodule . total thyroid lobectomy for a solitary thyroid nodule was performed in 68 cases . each patient had a thyroid isotope scan ( except two women who were pregnant ) and thyroid ultrasound examination . there were 10 ( 15 per cent ) malignant nodules , 11 ( 16 per cent ) benign neoplastic nodules and 47 ( 69 per cent ) benign non-neoplastic nodules . all of the patients with malignant nodules who were scanned had a solitary cold nodule on thyroid scan , as did 40 ( 69 per cent ) of those with benign solitary nodules . ultrasound examination of the thyroid suggested correctly that one of 16 ( 6 per cent ) cystic lesions , four of 16 ( 25 per cent ) complex solid-cystic lesions and three of 18 ( 17 per cent ) of solid lesions were malignant . one lesion reported as multinodular on ultrasonography and one reported as normal also turned out to be malignant . thyroid isotope scans and ultrasound do not accurately differentiate between benign and malignant conditions and their routine use in the investigation of a solitary thyroid nodule should be abandoned . 
is islet amyloid polypeptide a significant factor in pathogenesis or pathophysiology of diabetes ? islet amyloid polypeptide ( iapp ) or amylin , a recently discovered minor secretory peptide of the beta-cell related to calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) , is a constituent of amyloid deposits in the islets of many non-insulin-dependent ( type ii ) diabetic individuals and some elderly nondiabetic subjects . iapp is synthesized as a small precursor at a level of approximately 1 % that of insulin and is processed , amidated , stored in beta-granules , and released along with insulin and c-peptide . analysis of its gene ( located on chromosome 12 ) supports an evolutionary relationship to calcitonin and cgrp , peptides with which it shares some biological actions . like cgrp , iapp antagonizes the action of insulin mainly at the level of muscle glycogen synthesis , but the levels required for this effect seem to be considerably higher than reported circulating levels . no evidence for overproduction of iapp in diabetic subjects has been found thus far , but much more work is necessary to define its normal secretory rates and clearance . other proposed actions of iapp include serum calcium-lowering effects and smooth muscle relaxation ; the latter effect might promote the uptake of insulin into the circulation within the islets . deposition of amyloid is species selective due to structural differences within the central part of the molecule and may be initiated intracellularly in type ii diabetes by several mechanisms . no differences in the structure of iapp or its precursor have been found in individuals with maturity-onset diabetes of the young or type ii diabetes . 
newly identified pancreatic protein islet amyloid polypeptide . what is its relationship to diabetes ? islet amyloid polypeptide ( iapp ) or amylin is a newly identified 37-amino acid cooh-terminal-amidated polypeptide that is the major protein constituent of amyloid deposits in insulinomas and amyloid deposits in pancreatic islets of non-insulin-dependent ( type ii ) diabetic humans and adult diabetic cats . iapp is stored with insulin in beta-cell secretory vesicles and is cosecreted with insulin in response to glucose and several secretagogues . iapp has been demonstrated in normal pancreatic islets of many species , but iapp-derived amyloid develops commonly in the islets of only a few species ( e.g. , humans and cats ) , especially in association with age-related diabetes . iapp from the human and cat inherently contains a short amyloidogenic sequence that is not present in species that do not form islet amyloid . studies in animals indicate that an aberration in the synthesis or processing of iapp , leading to a local increase in concentration of iapp in the islet , is also required to facilitate the conversion of iapp to amyloid . the formation of islet amyloid may contribute to the development of type ii diabetes by causing disruption of islet cells and by replacement of islets . it has also been proposed that an abnormality of iapp homeostasis underlies the pathogenesis of type ii diabetes . a significant causal relationship between iapp and type ii diabetes is based on reports that iapp inhibits glucose-stimulated insulin release by beta-cells and that iapp inhibits insulin-stimulated rates of glycogen synthesis and glucose uptake by skeletal muscle cells . 
immunobiological consequence of regulation of insulin receptor on alloactivated lymphocytes in normal and obese subjects . acute manipulations of insulin in vivo regulate the display of insulin receptors induced on activated t lymphocytes after presentation of alloantigen . this study explored the immunobiological consequences of regulation of insulin-receptor display by acute manipulations of insulin achieved during the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp in healthy normal individuals and obese subjects . t lymphocytes were isolated at 0 , 1 , and 4 h of hyperinsulinemia from seven normal volunteers and seven obese individuals and studied for their capacity to 1 ) synthesize a complement of insulin receptors on cell membrane , 2 ) respond to alloantigen in the mixed-lymphocyte culture ( an immunologic activity unrelated to manipulations in insulin concentrations in complete medium ) , and 3 ) respond to the lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity reaction ( an immunologic activity known to be modulated by insulin ) . in the face of a reduction in receptor numbers to 25 % of baseline in normal individuals , alloreactivity in the mixed-lymphocyte culture was not affected ( 95 + / - 9 % of time 0 after 4 h of hyperinsulinemia ) , whereas lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity fell from 14 + / - 4 at time 0 to 2 + / - 2 % sp cr release ( p less than 0.02 ) . hyperinsulinemia achieved by the clamp in seven obese subjects did not alter the synthesis of insulin receptors on cell membrane after presentation of alloantigen . in the absence of further reduction of insulin-receptor membrane display , neither the mixed-lymphocyte culture nor lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity reaction was affected . it is concluded that those immunologic activities of lymphocytes that can be modulated by insulin are affected by regulation of insulin-receptor display on activated lymphocytes . therefore , receptor regulation is not effete but carries significant immunologic consequence . 
increased incidence of diabetes mellitus in relation to abdominal adiposity in older women . the relationship between body fat distribution , measured by the ratio of waist-to-hip circumferences ( whr ) , and the 2 year incidence of diabetes mellitus was examined in a cohort of 41,837 women aged 55-69 years . the 399 women who reported the new onset of diabetes had a significantly greater mean body mass index ( kg/m2 ) and whr than non-cases . after adjustment for body mass index ( bmi ) , age and education level using multivariate logistic regression , whr was a significant independent predictor of diabetes in a dose-response fashion . cases were 4.6 times ( 95 % ci = 3.8 , 5.6 ) more likely than non-cases to be in the upper tertile of whr and 2.2 times ( 95 % ci = 1.8 , 2.7 ) more likely to be in the middle tertile . women in the highest tertiles of both whr and bmi had a 14.4-fold ( 95 % ci = 9.5 , 21.9 ) higher risk of diabetes than women in the lowest tertiles . these results demonstrate that increased abdominal adiposity is a significant independent risk factor for the development of diabetes mellitus in older women . 
charcot 's disease in diabetic patients . correct diagnosis can prevent progressive deformity . although charcot 's disease and its association with diabetes have been described many times in the literature , it is still often misdiagnosed and incorrectly treated as osteomyelitis , arthritis , or gout . the best safeguard is a high index of suspicion . a warm , swollen foot in a diabetic patient with long-standing neuropathy without local or systemic signs of infection must be considered charcot 's disease until proven otherwise . the principal treatment is total abstinence from putting weight on the foot until warmth , swelling , and redness subside . protective weight-bearing methods may then be slowly instituted . 
premixed insulins . how do they compare with other insulin preparations ? with the availability of premixed insulins , physicians and diabetic patients have a wider choice of therapeutic options . the premixed preparation now available in the united states consists of 70 % nph insulin and 30 % regular insulin . the major advantages of premixed insulins are convenience and improved accuracy . they are suitable for patients who are too impaired to mix their own insulin dose and for those whose mixed-dose ratio is similar to that of the 70/30 preparation . 
portable blood glucose meters . teaching patients how to correctly monitor diabetes . self-monitoring of blood glucose is an important component of treatment in patients with diabetes . recent improvements in glucose meters have made patient self-testing more reliable and less dependent on user technique . however , success of the process depends on the training , reassessment , and support of the patient by the healthcare team . 
direct evidence that ganglioside is an integral component of the thyrotropin receptor . gangliosides were extracted from purified human and porcine thyrotropin ( tsh ) receptors ( tsh-r ) and were detected by probing with an 125i-labeled sialic acid-specific lectin , limax flavus agglutinin . gangliosides copurified with human and porcine tsh-r migrated between monosialoganglioside gm1 and disialoganglioside gd1a . ceramide glycanase digestion of the purified human tsh-r-associated glycolipid confirmed its ganglioside nature . it was resistant to vibrio cholerae sialidase , which digests all gangliosides except gm1 , but was sensitive to arthrobacter ureafaciens sialidase , which digests all gangliosides including gm1 . these findings indicate that the human tsh-r contains ganglioside that belongs to the galactosyl ( beta 1 ---- 3 ) - n-acetylgalactosaminyl ( beta 1 ---- 4 ) - [ n-acetylneuraminyl ( alpha 2 ---- 3 ) ] galactosyl ( beta 1 ---- 4 ) glucosyl ( beta 1 ---- 1 ) ceramide ( gm1 ) family . its intimate association with receptor protein implies a key role for ganglioside in the structure and function of the tsh-r . 
hypogonadal impotence treated by transdermal testosterone . the transdermal therapeutic system for testosterone ( tts-t ) ( alza corp. ) , applied to the scrotal skin for twenty-two hours daily , was tested for twelve weeks on 4 men with hypogonadal impotence ; 2 of these men wore tts-t for as long as twenty-six months . the 40 cm2 system delivered a daily dose of 2.8 + / - 0.16 ( s.e. ) mg ( nominal dose 2.4 mg ) and the 60 cm2 system delivered a dose of 3.99 + / - 0.24 mg ( nominal dose 3.6 mg ) . both systems promptly increased serum testosterone and dihydrotestosterone ( dht ) to physiologic levels , restoring normal erectile activity with an increased frequency of ejaculation and a positive effect on both mood and energy . there were no changes in serum sex binding globulin and estradiol , prostate or breast size , hematologic or liver function measures , or urinary flow and frequency . there were no significant changes in serum cholesterol or low-density lipoproteins , but high-density lipoproteins tended to decline slightly . there were no dermatologic problems associated with the system . the tenfold increase in dht over baseline levels was attributed to 5-alpha reduction of testosterone in the scrotal skin . the tts-t is convenient , reliable , and mimics normal physiologic testosterone secretion and levels more closely than conventional methods of testosterone replacement . 
diabetic nephropathy : changing concepts of pathogenesis and treatment . the metabolic changes which accompany hyperglycemia in a person with diabetes are thought to cause renal hyperperfusion and intraglomerular hypertension , especially in the person with a predisposition to essential hypertension . intraglomerular hypertension causing deposition of protein in the mesangium leads to glomerulosclerosis and renal failure . screening for microalbuminuria can predict which type i diabetic patients will develop nephropathy . the decline in renal function in established diabetic nephropathy can be slowed with aggressive treatment of hypertension . the use of ace inhibitors may also decrease intraglomerular hypertension . whether similar treatment in the person with preclinical diabetic nephropathy would delay or prevent the onset of diabetic nephropathy is being investigated . restricted protein intake , anti-platelet and rheolitic drugs may have a role in the treatment of established diabetic nephropathy . in end stage renal failure , renal transplantation is the treatment of choice . when transplantation can not be performed , chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis is preferable to hemodialysis . 
prevalence and association of asteroid hyalosis with systemic diseases . we performed a cross-sectional study of 12,205 patients , which identified 101 patients ( 0.83 % ) with asteroid hyalosis . these patients were examined for associated systemic and ocular conditions . diabetes mellitus was found in 29 of the patients with asteroid hyalosis ( 29 % ) , as compared to ten of 101 ( 10 % ) control subjects ( p = .0007 ) . an increased prevalence of systemic arterial hypertension ( 61 of 101 [ 60 % ] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 29 of 101 [ 29 % ] control subjects ; p = .0001 ) and atherosclerotic vascular disease ( 30 of 101 [ 30 % ] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 13 of 101 [ 13 % ] control subjects ; p = .006 ) was also discovered in the asteroid hyalosis group . additionally , patients with asteroid hyalosis were found to be more hyperopic than control subjects ( p = .009 ) . 
