effects of recombinant human interleukin-3 in aplastic anemia . in a phase i/ii study , nine patients with aplastic anemia were treated with recombinant human interleukin-3 ( rhil-3 ) to assess the toxicity and biologic effects of this multipotential hematopoietic growth factor . doses ranging from 250 micrograms/m2 to 500 micrograms/m2 were administered as subcutaneous bolus injections daily for 15 days . an increase in platelet counts from 1,000 / microl to 31,000 / microl was induced by rhil-3 in one patient , and an increase in reticulocyte counts by more than 10,000 / microl in four patients . the blood leukocyte counts temporarily increased in eight patients 1.5 - to 3.3-fold ( median , 1.8-fold ) , mainly due to an increase in the number of neutrophils , eosinophils , lymphocytes , and monocytes . in two patients , bone marrow cellularity increased from 7 % to 33 % and from 10 % to 80 % , respectively , but without resulting in a substantial improvement of peripheral blood counts . mild side effects ( headache and flushing ) were observed in some patients , while low-grade fever occurred in all patients . transient thrombocytopenia necessitating discontinuation of rhil-3 treatment occurred in one patient . in conclusion , rhil-3 can stimulate hematopoiesis in patients with aplastic anemia ; however , no lasting effects were obtained . 
impact of marrow cytogenetics and morphology on in vitro hematopoiesis in the myelodysplastic syndromes : comparison between recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( csf ) and granulocyte-monocyte csf . marrow cells from 36 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes ( mds ) ( 13 refractory anemia [ ra ] , 14 refractory anemia with excess of blasts [ raeb ] , 9 raeb in transformation [ raeb-t ] ) were evaluated for their in vitro proliferative and differentiative responsiveness to recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) or granulocyte-monocyte csf ( gm-csf ) . gm-csf exerted a stronger proliferative stimulus than g-csf for marrow myeloid clonal growth ( cfu-gm ) in these patients ( 44 v 12 colonies per 10 ( 5 ) nonadherent buoyant bone marrow cells [ nab ] , respectively , p less than .025 ) . gm-csf stimulated increased cfu-gm growth in the 16 patients with abnormal marrow cytogenetics in comparison with the 20 patients who had normal cytogenetics ( 52 and 30 colonies per 10 ( 5 ) nab , respectively , p less than .05 ) , whereas no such difference could be demonstrated with g-csf ( 11 and 16 colonies per 10 ( 5 ) nab , respectively ) . in contrast , granulocytic differentiation of marrow cells was induced in liquid culture by g-csf in 15 of 32 ( 47 % patients ) , while gm-csf did so in only 4 of 18 ( 22 % ) patients ( p less than .025 ) including , for raeb/raeb-t patients : 9 of 18 versus 0 of 9 , respectively ( p less than .025 ) . for mds patients with normal cytogenetics , g-csf - and gm-csf-induced marrow cell granulocytic differentiation in 12 of 18 ( 67 % ) versus 3 of 11 ( 27 % ) , respectively ( p less than .025 ) , contrasted with granulocytic induction in only 3 of 14 ( 21 % ) and 1 of 7 ( 14 % ) patients with abnormal cytogenetics , respectively . we conclude that g-csf has greater granulocytic differentiative and less proliferative activity for mds marrow cells than gm-csf in vitro , particularly for raeb/raeb-t patients and those with normal cytogenetics . 
a specific in vitro bioassay for measuring erythropoietin levels in human serum and plasma . the accurate measurement of biologically active erythropoietin ( ep ) in human serum and plasma using present in vivo and in vitro bioassays is difficult because of the presence of both inhibitors and non-ep stimulators of erythropoiesis . we have developed a simple procedure to quantitatively purify ep from serum and plasma for subsequent testing in the phenylhydrazine-treated mouse spleen cell assay . the method involves absorption of ep to an immobilized high-affinity anti-ep monoclonal antibody and acid elution of the antibody-bound material . after neutralization , the eluted ep is then tested directly in the in vitro bioassay without interference by other serum proteins . by using magnetic beads as a solid support for the antibody , washing and elution steps can be performed rapidly and efficiently . recoveries of ep after this procedure show very little sample-to-sample variation and are consistently between 45 % and 55 % , which is close to the maximum binding expected for the anti-ep antibody . coupled with the 7.4-fold concentration that this procedure affords , there is an overall increase in sensitivity of three - to fourfold , which makes this assay suitable for accurately measuring ep levels in patients with below-average titers . results with this magnetic bead assay indicate that accurate and reproducible estimates for ep levels in the serum and plasma from healthy donors as well as from patients with hematologic disorders can be obtained . titers of biologically active ep in the sera from a group of patients with either leukemia or lymphoma were found to be elevated , and the values correlated well with titers of immunoreactive ep measured in the ep radioimmunoassay . because of its specificity and high sensitivity , the magnetic bead assay is a valuable alternative to immunoassays for the measurement of elevated , normal , and even subnormal ep levels in human serum and plasma . 
transfusion and alloimmunization in sickle cell disease . the cooperative study of sickle cell disease . in 1,814 patients with sickle cell disease who had been transfused , the overall rate of alloimmunization to erythrocyte antigens was 18.6 % . the rate of alloimmunization in this group appears to be an explicit function of the number of transfusions received because it increases exponentially with increasing numbers of transfusions . alloimmunization usually occurred with less than 15 transfusions , although the rate of alloimmunization continued to increase when more transfusions were given . the rate of alloimmunization was less in patients with hemoglobin sc disease and sickle-beta + thalassemia because these patients had received fewer transfusions . children less than 10 years old had a slightly lower rate of alloimmunization than patients in other age groups even after correction for the number of transfusions given . women were more frequently alloimmunized than men ; this was largely due to the fact that women received more transfusions than men , but in the age group 16 to 20 years the increase may have been due in part to alloimmunization owing to pregnancy . forty-five percent of those alloimmunized made antibodies of only one specificity ; 17 % made four or more antibodies reacting with different antigens . antibodies to the c and e antigens of the rh group , the kell antigen , and the lewis antigens were most commonly made . these findings may be important in formulating a rational transfusion policy in sickle cell disease . 
effects of recombinant human interleukin-3 on human hematopoietic progenitor and precursor cells in vivo . dna-synthesis rates and concentrations of bone marrow ( bm ) and peripheral blood ( pb ) progenitor cells were studied in 22 patients treated with recombinant human interleukin-3 ( rhil3 ) as part of a clinical phase i/ii study . recombinant hil3 at doses of 60 to 500 micrograms/m2 was administered by subcutaneous bolus injection for 15 days to 13 patients with solid tumors and preserved hematopoietic function and to nine patients with bone marrow failure , including five with myelodysplastic syndromes . following treatment with rhil3 , the percentage of actively cycling bm erythroid ( bfu-e ) and multilineage ( cfu-gemm ) progenitors in patients with preserved hematopoietic function increased from 16 % to 36 % ( p less than .05 ) and from 10 % to 40 % ( p less than .01 ) , respectively . the dna-synthesis rates of early and late granulocyte macrophage progenitor cells increased from 11 % to 26 % ( cfu-gm day 14 ; p less than .02 ) and from 13 % to 30 % ( cfu-gm day 7 ; p less than .05 ) . there was an increase in bm cellularity from 37 % to 58 % , and of the myeloid to erythroid ratio from 1.4 to 3.2 , while the concentration of marrow progenitors on a per cell basis was unchanged or slightly decreased . the frequencies of blast cells in the bm were unchanged . mean levels of pb cfu-gm day 14 and cfu-gemm were 100 % and 72 % above baseline values after 7 days of rhil3 but only 25 % and 28 % above initial levels at the end of treatment . peripheral blood bfu-e were reduced in the majority of patients with normal marrow after both 7 and 15 days of rhil3 . no augmentation of circulating bfu-e and cfu-gemm was seen in 5 patients with mds who had few or no pb bfu-e or cfu-gemm initially . total leukocyte , neutrophil , and eosinophil counts increased significantly ( p less than .01 ) in 21 of 22 patients with a peak response after a median of 13 days of rhil3 . while a small increase in reticulocytes was not accompanied by an elevation of the hemoglobin or hematocrit , platelet counts increased by 50 % in patients with preserved marrow function . thus , rhil3 induces a multilineage response in vivo , apparently by stimulating proliferation of multipotential and lineage-restricted progenitors . it remains to be determined whether this is due to direct or indirect effects on the progenitor cells . 
primary leptomeningeal b-cell lymphoma in a 8-year-old child . a case of primary leptomeningeal b-cell lymphoma in an 8-year-old , previously healthy child is described . the child was found to have hypogammaglobulinemia , and the epstein-barr virus genome was identified in cultured tumor cells despite blood serology being negative for the virus . the patient was treated with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , vincristine , and dexamethasone , plus intrathecal methotrexate , and initially improved . before the initiation of craniospinal radiation , the patient developed progressive disease , deteriorated , and died 9 months after the onset of symptoms . 
immunologic abnormalities of juvenile arthritis . many immunologic abnormalities have been found in children with all forms of chronic arthritis , but few are clinically useful or well understood . however , in children with arthritis it is important to distinguish among those with rheumatoid factor , antinuclear antibodies , or hypogammaglobulinemia . rheumatoid factor is specific for adult-type rheumatoid arthritis ; the presence of antinuclear antibodies increases the likelihood that the child may develop uveitis ; and hypogammaglobulinemia may be associated with complicating infections . other unusual antibodies , autoantibodies , antigen-antibody complexes , and complement activation products are found in children with arthritis , but none of these define a diagnostic or consistent group of diseases . similarly , changes in the numbers of immunologically active cells and regulating mechanisms occur but not in specific patterns . as yet , none of the known immunologic abnormalities explain the pathogenesis of these diseases and only a few appear disease specific . 
wiskott-aldrich syndrome . a case report . this paper presents a report on a child with wiskott-aldrich syndrome . the clinical picture and laboratory findings are characteristic of this disease . the prevailing symptoms have included recurrent respiratory and alimentary tract infections , seborrhic dermatitis-type skin lesions , and thrombocytopenia . humoral and cellular immunological disturbances have been noted , and the pedigree pattern is very characteristic . 
cyclosporine and chronic sarcoidosis . two patients with progressive sarcoidosis who had poor responses and side effects from corticosteroid therapy were treated with cyclosporine . cyclosporine suppressed conventional markers of inflammation and there was clinical improvement in one patient , but the disease recurred when therapy was discontinued . the second patient who had diabetes mellitus developed unstable glucose metabolism when given cyclosporine . this unstable diabetes mellitus together with side effects of nausea and vomiting resulted in weight loss and inadequate serum therapeutic levels that was associated with a poor therapeutic response to the cyclosporine . the major side effects in both patients were headache and gastrointestinal symptoms , but there was no renal dysfunction . we conclude that while corticosteroids remain the mainstay of sarcoid therapy , when these drugs have not been successful for the skin manifestations of the disease , a trial of cyclosporine may be justified . 
effect of cyclosporin on generalized shwartzman reaction in diabetic rats . the effect of cyclosporin ( csa ) on the endotoxin-induced generalized shwartzman reaction ( gsr ) was studied in diabetic and nondiabetic rats . after 4.5 wk of diabetes , csa ( 20 mg/kg ) or intralipid as a control substance was given intraperitoneally daily for 10 days . next , diabetic rats were given either high-dose ( 2 mg/kg or low-dose ( 0.1 mg/kg ) endotoxin ( escherichia coli 026 : b6 lipopolysaccharide b ) as a single injection . the rats were killed at intervals of 1 , 4 , 8 , and 24 h. no significant glomerular thrombi were seen in the nondiabetic control animals , whereas the severity of glomerular thrombi in the diabetic animals was dependent on the presence or absence of csa , endotoxin dose , and degree of glycemic control . in the diabetic rats , glomerular thrombi occurred maximally at 4 h but were no longer present at 24 h. the csa/high-dose-endotoxin rats had fewer glomerular thrombi than rats receiving the intralipid/high-dose endotoxin , but this difference was not statistically significant . the csa/low-dose-endotoxin rats had increased glomerular thrombi compared with the intralipid/low-dose-endotoxin rats ( p less than 0.01 ) . insulin treatment reduced the glomerular capillary thrombi in the csa/low-dose-endotoxin diabetic animals . thus , csa aggravates the gsr with low-dose endotoxin but has no significant effect when high-dose endotoxin is given . improved glycemic control reduces the gsr in csa-treated rats . thus , the interrelationships of diabetes , endotoxin , and csa on the gsr are complex , and the pathogenesis of these events is unclear . 
evolution of fundic argyrophil cell hyperplasia in nonantral atrophic gastritis . fundic argyrophil cells were studied for a mean period of 68.7 months ( range , 11-170 ) in 18 patients with fundic atrophic gastritis and achlorhydria . initially , 12 patients had hyperplasia of the argyrophil cells , the severity of which was assessed using a semiquantitative classification based on the number of argyrophil clusters per square millimeter . at the end of the study , the degree of hyperplasia was unchanged in 9 patients , had decreased in 2 , and had increased in 1 ; no significant increase in the number of argyrophil clusters , precarcinoid changes , or carcinoid tumors were observed and the high level of gastrinemia [ mean , 4.8 ( range , 1.9-8 .1 ) times the upper limit for normal ) did not change significantly . of the 6 patients with no hyperplasia at the outset of the study , 4 continued without hyperplasia and 2 presented a low-grade hyperplasia at the 20th and 130th month . gastrinemia increased significantly in the last patient and stayed normal in the other 5 . this study argues in favor of the stable appearance of fundic argyrophil cells in patients with atrophic gastritis and stable gastrinemia . 
essential fatty acid deficiency ameliorates acute renal dysfunction in the rat after the administration of the aminonucleoside of puromycin . the administration of the aminonucleoside of puromycin ( pan ) to rats causes the nephrotic syndrome that is associated with an acute decline in renal function , and an interstitial infiltrate . we examined whether essential fatty acid deficiency ( efad ) , which inhibits macrophage infiltration in glomerulonephritis , affects pan-induced renal dysfunction . both control and efad rats developed proteinuria that resolved over 28 d. after pan administration , there was a prominent infiltration of macrophages in rats fed a normal diet . the infiltrate was prevented by the efad diet . the absence of a macrophage interstitial infiltrate was associated with a significantly higher cin in the efad rats than in controls at 7 d ( 5.21 + / - 1.19 versus 0.39 + / - 0.08 , p less than 0.002 ml/min/kg bw ) . in addition , cpah fell to less than 10 ml/min/kg bw by day 7 in controls , but remained the same as normal in the efad . after administration of pan to control rats , there was no increase in urinary thromboxane excretion or an increase in glomerular thromboxane production . furthermore , the effect of efad could not be mimicked by the administration of a thromboxane synthase inhibitor . irradiation-induced leukopenia in rats on a normal diet markedly improved glomerular filtration and renal blood flow in acutely nephrotic rats . efad prevents the interstitial cellular infiltrate and the renal ischemia associated with experimental nephrosis . the recruitment of mononuclear cells into the kidney following pan directly contributes to the decline in renal function . 
tartrate resistant acid phosphatase positive splenic lymphoma : a relatively benign condition occurring in a time-space cluster ? conventional light and electron microscopic studies , together with cytochemical and immunocytochemical staining procedures , were carried out to ascertain whether the lymphomata of four elderly female patients living within 10 kilometers of each other , who presented within a short space of time with massive splenomegaly and varying cytopenia , belonged to any particular subgroup of lymphoma . in each case the lymphoma had a diffuse pattern and mature b cell phenotype . the malignant cells were of uniform cell type , slightly larger than admixed polymorphonuclear leucocytes , and showed minimal nuclear irregularity and positivity for tartrate resistant acid phosphatase ( trap ) staining . their clinical and morphological features were compared with those of other lymphoproliferative disorders , but while sharing some features in common with each condition , this small group of patients seemed to have a unique combination of findings . the cytopenias of all four responded well after removal of the spleen and their disease has not been aggressive . it is concluded that these patients have a distinct subgroup of lymphoma , which it is important to recognise so that inappropriate use of aggressive cytotoxic drugs can be avoided . 
effect of sample volume on yield of positive blood cultures from adult patients with haematological malignancy . six hundred and sixteen blood samples from patients with haematological malignancy were each distributed equally among three identical cells in a malthus microbiological growth analyser . the mean ( sd ) volumes inoculated into sets in which one , two , or three of the three bottles were positive were 37.7 ( 10.1 ) ml , 37.4 ( 12.9 ) ml , and 37.7 ( 10.5 ) ml , respectively . overall , clinically important organisms were isolated from one bottle only with 18 cultures , from two bottles only with 19 cultures , and from all three bottles in a set with 104 cultures . if the yield from a single bottle inoculated with a mean volume of 12.6 ml blood is taken as 100 % , the yield from 25.2 ml in two bottles was 110.7 % and the yield from 37.7 ml in three bottles was 115.6 % . the increased yield from increased volume was considerably lower than that reported from unselected groups of patients , which suggests that the magnitude of bacteriaemia is greater in patients with neutropenia . the isolation of infecting organisms from the blood of patients with neutropenia is , however , particularly important in directing chemotherapy and consequently 45 ml blood samples from these patients continue to be requested . 
clinical manifestations in anticardiolipin antibody-positive patients with progressive systemic sclerosis . anticardiolipin antibody-positive patients with progressive systemic sclerosis were analyzed . elevated anticardiolipin antibody titers were observed in 13 of 40 cases ( 33 % ) . anticardiolipin antibody titer was significantly higher in patients with progressive systemic sclerosis type 1 than in those with type 2 or type 3 . occurrence of anticardiolipin antibody was significantly more frequent in patients positive for anti-nrnp antibodies , rheumatoid factor , or thrombocytopenia . in contrast , patients with proximal scleroderma , scarring , or esophageal hypomotility were positive for anticardiolipin antibody less frequently . these results suggest that anticardiolipin antibody might be closely associated with lupuslike clinical manifestations in a subset of progressive systemic sclerosis or definite progressive systemic sclerosis with thrombocytopenia , rheumatoid factor , or anti-nrnp antibodies . 
hypereosinophilic syndrome with unusual cutaneous manifestations in two men with hiv infection . we report two men with human immunodeficiency virus infection who had unusual cutaneous manifestations of hypereosinophilic syndrome , exfoliative erythroderma , and linear flagellate plaques . in the first patient the cutaneous disease was the initial manifestation , and in the second the skin was the only organ affected . we also describe a favorable response to systemic corticosteroids and to psoralen with uva phototherapy in one patient . 
neutrophilic dermatosis with myelodysplastic syndrome : nuclear segmentation anomalies of neutrophils in the skin lesion and in peripheral blood . neutrophilic dermatosis developed in two patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . biopsy specimens of their skin lesions showed marked infiltration by neutrophils with nuclear anomalies , that is , hyposegmentation ( pseudo-pelger-huet anomaly ) or hypersegmentation . peripheral blood and bone marrow neutrophils had similar anomalies . to our knowledge , this is the first report of nuclear segmentation anomalies of neutrophils in neutrophilic dermatosis skin lesions of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . 
scleroderma and l-tryptophan : a possible explanation of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . scleroderma developed in six women who were taking l-tryptophan . fasciitis and morphea were most common , but one patient had pleural effusion , hypertension , and signs of cardiac and kidney failure . in five patients the biopsy findings were characteristic of scleroderma ; the sixth patient had crohn 's disease and developed fasciitis ; her biopsy specimen showed inflammatory arteritis . all patients ' conditions improved after cessation of their l-tryptophan intake , initiation of corticosteroid therapy , or both . these findings confirm previous data that show altered tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism in some patients with scleroderma and fasciitis , particularly with tryptophan loading . 
hydroxychloroquine is effective therapy for control of cutaneous sarcoidal granulomas . cutaneous sarcoidosis often responds poorly to topical and intralesional corticosteroids but may respond to moderate to high doses of oral corticosteroids . to avoid the use of systemic corticosteroids , we treated 17 patients with cutaneous sarcoidal granulomas with hydroxychloroquine ( 2 to 3 mg/kg/day ) in an open clinical trial . if response occurred , other medications were first tapered and then the hydroxychloroquine dosage was reduced or stopped . the cutaneous lesions of 12 patients regressed within 4 to 12 weeks , and they were able to stop other therapies ; three patients had a partial response , and two patients had no regression . two of eight patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis improved . no ocular toxicity was noted . 
the relationship of pemphigus to neoplasia . a statistically increased incidence of malignancy has been observed in patients with pemphigus . a review of the literature reveals 42 cases of nonthymic malignancies and 18 cases of thymic malignancies . a significant predominance of men , with mean age at onset of 50 years , was observed . pemphigus vulgaris is more common in patients with nonthymic neoplasms , whereas pemphigus foliaceus or pemphigus erythematosus and pemphigus vulgaris are equally common in patients with thymic neoplasms . lymphoreticular malignancies , especially kaposi 's sarcoma , are most frequently observed . the majority of patients with nonthymic neoplasms have pemphigus before the detection of the malignancy and have a favorable 5-year survival rate after tumor resection . the majority of the patients with thymic neoplasms have a thymoma before the development of pemphigus . in some patients pemphigus develops after thymectomy and myasthenia gravis is often associated . overall , 37 of the 60 patients , or 61 % , had a neoplasm of the immune system . 
increased serum ige and increased prevalence of eosinophilia in 9-year-old children of smoking parents . we studied the relationship of serum ige levels and eosinophil counts with passive smoking in 9-year-old , nonselected children from three italian towns near rome . male children of smoking parents had a significantly higher total count and percentage of eosinophils ( p = 0.008 ) and higher ige levels ( p = 0.01 ) than male children of nonsmoking parents . prevalence of eosinophilia ( defined as greater than or equal to 4 % of total white blood cell count ) was significantly correlated with the number of cigarettes smoked by parents among boys ( p = 0.003 ) but not among girls ( p = 0.20 ) . there was a significant trend ( p = 0.008 ) for prevalence of eosinophilia to increase with increasing levels of serum ige . for any given level of serum ige , the frequency of eosinophilia was higher among children of smoking parents than among children of nonsmoking parents . when parental smoking was studied in a multivariable analysis and after controlling for the other variable , it was still significantly associated with eosinophilia in the children of these smoking parents but not with serum ige levels . we conclude that parental smoking is associated with a significant enhancement of the expression of the most important markers of allergic sensitization in the children of smoking parents . this is particularly evident for boys and may explain , at least in part , the increased frequency of respiratory symptoms in children of smoking parents . 
acute promyelocytic leukemia : impact of hemorrhagic complications on response to induction chemotherapy and survival . from 1976 to 1989 , 21 adult patients with previously untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia were seen at the university of virginia hospital . we reviewed their cases retrospectively to determine the impact of hemorrhagic complications and other factors on treatment outcome . we observed a complete remission rate of 35 % ; the median survival in complete responders was 15 months . evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation was found in 13 ( 62 % ) of the 21 cases at diagnosis . fatal intracranial hemorrhage was the leading cause of death , occurring in eight ( 40 % ) of the 20 patients evaluated . initial leukocyte count greater than 4.0 x 10 ( 9 ) / l and platelet count less than 20 x 10 ( 9 ) / l were significantly associated with an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage . in patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation , the rate of intracranial hemorrhage was reduced by treatment with heparin . the high mortality of 40 % ( 8/20 ) due to intracranial hemorrhage during induction was a major contributor to the low complete remission rate of 35 % ( 7/20 ) in this series of consecutive unselected patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia . 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in patients who undergo open heart surgery . to determine whether heparin-dependent antiplatelet antibodies ( haab ) have an effect on morbidity and/or mortality rates , we reviewed the cases of 3438 patients who underwent open heart surgery from 1981 to 1989 . forty-six patients ( 1.3 % ) had haab . the patients were divided into two groups : those patients who were known to have haab before surgery ( group i ) and those patients who were diagnosed with haab after surgery ( group ii ) . group i patients ( n = 5 ) were pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before reexposure to heparin during cardiopulmonary bypass and were maintained with strict abstinence from heparin afterward . their lowest observed platelet counts ranged from 42,000 / mm3 to 89,000 / mm3 ( median , 63,00 / mm3 ) . thromboembolic complications did not occur , and all patients survived . group ii patients ( n = 41 ) who were diagnosed to have haab after surgery had not been pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before surgery . lowest platelet counts ranged from 11,000 / mm3 to 128,000 / mm3 ( median , 42,000 / mm3 ) . bleeding complications occurred in 21 patients ( 51 % ) , and thromboembolic complications occurred in 13 patients ( 32 % ) . hospital mortality in group ii patients was 37 % . late recognition of haab was associated with an increase in morbidity and mortality rates . thromboembolic complications of haab , which had been diagnosed before surgery , were eliminated , and bleeding was reduced by pretreatment with platelet-inhibiting drugs and strict abstinence from heparin after surgery . 
the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome in an adult [ published erratum appears in thorax 1990 dec ; 45 ( 12 ) :984 ] a 27 year old white woman with a history of chronic eczema and episodes of serious infection of the chest , skin , and bone presented with acute respiratory failure . she was found to have a spontaneous right pneumothorax and a pneumatocele in the left upper lobe . despite a left upper lobectomy she was left with chronic respiratory failure , bullous lung disease , and bilateral bronchiectasis . the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome was diagnosed only in adult life . 
bronchoalveolar lavage findings in a patient with the organic dust toxic syndrome . a previously healthy student developed the organic dust toxic syndrome after unloading a grain silo for one day . bronchoalveolar lavage seven days later showed a total cell count six times normal with 70 % lymphocytes . this suggests that the previously described acute neutrophil influx into the alveolar spaces in this syndrome is rapidly replaced by a lymphocyte dominated infiltration . 
cerebral venous thrombosis due to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia . a patient with polycythemia vera who was treated with heparin for superficial septic thrombophlebitis developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and cerebral venous thrombosis with superior sagittal sinus occlusion 11 days after the institution of heparin therapy . we suggest that the severe thrombotic response to the heparin-induced platelet disorder in this patient occurred because the polycythemia vera and the purulent infection enhanced the thrombophilia caused by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia . this condition can be avoided in most instances if heparin is used for no longer than 5 days . 
prenatal identification of potential donors for umbilical cord blood transplantation for fanconi anemia . reported here are studies of fanconi anemia fetal cells that led to the first use of umbilical cord blood for hematopoietic reconstitution in a clinical trial . prenatal diagnosis and hla typing were performed in fetuses at risk for fanconi anemia ( fa ) to identify , prior to birth , those that were unaffected with the syndrome and were hla-identical to affected siblings . umbilical cord blood was harvested at the delivery of these infants ; assays of progenitor cells indicated the presence of colony-forming units-granulocyte-macrophage ( cfu-gm ) in numbers similar to those of bone marrow cfu-gm that are associated with successful engraftment in hla-matched allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . the possibility that umbilical cord blood from a single individual can be used as an alternative to bone marrow for hematopoietic reconstitution has now been demonstrated by the successful engraftment of two patients with fa . progenitor cell assays of umbilical cord blood collected at the birth of a child affected with fa , who had been misdiagnosed on the basis of chorionic villus sampling ( cvs ) studies , indicated a profound deficiency in colony formation , consistent with previously reported abnormalities in the growth of fa cells in vitro . these results suggest that the hematopoietic disorder in fa is related to an underlying problem with cell proliferation . 
detection of drug-dependent , platelet-reactive antibodies by antigen-capture elisa and flow cytometry . the effectiveness of flow cytometry in the detection of drug-dependent , platelet-reactive antibodies was investigated . in studies of seven sera known to contain quinine - or quinidine-dependent , platelet-reactive antibodies , flow cytometry was 5 to 10 times more sensitive in detecting drug-dependent antibodies ( ddabs ) than the 51cr release assay , antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , and indirect immunofluorescence microscopic assay . with flow cytometry , ddabs could be detected at drug concentrations as low as 0.1 microm , or less than one-tenth the level required with other methods . antigen-capture elisa was not as sensitive as flow cytometry in ddab detection , but it did allow identification of the ddabs ' target molecules . with this assay , five of the seven ddabs recognized both the glycoprotein ib/ix ( gpib/ix ) and glycoprotein iib/iiia ( gpiib/iiia ) complexes , while the remaining two sera reacted only with gpib/ix . of 44 consecutive patients who developed thrombocytopenia while taking quinidine , ddabs were detected by flow cytometry in 11 ( 25 % ) , more than twice the number detected by other methods . in one patient who developed thrombocytopenia while taking trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole , ddabs could be detected only by flow cytometry . it can be concluded that flow cytometry is highly sensitive in detecting ddabs and allows their detection at pharmacologic concentrations of the drug . most quinidine-dependent antibodies recognize at least two different glycoprotein complexes in the platelet membrane . 
incubation of platelet concentrates before transfusion does not improve posttransfusion recovery . incubation of stored platelet concentrates ( pcs ) at 37 degrees c for 1 hour has been reported to result in a better morphology score and improved platelet recovery . a study was conducted in adult patients with leukemia to determine whether incubation of stored pcs results in an improved platelet recovery as measured by 10-minute posttransfusion corrected count increments ( cci ) . eligible patients had platelet counts of less than 30,000 per microl and were clinically stable . patients were transfused with 6 to 10 units of pc stored for 3 days ( 15 studies ) or 4 days ( 5 studies ) . platelets were pooled and then split in two equal volumes so that each patient received two sequential half-transfusions , one incubated at 37 degrees c for 1 hour and the other kept at 22 degrees c for 1 hour . patients were randomized as to which half-transfusion was received first . the mean cci of the incubated half-transfusions was 13.6 x 10 ( 3 ) when they were given first and 14.5 x 10 ( 3 ) when given second ; this was not significantly different from the mean cci of the nonincubated half-transfusions : 13.8 x 10 ( 3 ) when they were given first and 13.8 x 10 ( 3 ) when given second . in contrast to earlier reports , it can be concluded that incubation of pooled pcs does not improve platelet recovery . 
abnormal membrane physical properties of red cells in mcleod syndrome . mcleod red cells ( rbcs ) lack kx antigens and have weak expression of the kell antigens . individuals who carry the mcleod phenotype have acanthocytic rbcs and a compensated hemolytic state . to elucidate the role of the protein on which the kx antigens reside in maintaining membrane deformability , the rheologic properties of mcleod rbcs were determined by ektacytometry . rbcs were obtained from normal individuals and from four patients with mcleod syndrome . osmotic gradient deformability profiles of mcleod rbcs showed decreased whole cell deformability . resealed ghosts from mcleod rbcs also showed decreased deformability , partly because of the decreased cell surface area and partly because of an intrinsic membrane stiffness in this syndrome . for the measurement of membrane mechanical stability , resealed ghosts were subjected to constant high shear stress in the ektacytomer , and deformability was recorded continuously as the deformable ghosts fragmented into rigid spherical vesicles . membranes from mcleod rbcs showed a noticeable increase in mechanical stability . acquired causes of acanthocytosis , such as liver disease , did not cause the rheologic abnormalities observed in mcleod cells . other abnormalities noted in mcleod rbcs were decreased rbc potassium content and an increased number of dense rbcs , as determined by centrifugation on a discontinuous density gradient . the data indicate that mcleod rbcs are rigid and have decreased surface area and that their membranes are intrinsically rigid with increased mechanical stability . these abnormalities may account for the reduced rbc survival observed in mcleod syndrome . the protein that carries the kx surface antigen seems to be required for the maintenance of the normal physical function of rbc skeletal proteins . 
autoimmune hemolytic anemia in kawasaki disease : a case report a 3-year-old boy presented with the fever , conjunctivitis , rash , and lymphadenopathy diagnostic of kawasaki disease . treatment with antibiotics , aspirin , and intravenous immunoglobulin was instituted . the hematocrit decreased from 35 percent on admission to 11 percent by hospital day 10 , and the white cell count had increased from 13.7 to 42 x 10 ( 3 ) per microl , and the patient had a leukoerythroblastic blood smear . the direct antiglobulin test demonstrated igg but not complement on the red cell ( rbc ) surface . an acid eluate reacted ( titer of 4 ) with all panel cells in the antiglobulin phase . intravenous immunoglobulin from the same lot used for treatment did not contain antibody that reacted with the patient 's group o rbcs or a panel of group o rbcs , but did contain igg anti-a and - b ( titer of 4 ) . the patient received a transfusion and was given methylprednisone . the direct antiglobulin test and acid eluate were negative 4 days later . the patient had an uneventful recovery . the distinction between antibody-mediated hemolytic anemia and autoimmune hemolytic anemia is important in the treatment of this disease . 
tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome eight patients who became ill while taking tryptophan had myalgia , fatigue , rash , fever , edema , alopecia , arthralgias , diminished joint motion , skin tightening , muscle cramping , and distal paresthesias . three had shortness of breath , and one had pulmonary hypertension . laboratory abnormalities included peripheral eosinophilia , leukocytosis , thrombocytosis , raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and elevated serum levels of aldolase , lactate dehydrogenase , and liver enzymes . of 4 chest radiographs , 3 were abnormal . of 5 skin and muscle biopsies , 4 showed sclerosis or mixed inflammatory cell infiltration of the dermis , subcutis , and fascia . eosinophils were often present , but vasculitis was absent . muscle inflammation was minimal . we conclude that the " eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome " is related to the ingestion of tryptophan and that abnormalities in the secretion of lymphokines may be important in its pathogenesis . 
primary splenic lymphocyte-depletion hodgkin 's disease . a case of lymphocyte-depletion hodgkin 's disease is described for the purpose of reviewing the criteria currently used to distinguish this disease from other pleomorphic large-cell malignancies . a 76-year-old man with a 3-month history of daily fevers underwent extensive evaluation and exploratory laparotomy , which revealed only two large , separate splenic tumor nodules . postoperatively , the patient remained asymptomatic . histologically , the tumor was composed of giant cells , including both typical reed-sternberg forms and mononuclear variants with inflammatory stromal response along its borders . immunoperoxidase showed tumor cells to be strongly reactive for leu-m1 ( cd15 ) , ber-h2 ( cd30 ) , leu-3 ( cd4 ) , and t11 ( cd2 ) and weakly reactive for leu-4 ( cd3 ) but nonreactive for ema , lca , lysozyme , leu-9 , leu-m3 , leu-m5 , and immunoglobulin light chains . southern blot analysis revealed an isolated clonal band for kappa light chain only . included in the discussion of this case of primary splenic lymphocyte-depletion hodgkin 's disease is a review of clinical , histologic , immunohistochemical , and gene-rearrangement characteristics of what can be defined as lymphocyte-depletion hodgkin 's disease . 
thymic hyperplasia . a clue to the diagnosis of hyperthyroidism . the association of simultaneous abnormalities of the thyroid and thymus is well documented , particularly in the case of graves ' disease . we present a case of a natural death following thyroid storm in which marked thymic hyperplasia was present . this finding can be helpful in determining the cause of death . 
hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and consumption coagulopathy . we describe a case of hepatic giant cavernous hemangioma with both microangiopathic hemolytic anemia ( maha ) and consumption coagulopathy , but without thrombocytopenia , which was completely cured by surgical resection of the tumor . the patient was a 54-yr-old japanese woman whose chief complaint was right upper abdominal discomfort . angiography and dynamic computed tomography revealed typical findings of hepatic cavernous hemangioma . the patient also had hematological disorders . at surgery , we performed an atypical right lobectomy to preserve as much normal liver tissue as possible . the patient has been well , with no related complaints or abnormal laboratory findings , 5 yr since her operation . this case indicates that giant cavernous hemangioma of the liver should be considered in the differential diagnosis of maha , and if surgical treatment is adequate , hematological abnormalities may be eliminated . 
treatment of the anemia of chronic renal failure with subcutaneous recombinant human erythropoietin . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of recombinant human erythropoietin ( rhuepo ) given subcutaneously three times/week in patients with chronic renal failure and anemia ( predialysis ) . patients and methods : eleven patients with predialysis chronic renal failure participated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled study of subcutaneously administered erythropoietin . for 12 weeks , patients received either rhuepo 100 mu/kg body weight three times/week subcutananeously or a placebo . after 12 weeks of placebo , patients now also received rhuepo in a dose up to 150 mu/kg three times/week until target hematocrit was achieved . throughout the study , blood pressure was monitored closely and blood work was obtained regularly for hemoglobin , hematocrit , reticulocyte count , and iron profile determinations . results : at 12 weeks , the hematocrit of the treated group had risen from 29 % + / - 2 % to 35 % + / - 2 % ( p less than 0.001 ) . the placebo group baseline hematocrit was 28 % + / - 2 % and at 12 weeks 26 % + / - 2 % after 12 weeks of rhuepo therapy , the hematocrit of the prior placebo group was 32 % + / - 2 % ( p less than 0.001 versus baseline ) . no significant change in biochemical parameters was noted . mean blood pressure values were comparable before and after treatment . all protein ultimately required iron supplementation . in two patients , the rate of progression of renal failure appeared to increase as their hematocrit rose and rhuepo was discontinued . conclusions : it is concluded that rhuepo given subcutaneously is an effective and safe therapy for patients with chronic renal failure who are anemic and who are not receiving dialysis . 
the natural history of thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia . sixty-one of 375 women with hypertension and preeclampsia in a 48-month period had thrombocytopenia . by postpartum day 3 , 90 % of these women had rising platelet counts , and by day 4 , 59 of 61 women had counts greater than 100,000 / mm3 . the two exceptions had other pathologic conditions in addition to preeclampsia . thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia should resolve by postpartum day 4 . 
continuing controversy in alloimmune thrombocytopenia : fetal hyperimmunoglobulinemia fails to prevent thrombocytopenia . two patients with severe alloimmune thrombocytopenia were managed by weekly intrauterine platelet transfusions at 25 to 36 weeks . in one patient high-dose immunoglobulin was also administered weekly to the mother , and high maternal and fetal immunoglobulin levels were achieved . fetal platelet counts were similar in both patients . the only variable that affected fetal platelet concentration was the posttransfusion platelet count from the previous transfusion . 
management and outcomes of pregnancies complicated by human b19 parvovirus infection : a prospective study during a large statewide outbreak of fifth disease in connecticut in 1988 , 39 pregnant women were identified who had serologic evidence of recent human b19 parvovirus infection . the patients were followed up prospectively with targeted fetal ultrasonographic examinations to detect signs of fetal hydrops . of these 39 pregnant women , 37 had healthy infants and two patients had miscarriages . none of the fetuses developed hydrops . we propose that pregnant women exposed to b19 parvovirus be tested for evidence of igg and igm b19-specific antibodies and that targeted fetal ultrasonography be considered when igm antibodies are found . percutaneous umbilical blood sampling and intrauterine transfusion can be considered in cases of b19 parvovirus-associated hydrops and anemia . the overall fetal loss rate in this prospective follow-up group was 5 % . 
spontaneous infarction of placental chorioangioma and associated regression of hydrops fetalis . we report a case of a large chorioangioma diagnosed prenatally with concomitant meconium peritonitis and hydrops fetalis in the second trimester . spontaneous regression of the tumor occurred , associated with some resolution of the fetal hydrops and delivery near term with good neonatal outcome . 
late chronic hemolysis after valve replacement for aortic stenosis . relation to residual hypertrophy and impaired left ventricular function . the relationship between intravascular hemolysis induced by aortic valve prosteses and patient status/left ventricular ( lv ) function ( radionuclide cardiography ) was examined in 63 patients of 65 who were alive ten to seventeen years after valve replacement ( 1965-1973 ) for aortic stenosis . serum-lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) exceeded upper reference limit in 62 patients and s-haptoglobin ( hapto ) was reduced in 62 . one patient with normal ldh had reduced hapto and elevated plasma-hemoglobin . anemia was noted in 4 patients ( 6 % ) . s-ldh was higher in men than in women ( p less than 0.05 ) , in patients with increased ecg hypertrophy score than in those with a normal score ( p less than 0.05 ) , in patients with nyha class ii-iii than in those with class i ( p less than 0.05 ) , in patients with abnormal lv function than in those with a normal radionuclide study ( p less than 0.05 ) , in patients with a pathologic q wave in the ecg than in those without ( p less than 0.05 ) , and in patients with a starr edwards cloth-covered ( secc ) prosthesis than in those with other types ( p = 0.07 ) . ecg hypertrophy score correlated directly with ldh ( r = 0.33 , p = 0.008 ) and inversely with lv ejection fraction ( r = -0.57 , p less than 0.0001 ) , peak ejection rate ( r = -0.47 , p less than 0.0001 ) , and peak filling rate ( r = -0.41 , p less than 0.001 ) . multiple linear regression analysis revealed that ldh was accounted for by ecg hypertrophy score ( p = 0.001 ) , secc prosthesis ( p = 0.04 ) , and male gender ( p = 0.05 ) . hypertrophic malfunctioning left ventricles may be responsible for higher degrees of turbulent flow characteristics in the vicinity of prosthetic valves in the aortic position and , by inference , explain the increased tendency toward hemolysis in these patients . 
adverse reactions to heparin [ clinical conference ] heparin is a medication that has gained widespread use in clinical medicine as the therapy of choice for acute anticoagulation in the prevention and treatment of thromboembolic disease . therapy with heparin is associated with many potential adverse side effects . heparin-induced skin necrosis is an uncommon complication of heparin therapy that is now believed to be a thrombotic complication of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia . the pathogenesis of this disorder is unknown , but it is presumed to be immunologically mediated . the diagnosis is frequently one of exclusion . significant morbidity and mortality may arise from failure to recognize this adverse reaction . 
sarcoidosis complicated by hiv infection : three case reports and a review of the literature . we report three cases of sarcoidosis complicated by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and review four other isolated case reports in the literature . there is clinical overlap of both diseases , including symptoms , pulmonary function abnormalities , and lymphocyte function . bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) in these patients showed a lymphocytic alveolitis without pathogens . bal lymphocyte subset analysis showed markedly depressed cd4 + / cd8 + ratios in three patients . these data were clinically useful for distinguishing the cd8 + alveolitis associated with hiv infection from the cd4 + alveolitis associated with sarcoidosis . three patients improved with corticosteroid therapy . two patients with bal-documented cd8 + alveolitis tolerated discontinuation of steroids . one patient 's sarcoidosis improved without therapy concurrent with the diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma . another patient developed sarcoidosis 1 yr after manifesting hiv positive serology . bal can be used to distinguish the lymphocytic alveolitis of sarcoidosis from that associated with hiv infection . patients with active sarcoidosis complicated by hiv infection can be effectively treated with corticosteroid therapy . 
ciliary motility in two patients with yellow nail syndrome and recurrent sinopulmonary infections . the yellow nail syndrome ( yns ) is described as a combination of yellow nails , chronic lymphedema , pleural effusions , and recurrent sinopulmonary infections , but all these features need not be present for the diagnosis . the mechanism that renders patients with this syndrome susceptible to respiratory infections is not known . to determine whether abnormal ciliary motility is a predisposing factor , in vitro ciliary beat frequency ( cbf ) was measured in two patients with yns and recurrent respiratory infections . in each case , the cbf was within normal limits ( 12 hz ) . these data suggest that abnormal ciliary motility is not a pathophysiologic mechanism of recurrent sinopulmonary infections in yns . 
spontaneous splenic rupture following infectious mononucleosis . four cases of spontaneous splenic rupture after infectious mononucleosis ( im ) have been treated at this institution since 1978 . the condition is rare , occurring in 0.1-0 .5 per cent of patients with proven infectious mononucleosis . splenectomy is considered the treatment of choice for these patients . however , because recent trends in the management of traumatic splenic rupture are moving towards nonoperative treatment with selected patients , a similar approach has been considered for the patient with spontaneous splenic rupture following im . the major reason for avoiding splenectomy is the increased incidence of sepsis in splenectomized patients . yet , splenic rupture is accompanied by hemorrhage and the risks associated with blood transfusion for ongoing hemorrhage are of similar magnitude as those of sepsis following splenectomy . in addition , the grossly abnormal spleens seen at operation tend to include large , contained hematomas that may also be prone to rupture . therefore , operative management still appears to be the preferred treatment for spontaneous splenic rupture following im . splenectomy is curative , safe , and obviates the need for transfusion , extended hospitalization , and activity restriction . 
sch-39304 in prevention and treatment of disseminated candidiasis in persistently granulocytopenic rabbits . to investigate the potential use of sch-39304 for the prevention and treatment of disseminated candidiasis in granulocytopenic patients , we studied its in vivo antifungal activity as preventive , early , and late treatments in three models ( acute , subacute , and chronic ) of disseminated candidiasis in persistently granulocytopenic rabbits . sch-39304 was an effective as amphotericin b alone and fluconazole alone for the prevention of disseminated candidiasis . sch-39304 alone and fluconazole alone were as effective as amphotericin b plus flucytosine for early treatment of subacute disseminated candidiasis . when treatment was delayed for 5 days to establish chronic disseminated candidiasis , sch-39304 was less effective than amphotericin b plus flucytosine . in comparison with different treatment regimens , sch-39304 was more effective in early and preventive treatment . thus , sch-39304 was comparable to treatment control regimens in prevention and early treatment of subacute disseminated candidiasis . sch-39304 also was most effective in granulocytopenic rabbits with disseminated candidiasis when used for prevention or early treatment . 
prognosis of chronic granulomatous disease . the records of 28 patients with chronic granulomatous disease born over a 32 year period were reviewed . the characteristics of the group , and the frequency with which various clinical and laboratory features had been recorded , was assessed . nine patients were known to have died , in most cases of progressive suppurative infection . actuarial analysis showed 50 % survival through the third decade of life . the long term survival of patients developing symptoms after the end of the first year of life was significantly better than that of patients whose illness started in infancy . our data confirm that the severity of chronic granulomatous disease is not uniform , and that the prognosis for long term survival is better than that suggested in earlier reports . early onset may be a poor prognostic sign and invasive aspergillosis is a life threatening complication . in the absence of curative treatment , trials to assess the effectiveness of interferon gamma are necessary and early antenatal diagnosis should be offered to as many affected families as possible . 
social integration of the older thalassaemic patient . because social policy favours the fullest possible social integration of chronically ill patients , we have evaluated the facilities that are needed to achieve this for patients with beta thalassaemia major in the light of the therapeutic advances that now permit them to survive into adulthood . we have investigated the social integration of adolescent and young adult thalassaemic patients , 171 from greece and 112 from ferrara in italy . patients in both areas show a good level of social integration and favourable self image , indicating what may be achieved by providing psychosocial support as part of a comprehensive approach to treatment . 
analysis of prognostic factors and clinicopathological staging of thymoma the prognostic value of four clinical variables ( age and sex of patients , association with myasthenia gravis , and clinical stage ) and histological type was analyzed in 83 consecutive patients with thymoma , histologically classified as cortical , medullary , and mixed . age , sex , and association with myasthenia gravis did not prove to represent significant prognostic factors ; clinical stage and histological type , on the contrary , had a highly significant prognostic value ( p less than 0.001 ) . a model of clinicopathological staging , based on both clinical stage and histological type , in which three major prognostic groups are considered is proposed . the degree of significance of this model is higher ( p less than 0.0001 ) than that of clinical stage and histological type considered individually ; its validity is further supported by the results of multivariate analysis according to the cox regression model ( p = 0.0001 ) . we think it represents a prognostically valuable approach to the problem of management of thymoma . 
coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma . thymic carcinoid tumors are unusual neoplasms that are different from thymomas . we report a case of coexisting thymic carcinoid tumor and thymoma associated with myasthenia gravis . the clinicopathological findings are discussed with a review of the literature . 
pregnancy in women with immune thrombocytopenic purpura . thirty-six women with immune thrombocytopenic purpura were studied during 37 pregnancies , and maternal characteristics with predictive value for the fetal platelet count were determined . nine neonates were thrombocytopenic , with a platelet count of less than 50 x 10 ( 9 ) / l in eight . four of these nine neonates delivered to a subgroup of 31 mothers were studied prospectively ; the frequency of thrombocytopenia in neonates of women with immune thrombocytopenic purpura was thus 13 % . only two of these nine neonates presented with hemorrhagic syndromes ( two , petechial purpura ; one , intracranial bleeding ) . the frequency of neonatal thrombocytopenia was higher in mothers with deep thrombocytopenia and in those who had not responded to corticosteroid treatment following diagnosis . no prognostic value could be assigned to the other maternal characteristics studied , such as a history of splenectomy , maternal treatment at the time of delivery , or the presence of platelet autoantibodies evaluated either with the platelet immunofluorescence test or the platelet western blot immunoassay . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . recognition of a distinct clinicopathologic entity the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a newly described disorder related to the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products . its presentation may mimic other disorders characterized by eosinophilia and muscle pain and/or weakness , but can be differentiated by certain characteristic laboratory and pathologic findings . we report two such cases , describe their features , and review similar syndromes . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan ingestion . analysis of four patients and implications for differential diagnosis and pathogenesis four patients fulfilling the case definition for eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome are described , including one whose disease began in 1986 . each displayed a variety of symptoms : one suffered principally from myalgia and recovered spontaneously on discontinuation of l-tryptophan therapy ; one exhibited progressive sclerodermiform skin changes , neuropathy , and myopathy ; a third had prominent neuromuscular disease and sclerodermiform skin changes ; and the fourth experienced profound weight loss , an axonal polyneuropathy , and perivascular lymphoid infiltrates simulating a lymphoma . evidence of t-cell activation was present in peripheral blood and affected tissues during the clinically active progressive phase of disease . among other manifestations pleural effusion , cutaneous vasculitis , joint contractures , and bloody diarrhea were observed . a history of l-tryptophan ingestion should be sought in patients with myalgia , fatigue , or the above outlined symptoms . 
hla-b38 , dr4 , dqw3 and clozapine-induced agranulocytosis in jewish patients with schizophrenia . agranulocytosis develops in approximately 1 % of patients with chronic schizophrenia treated with the atypical neuroleptic drug clozapine . previous studies have not identified the mechanism or risk factors for this adverse reaction . because of an observed association between jewish ethnic background and the development of agranulocytosis in our patient sample treated with clozapine for refractory symptoms , hla typing was performed in 31 patients ( 19.4 % of whom had developed agranulocytosis ) . the hla-b38 phenotype was found in 83 % of patients who developed agranulocytosis and in 20 % of clozapine-treated patients who did not develop agranulocytosis . because b38 is part of a haplotype known to occur frequently in the ashkenazi jewish population , the frequencies of the combined alleles hla-b38 , dr4 , and dqw3 were examined . the incidence of hla-b38 , dr4 , dqw3 was significantly increased in patients with agranulocytosis ( five of five patients ) compared with control patients of ashkenazi jewish ancestry ( two of 17 patients ) . these findings indicate that genetic factors marked by major histocompatibility complex haplotypes may be associated with the susceptibility of jewish schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine to develop agranulocytosis . we postulate that gene products contained in the haplotype may be involved in mediating drug toxicity . 
heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes . an unrecognized problem . heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes is both unknown to clinicians and a potential source of confusion with metastatic disease . we reviewed the english literature and found 289 cases of heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes . the majority ( 84 % ) of these patients were operated on for malignant neoplasms . the most frequent sites of occurrence was the pelvis ( 67 % ) , followed by the axilla ( 14 % ) , neck ( 14 % ) , groin ( 3 % ) , abdomen ( 2 % ) , and mediastinum ( less than 1 % ) . the tissue seen is site-specific and frequently resembles a neighboring organ . three cases have been reported in which heterotopic tissue was mistaken for metastatic disease . these cases illustrate the importance of being familiar with heterotopic tissue in lymph nodes and identifying it when it does occur , to avoid inappropriate therapy . 
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in pregnancy : a randomized trial on the effect of antenatal low dose corticosteroids on neonatal platelet count objective -- to determine the efficacy of antenatal low dose oral betamethasone in preventing neonatal thrombocytopenia and/or bleeding in infants of mothers with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ( itp ) . setting -- hospital department of obstetrics and gynaecology , referral centre . patients -- 41 pregnancies in 38 women were randomized . the results of 13 pregnancies were considered non-assessable . the final analysis involved 14 in the betamethasone group and 14 in the non-treatment group . all fulfilled the criteria for itp . interventions -- the treated group received 1.5 mg betamethasone orally per day , from day 259 till day 273 and 1 mg from day 273 till delivery . main outcome measures -- effects of treatment were assessed in terms of maternal platelet counts after the first trimester and neonatal platelet counts at birth and the first week of life and neonatal bleeding episodes . results -- there were no significant differences in neonatal platelet counts at birth . two infants in the betamethasone group and one in the untreated group had a severe thrombocytopenia either at birth or during the first week of life ( less than 50 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . seven infants in the betamethasone group and six in the non-treatment group had a mild thrombocytopenia . the overall frequency of neonatal thrombocytopenia was similar : 64 % in the betamethasone group and 57 % in the untreated group ( 95 % ci of the true difference : -43.5 % to +29.5 % ) . there was also no significant difference in neonatal bleeding episodes . conclusions -- low-dose betamethasone in pregnant women with itp does not prevent thrombocytopenia or bleeding in their newborn infants . 
the hematopoietic defect in aplastic anemia assessed by long-term marrow culture . thirty-two patients with aplastic anemia ( aa ) have been studied using the long-term bone marrow culture ( ltbmc ) system . of these patients , 26 had been treated with immunosuppressive therapy including antilymphocyte globulin ( alg ) with or without androgens or high-dose methyl prednisolone . the remaining six patients either required no treatment or were studied before therapy was begun . thirty-one of 32 patients ( 96 % ) had defective hematopoiesis in ltbmc with little or no evidence for the generation of primitive progenitor cells . the only exception was a patient with spontaneous recovery of aplasia in whom the defect was less marked . crossover ltbmc experiments were performed in 23 cases by inoculating ( 1 ) patient marrow hematopoietic cells that had been depleted of adherent cells onto preformed , irradiated , normal stromas to assess the proliferative capacity of the hematopoietic cells , and ( 2 ) normal marrow hematopoietic cells that were depleted of adherent cells onto preformed , irradiated stromas from patients with aa to assess stromal function . results of these experiments demonstrated a hematopoietic defect in all patients that was independent of the degree of hematologic recovery after alg therapy . only one patient had a probable stromal defect and this coexisted with a defect in the regenerative capacity of hematopoietic cells . we conclude that ltbmc is a sensitive method for detecting and defining the hematopoietic failure in aa . we suggest that the defective hematopoiesis present in all patients studied may be important in the pathogenesis of clonal evolution in aa . 
enhanced endogenous leukotriene biosynthesis in patients treated with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor . the hematopoietic cytokine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) is being used in clinical trials for its potential in the treatment of hematopoietic insufficiency due to various causes . involvement of leukotrienes in the effects of gm-csf is suggested by analytical and pharmacologic evidence obtained in vitro . however , until now no data in support of a role of leukotrienes in gm-csf action in vivo have been presented . in the present investigation this question was approached by measurement of endogenous cysteinyl leukotriene formation in patients treated with the cytokine for cytopenia induced by cytostatic drugs or for refractory anemia with excess of blasts ( raeb ) . endogenous cysteinyl leukotriene formation was assessed by determination of urinary leukotriene metabolites using combined high-performance liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay analysis . after gm-csf administration a distinct increase in urinary cysteinyl leukotrienes was found in the cytopenic and the raeb patients that ranged from 2.3 - to 57-fold and 2.4 - to 333-fold , respectively . in the cytopenic patients the increase in leukotriene production was correlated to an expansion of peripheral blood leukocytes ; raeb patients responded to gm-csf with enhanced leukotriene biosynthesis even if the peripheral leukocytes decreased , possibly due to an abnormal number and/or irritability of leukotriene-producing cells . the increase in endogenous leukotriene production during therapy with gm-csf may indicate that leukotrienes play a role in gm-csf action in vivo . 
deficiency of glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol-linked membrane glycoproteins of leukocytes in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria , description of a new diagnostic cytofluorometric assay . paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria ( pnh ) is a disease that affects not only red cells , but other blood cells as well . the common defect is supposed to be an acquired deficiency of glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol ( gpi ) - anchored membrane proteins , which may be present already at the hematopoietic stem cell level . recently , a panel of monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) has become available directed against various gpi-linked membrane proteins . this makes it possible to study various cell lineages for the deficiency of such proteins in pnh in more detail . using cytofluorography , we could show that the granulocytes of 20 different pnh patients miss not only gpi-linked fcriii ( cd16 antigen ) , but also three other gpi-linked proteins , ie , cd24 antigen , cd67 antigen and a granulocyte-specific 50 to 80 kd antigen . the affected granulocytes were not only neutrophils but also eosinophils , as was found in a more detailed analysis of three patients . moreover , in all 10 pnh patients tested , the monocytes were found to be deficient for the gpi-linked cd14 antigen , and we found with cd24 and cd55 ( daf ) antibodies that lymphocytes may be involved as well . however , abnormal b and t lymphocytes were detected only in a subset of patients ( 2 of 10 tested ) . the uniform deficiency of gpi-linked proteins of granulocytes allows the introduction of a new diagnostic cytofluorometric assay for pnh with moabs against gpi-linked granulocytic antigens . this test was positive in all pnh patients studied and not in a group of 40 control patients or 50 normal donors , with the exception of three of 16 aplastic anemia ( aa ) patients . in the three aa patients , subpopulations ( 10 % to 20 % ) of pnh granulocytes could be detected , whereas these patients had a negative acidified serum ( ham ) test . this indicates that the new test is more sensitive than the ham test and allows the early diagnosis of pnh in aa . an advantage of the neutrophil assay is that , in contrast to the ham test , it is not influenced by recent red-cell transfusions . moreover , it is possible to quantify the number of affected cells by single cell analysis . 
impaired iron uptake and transferrin binding by erythroblasts in the anaemia of rheumatoid arthritis . serum and bone marrow from 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and five healthy controls were studied in order to establish a possible role of impaired iron uptake and transferrin binding by erythroblasts in the pathophysiology of anaemia of chronic disease ( acd ) in ra . iron incorporation into erythroblasts was reduced in patients with acd using a method based on incubation of erythroblasts with radiolabelled 59fe-125i-transferrin . it correlated negatively with c-reactive protein ( crp ) . in iron deficient ra patients it tended to be reduced as well . these patients had the same level of ra disease activity as in acd . transferrin binding by erythroblasts was significantly impaired in acd compared to controls , although it tended to be reduced in all ra groups . these findings suggest that impaired iron uptake by erythroblasts , probably due to decreased transferrin binding to erythroblasts , might be a pathophysiological factor in acd in ra . 
erythema infectiosum and pregnancy-related complications erythema infectiosum , an acute , communicable viral disease with a highly distinctive exanthem , follows the usual course of a self-limiting benign disease . in pregnant women , however , it may be associated with fetal death and nonimmune hydrops fetalis . because of the association of human parvovirus ( hpv ) b19 infection with fetal damage we reviewed the current knowledge of the clinical aspects of erythema infectiosum , focusing on pregnancy and fetal outcome , to determine the magnitude of fetal risk and offer recommendations for management . among 180 infected pregnant women 44 fetal deaths ( 24 % ) occurred , 1 to 12 weeks after the infection was noted . pregnant women should be advised that ( a ) because of the high prevalence ( up to 65 % ) of anti-hpv b19 igg antibody among adults most of them are not at risk and ( b ) if maternal infection does occur therapeutic abortion is not indicated since intrauterine infection causes fetal death more often than abnormal development . infection should be suspected in pregnant women who exhibit the symptoms of erythema infectiosum with or without arthropathy . they should be monitored for an elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein level ( indicating fetal aplastic crisis ) and undergo serial ultrasonography for the detection of hydrops fetalis . although the incidence of congenital malformation is no higher than the expected rate in the general population ( 3 % to 5 % ) , the precise incidence of fetal adverse outcomes remains unknown and requires investigation in larger , prospective studies . 
a phase i study of a new cisplatin derivative for hematologic malignancies . dwa2114r ( dwa ) is a new derivative of platin compounds that is currently being used in phase ii studies of solid tumors in japan . the dose-limiting factor is myelotoxicity with mild extramedullary toxicity . this phase i study consisted of adult patients with relapsed hematologic malignancies . eight patients received a total of 15 treatment courses of dwa . the starting dose was 800 mg/m2 over 24 hours by continuous infusion . the dose was first increased to 1200 mg/m2 and then to 1600 mg/m2 . clinical toxicity and urinary excretion studies of dwa suggested that 1200 mg/m2/d for successive days would be the best type of administration . when 1200 mg/m2/d was given for 5 days , grade 2 to 3 diarrhea and nausea and vomiting were encountered requiring parenteral fluids and nutritional support . this suggested that the dose-limiting factor with this schedule was gastrointestinal toxicity . myelotoxicity was severe , as expected , but tolerable . one of the five patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) entered into complete remission and one patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) in crisis returned to the chronic phase . a phase ii trial of dwa is warranted for hematologic malignancies , especially in myeloid diseases . 
a phase i study of 4 ' -0 - tetrahydropyranyladriamycin . clinical pharmacology and pharmacokinetics . a phase i study of intravenous ( iv ) bolus 4 ' -0 - tetrahydropyranyladriamycin ( pirarubicin ) was done in 55 patients in good performance status with refractory tumors . twenty-six had minimal prior therapy ( good risk ) , 23 had extensive prior therapy ( poor risk ) , and six had renal and/or hepatic dysfunction . a total of 167 courses at doses of 15 to 70 mg/m2 were evaluable . maximum tolerated dose in good-risk patients was 70 mg/m2 , and in poor-risk patients , 60 mg/m2 . the dose-limiting toxic effect was transient noncumulative granulocytopenia . granulocyte nadir was on day 14 ( range , 4-22 ) . less frequent toxic effects included thrombocytopenia , anemia , nausea , mild alopecia , phlebitis , and mucositis . myelosuppression was more in patients with hepatic dysfunction . pharmacokinetic analyses in 21 patients revealed pirarubicin plasma t 1/2 alpha ( + / - se ) of 2.5 + / - 0.85 minutes , t beta 1/2 of 25.6 + / - 6.5 minutes , and t 1/2 gamma of 23.6 + / - 7.6 hours . the area under the curve was 537 + / - 149 ng/ml x hours , volume of distribution ( vd ) 3504 + / - 644 l/m2 , and total clearance ( clt ) was 204 + 39.3 l/hour/m2 . adriamycinol , doxorubicin , adriamycinone , and tetrahydropyranyladriamycinol were the metabolites detected in plasma and the amount of doxorubicin was less than or equal to 10 % of the total metabolites . urinary excretion of pirarubicin in the first 24 hours was less than or equal to 10 % . activity was noted in mesothelioma , leiomyosarcoma , and basal cell carcinoma . the recommended starting dose for phase ii trials is 60 mg/m2 iv bolus every 3 weeks . 
successful treatment of metastatic thymic carcinoma with cisplatin , vinblastine , bleomycin , and etoposide chemotherapy . thymic carcinomas are rare malignant neoplasms of the thymic epithelium that are distinguished from the malignant thymomas by the presence of cytologic atypia . thymic carcinomas may metastasize outside of the thorax and are associated with a very poor prognosis . complete responses of thymic carcinoma to chemotherapy alone have not been reported . a 21-year-old man with metastatic undifferentiated carcinoma of probable thymic origin is presented who achieved a pathologic complete response with cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin chemotherapy . additional consolidative chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide was administered . the patient remains disease-free 5 years after diagnosis . cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin chemotherapy appears to have significant activity against thymic carcinoma . 
sarcoid reaction mimicking intrathoracic dissemination of testicular cancer . the close observation of patients treated for testicular cancer led to the suspicion of intrathoracic and/or mediastinal metastases on radiologic examination in a number of patients without other evidence of relapse . this report presents two patients with combined seminomatous and nonseminomatous germ cell tumors with isolated sarcoid reactions of hilar and interlobular lymph nodes , detected concomitant with diagnosis and 12 months after diagnosis , respectively . histologic examination appears to be imperative in these cases to avoid unnecessary chemotherapy . 
effect of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on neutropenia due to chemotherapy for non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . the authors administered recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( rhg-csf ) to 16 patients with advanced non-hodgkin 's lymphoma treated with combination chemotherapy . groups of three to five patients were treated with 50 , 100 , 200 , and 400 micrograms/m2 per day of rhg-csf by intravenous infusion for 14 days , beginning 3 days after chemotherapy . there was a strong linear relationship between the dose and the area under the curve over this dose range . the rhg-csf was rapidly cleared from serum , with a mean half-life of 5.97 hours for the second phase ( t1/2 ) . in patients treated with a dose of more than 100 micrograms/m2 per day , the duration of neutropenia ( p less than 0.01 ) and the duration of fever ( p less than 0.05 ) were significantly decreased . the rhg-csf was well tolerated and the only clinical observation that appeared relating to rhg-csf administration was slight bone pain . this study strongly suggests that an optimum dose of rhg-csf in patients after chemotherapy is 100 to 200 micrograms/m2 . our study shows that rhg-csf is a clinically useful drug for patients treated with myelosuppressive chemotherapy . 
anaesthesia for renal transplantation in sickle cell disease . sickle cell disease ( scd ) is associated with many pathological and functional abnormalities affecting all organ systems . renal manifestations of scd may result in end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) , which can be treated by chronic haemodialysis or renal transplantation . renal transplantation was successfully performed in a 25-yr-old male with sickle cell beta-thalassaemia and nephrotic syndrome . we present a case report of this patient , a discussion of the renal complications associated with scd and the perioperative management of a patient with scd undergoing renal transplantation . 
splenic septic emboli in endocarditis . the significance of septic emboli to the spleen is inferred by the frequency of septic emboli in general seen in patients with left-sided infective endocarditis who are referred for valve replacement . to determine the proper management of splenic infarcts and abscess due to septic emboli , we retrospectively reviewed the records of 108 patients with left-sided endocarditis who underwent valvular surgery at the university of illinois hospital from 1980 through 1988 . intravenous drug abuse was the etiology in 68 % ( n = 73 ) . the incidence of splenic infarcts and abscess was 19 % ( n = 20 ) , but an incidental finding of splenic infarcts was found in 38 % ( n = 11 ) of 29 asymptomatic patients who had computed tomograms . streptococci and staphylococci were the causative organisms in 85 % ( n = 17 ) . localized findings were absent in 90 % of splenic infarcts and abscesses . abdominal computed tomograms were diagnostic of the sequelae of splenic septic emboli in 100 % . no patient had intra-abdominal bleeding complications associated with cardiopulmonary bypass . splenectomy was performed in 50 % ( n = 10 ) of patients 3-24 days ( mean , 11.2 days ) after valve replacement . indications for splenectomy included persistent sepsis in 60 % ( n = 6 ) , large ( greater than 2 cm ) and peripheral lesions in 30 % ( n = 3 ) , and splenic rupture in 10 % ( n = 1 ) . perioperative mortality of patients who underwent splenectomy was 30 % ( n = 3 ) . the following conclusions can be drawn : 1 ) splenic septic embolus is common in endocarditis . 2 ) abdominal computed tomography should be performed for all patients . 
fluosol da-20 in the treatment of severe anemia : randomized , controlled study of 46 patients . we evaluated the safety and efficacy of fluosol da-20 % ( fda ) as a blood substitute in the treatment of severe anemia . thirty-six patients received either fda ( n = 21 ) or crystalloid/hydroxyethyl starch ( chs ) ( n = 15 ) as part of a randomized , controlled trial . ten patients received fda as part of a humanitarian protocol . all were jehovah 's witnesses who refused transfusion , had bled recently , and had average hgb levels of 4.3 g/dl . after pulmonary artery catheter insertion , each patient was infused with chs to attain a pulmonary artery wedge pressure ( wp ) of 10 to 18 mm hg . fda was given as a one-time dose of 30 ml/kg . data were collected at baseline , 12 , 24 , and 48 h. none of the patients with negative reactions to a 0.5-ml test dose of fda had adverse reactions to the subsequent infusion . the plasma or dissolved component of oxygen content was significantly higher in the fda group at 12 h ( fda group 1.58 + / - 0.47 ml/dl , control group 1.01 + / - 0.31 ml/dl , p less than .02 , t-test ) . nineteen patients died : 12 ( 37.5 % ) fda , seven ( 46.6 % ) control . the difference was not significant . we conclude the following : a ) fda can be given safely to severely anemic patients in doses of 30 ml/kg ; b ) fda significantly increased the dissolved component of oxygen content after 12 h but the effect did not persist ; c ) severely anemic patients can survive without transfusion although mortality is high . in this study , inability of fda to sustain increased oxygen content was due in part to the rapid elimination of fda and also to the limited amount given . 
exercise performance of polycythemic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients . effect of phlebotomies . the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of phlebotomy on the exercise tolerance and right and left ventricular ejection fraction of polycythemic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . ten patients with copd ( mean fev1 = 1.32 + / - 0.55 l ) and polycythemia ( mean hct = 62 + / - 3 percent ) were studied before and after their hematocrits had been reduced to approximately 50 percent . post-phlebotomy the maximal oxygen consumption increased from 1.09 + / - 0.34 l/min to 1.26 + / - 0.43 l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) and the maximum workload increased from 56.5 + / - 32.6 watts to 74.5 + / - 23.4 watts ( p less than 0.05 ) . the increase in the exercise tolerance appeared to be primarily due to an increased cardiac output at emax . there was no relationship between the increases in the upright exercise capacity and changes in the supine ejection fractions of the right or left ventricular either at rest or during exercise . 
serum concentration of soluble interleukin-2 receptor as a sensitive parameter of disease activity in sarcoidosis . we investigated the clinical value of measuring serum concentrations of soluble il-2r in monitoring sarcoidosis . serum concentrations of soluble il-2r were measured in 70 patients with sarcoidosis . the mean value for active untreated sarcoidosis was 1,143 + / - 509 u/ml , while the normal range in 97 healthy control subjects was 80 to 300 u/ml . the mean value for active untreated sarcoidosis was significantly higher than that for dormant disease ( 353 + / - 183 u/ml ) or that for corticosteroid-treated patients ( 380 + / - 151 u/ml ) . serial changes in serum soluble il-2r level were studied in cases of spontaneous remission or in corticosteroid-treated patients ; a good correlation was noted between the changes in serum level of soluble il-2r and clinical status . a positive correlation was noted between serum concentration of soluble il-2r and serum ace activity . these data confirmed that measurement of serum concentration of soluble il-2r could be used in monitoring the disease activity in sarcoidosis . 
cardiopulmonary assessment in beta-thalassemia major . thalassemia patients succumb at a young age to congestive heart failure . hitherto , attention has been focused on left ventricular function . this report emphasizes right ventricular dysfunction and abnormal pulmonary function . we performed cardiopulmonary evaluation , including echo-doppler , spirometry , co diffusion ( dco ) , and blood gas analyses in 35 patients with homozygous beta-thalassemia maintained by multiple blood transfusions . six autopsy lung specimens were studied . thalassemia patients exhibited pulmonary dysfunction , characterized by hypoxemia ( 85 percent of the patients were outside the 95 percent confidence limits ) , reduced lung volumes ( 51 percent ) , flow rates ( 63 percent ) and dco ( 50 percent ) . right ventricular dysfunction was more prevalent than left ventricular dysfunction . furthermore , 75 percent of the patients had evidence of pulmonary hypertension consistent with more frequent right ventricular rather than left ventricular dysfunction . our findings suggest that in thalassemia patients , complex cardiopulmonary abnormalities precede the final outcome of congestive heart failure . 
cardiac abnormalities in children with sickle cell anemia . the cardiac status of 64 children ( ages 0.2 to 18 yr ) with sickle cell anemia documented by hemoglobin electrophoresis was evaluated by echocardiography . left atrial , left ventricular and aortic root dimensions were significantly increased in over 60 percent of these children at all ages compared to values for 99 normal black ( non-sca ) control subjects . left ventricular wall thickness was increased in only 20 percent of older children with sickle cell anemia . estimated lv mass/m2 and left ventricular cardiac index were increased compared to control subjects ( p less than 0.001 ) . left heart abnormalities expressed as a single composite function , derived from multivariate regression analysis , correlated well with severity of anemia expressed as grams of hemoglobin ( r = -0.52 , p = less than 0.001 ) and with percentage of hemoglobin s ( r = 0.51 , p less than 0.001 ) , but not to the same extent with age . echocardiographically assessed left ventricular function at rest was comparable to that of control subjects . these data suggest that the major cardiac abnormalities in children are related to the volume overload effects of chronic anemia , and that in this age group , there is no evidence for a distinct " sickle cell cardiomyopathy " or cardiac dysfunction . 
pulse oximetry . uses and abuses . pulse oximetry has made a significant contribution to noninvasive monitoring in a wide variety of clinical situations . it allows for continuous reliable measurements of oxygen saturation while avoiding the discomfort and risks of arterial puncture . as the extent of hypoxic episodes during various procedures and clinical settings is better appreciated , the role of continuous noninvasive monitoring will undoubtedly expand . an understanding of the principles and technology of pulse oximetry will allow physicians to obtain maximal clinical benefit from its use . 
anti-kveim monoclonal antibody . new monoclonal antibody reacting to epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas . a monoclonal antibody to the sarcoid granulomagenic agent contained in kveim suspension was prepared by immunizing mice with kveim suspension . one monoclonal antibody ( ihy-1 ) that reacted with the epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas on immunoperoxidase technique was selected . the immunoperoxidase technique was used to compare this monoclonal antibody 's binding to sarcoidosis - or tuberculosis-affected lymph nodes . ihy-1 is a monoclonal antibody of igm class . this antibody did not react to erythrocytes , lymphocytes , monocytes , alveolar macrophages , or the macrophage-derived cell lines such as u-973 and kg-1 . it reacted to granuloma epithelioid cells of sarcoidosis-affected lymph nodes . the monoclonal antibody also reacted positively to epithelioid cells in tuberculous granulomas although the reaction was not as strong . since ihy-1 was found to bind to both types of granulomas , this suggests that the epithelioid cells in sarcoidosis have antigenicity common to the epithelioid cells in tuberculosis . 
occult fatal pulmonary embolism with disseminated intravascular coagulation . an unusual case masquerading as miliary tuberculosis . we report a fatal case of occult pulmonary embolism complicating bronchogenic carcinoma which presented with rapidly progressive pulmonary miliary shadows and respiratory failure . a clotting profile abnormality compatible with disseminated intravascular coagulation was noted . postmortem examination showed extensive clots occluding the major pulmonary vessels and areas of pulmonary infarcts . histologic examination revealed fibrin deposition in the microvasculature compatible with dic . cases of pulmonary embolism with dic have previously been reported , but this is the first case with pathologic confirmation . thus , unusual presentation with diffuse lung shadow and dic should not deter the clinician from correct diagnosis so that appropriate treatment can be promptly started . 
the malignancy-sarcoidosis syndrome . in a retrospective review of six patients with malignancy preceding sarcoidosis , we found four cases of malignant lymphoproliferative disease ( ld ) and one case each of ovarian cancer and breast cancer . the median interval from onset or relapse of malignancy to sarcoidosis was nine months . of the four patients with ld , sarcoidosis appeared within six months of termination of chemotherapy for three of the patients and 15 months after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for the fourth patient . at the time of diagnosis of sarcoidosis , there was no clinical or pathologic evidence of malignancy in the chest . we conclude that in contradistinction to the previously described syndrome of sarcoidosis preceding ld , there exists a syndrome of sarcoidosis following malignancy with or without chemotherapy . 
a case of massive true thymic hyperplasia with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . a case of massive true thymic hyperplasia with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the mediastinum is reported in a 14-year-old boy . computed tomographic scan of the chest showed a mass of the anterior mediastinum and conspicuous swelling of the lymph nodes in the upper and lower mediastinum . they were grossly resected . the tumor of the anterior mediastinum was histologically diagnosed as true thymic hyperplasia . all of the mediastinal lymph nodes were diagnosed as non-hodgkin 's lymphoma , diffuse , mixed small and large cell type . 
hepatic vascular disease and portal hypertension in polycythemia vera and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia : a clinicopathological study of 145 patients examined at autopsy . the pathogenesis of portal hypertension arising in patients with myeloproliferative disorders has been difficult to understand because liver biopsy findings often show minimal changes . it has been suggested that increased splenic blood flow , hepatic infiltration with hematopoietic cells or sinusoidal fibrosis may be important . we have reviewed the autopsy findings and clinical histories of 97 patients with polycythemia vera and 48 patients with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia collected from three institutions and from the polycythemia vera study group . cirrhosis was present in seven patients , one of whom had bleeding varices . esophageal varices were present clinically in 10 patients without cirrhosis ( seven polycythemia and three agnogenic myeloid metaplasia ) . all of these patients had lesions in small or medium-sized portal veins and four had stenosis of the extrahepatic portal vein with histology compatible with organized thrombi . nodular regenerative hyperplasia occurred in 14.6 % and correlated closely with the presence of portal vein lesions . thirty patients had greater than 500 ml of ascites , seven of these patients also had varices and six of them had hepatic vein thrombosis . ascites also correlated with hepatic vein disease confined to small intrahepatic branches . no correlation was seen between hepatic hematopoietic infiltration and signs of portal hypertension . we conclude that esophageal varices are common and are almost always associated with portal vein lesions visible by light microscopy . these portal vein lesions , and the secondary effects of nodular regenerative hyperplasia and portal hypertension , are most likely a result of portal vein thrombosis in patients with myeloproliferative disorders . 
on the need for erythropoietin treatment in dialysis patients . a copenhagen city dialysis unit study we evaluated the need for erythropoietin ( epo ) treatment in 134 end-stage renal disease patients assuming a level of hemoglobin below 6 mmol/l ( 9.6 g/dl ) as indication for treatment . 91 patients ( 68 % ) fulfilled this criterion . absolute contraindications in 2 patients were previous thrombotic encephalopathy and refusal of treatment . relative contraindications due to cardiac disease were found in 3 patients . in 15 patients additional treatment was required because of hypertension ( 5 ) or deficiency states ( 10 ) . the implications of elevated serum pth and aluminum overload are discussed . 
magnetic resonance imaging of the bone marrow following treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin in patients with end-stage renal disease . we used magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) to study vertebral bone marrow in hemodialysis patients during treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin ( rhuepo ) . we found changes in t1 relaxation times and image contrast within 14 days after starting treatment , before any response was seen in the hemoglobin concentration in peripheral blood . the increase in t1 relaxation times , together with earlier reported changes observed with localized magnetic resonance spectroscopy , indicate an alteration in cellular composition of the hemopoietic bone marrow with an increase in the amount of hemopoietic active tissue . mri may be a useful , non-invasive way of evaluating bone marrow response to different modes of rhuepo administration and dosage . 
aggressive blood conservation in coronary artery surgery : impact on patient care . data on 100 consecutive non-emergency coronary artery bypass ( cabg ) patients were analyzed retrospectively . sixty-nine patients received no homologous blood ( group i ) . thirty-one patients received a total of 118 units of blood products averaging 2.23 units of red cells ( group ii ) . the average red cell transfusion rate for all patients was 0.7 units per patient . the median age for group i was 61 and group ii was 68 years ( p less than 0.05 ) . the average number of grafts was the same for both ( 3 per patient ) with 75 % of group i and 58 % of group ii receiving internal mammary artery ( ima ) grafts ( p less than 0.05 ) . twelve of the group ii patients who received intraoperative transfusions on cardiopulmonary bypass to maintain adequate hemoglobin levels were older and had lower admission hematocrits : 36 + / - 0.8 % compared to 41 + / - 0.5 % for all other patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . average postoperative blood loss was 889 + / - 38 ml for group i and 1077 + / - 104 ml for group ii ( p less than 0.05 ) . increased hemorrhage was correlated with bypass time and ima use but not with preoperative heparin administration , pre-existing risk factors ( diabetes , hypertension , etc. ) , bleeding time , post-bypass clotting time , age or number of grafts . two patients in group ii and none in group i required exploration for excessive postoperative hemorrhage . mortality rate was 2 % ( both in group ii , neither transfusion related ) . discharge hematocrits were the same for all at 29.4 + / - 0.4 % . among anemia-related postoperative symptoms , only sinus tachycardia was significantly higher in group i ( 20 % ) compared to group ii ( 6.5 % ) . 
cells immunoreactive for neuropeptide in human thymomas . the presence of opioid peptides , bombesin , and substance p was investigated by immunohistochemistry in tissue sections from six human thymomas . the number of immunoreactive cells seemed to vary from one case to another . ultrastructural investigation , showing the presence of desmosomes in labelled cells , allowed these cells to be classified as epithelial lineage cells . the occurrence of cells containing neuropeptide in thymomas suggest that peptide molecules could have modulated the behaviour of this tumour , given the reported influence of these molecules on immune functions and their growth promoting activity on several cell types , including mesenchymal and epithelial cells . 
hypergammaglobulinemic purpura of waldenstrom . hypergammaglobulinemic purpura of waldenstrom is characterized by hypergammaglobulinemia , recurring purpura , an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and the presence of rheumatoid factor indicative of circulating immune complexes . there is a significant association with autoimmune diseases , especially sjogren 's syndrome and lupus erythematosus . hypergammaglobulinemic purpura is considered primary when there is no other associated disease or secondary when associated with other diseases , usually autoimmune . immune derangements are fundamental in its pathogenesis , although its cause is still unknown . therapy is unrewarding and is probably unnecessary for this usually benign condition . three cases are presented that are representative of patients with hypergammaglobulinemic purpura . 
eosinophilic pustular folliculitis : fungal folliculitis ? eosinophilic pustular folliculitis is a rare condition with no known cause . however , a fungal cause is suggested by ( 1 ) tinea-like annular lesions , ( 2 ) initial clinical consideration of fungal folliculitis in many reported cases , ( 3 ) an association with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , and ( 4 ) an association with scaly and vesiculopustular lesions of palms and soles . we report a case histologically identical to eosinophilic pustular folliculitis but in which hyphal fungal organisms were demonstrated in one of the involved hair follicles . 
traumatic asphyxia . traumatic asphyxia is a distinctive clinical syndrome characterized by cervicofacial cyanosis and edema , multiple petechiae , and subconjunctival hemorrhage after a severe crush injury of the thorax or of the upper part of the abdomen . a case of traumatic asphyxia is reported , and its clinical and pathophysiologic features are discussed . 
mandibular osteomyelitis in a patient with sickle cell anemia : report of case . a case is presented in which mandibular osteomyelitis and mental nerve paresthesia developed in a patient with sickle cell anemia . this infection appeared to precipitate a sickle cell crisis . the mechanisms for these patients ' propensity to infection and the diagnosis and management of sickle cell osteomyelitis of the jaws are discussed . 
elevated serum interleukin-6 associated with a failure in b cell differentiation in common variable immunodeficiency . interleukin-6 ( il-6 / b cell stimulatory factor 2 ) has been found to drive activated human b-lymphocytes through the final stages of differentiation to become immunoglobulin-producing cells . most patients with common variable immunodeficiency ( cvi ) have b-lymphocytes that fail to differentiate into high-rate immunoglobulin-secreting cells in vivo and in vitro . in view of ( 1 ) the known effects of il-6 to promote b-lymphocyte terminal differentiation and ( 2 ) the defect in differentiation in b-lymphocytes of patients with cvi , we believed that it was important to analyze the role of this cytokine in patients with cvi . using an il-6-dependent murine hybridoma cell line in a bioassay , serum il-6 levels were determined in 17 patients with cvi and in eight normal control subjects . thirteen of the 17 patients with cvi exhibited serum il-6 levels that were twofold to 18-fold higher than the range ( mean , +2 sd ) of normal control subjects . spontaneous il-6 production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmc ) of patients with cvi was significantly higher than that from normal control subjects , whereas lipopolysaccharide maximally stimulated il-6 production by pbmcs of patients with cvi or pbmcs of normal control subjects was equivalent . a substance inhibitory of il-6 bioactivity was found in equivalent amounts in sera of both patients and normal control subjects . sera from patients with cvi with high il-6 bioactivity were found to have saturated this il-6 inhibitory substance , thus resulting in large amounts of free il-6 in the sera . these studies suggest that the failure of b cells from patients with cvi to terminally differentiate into high-rate immunoglobulin-secreting cells can not be attributed to a decrease in the serum levels of il-6 and that the increased circulating il-6 levels in patients with cvi result from hyperproduction rather than decreased use of il-6 . the persistently elevated levels of il-6 observed in some patients with cvi may secondarily result in the induction of the neoplastic and autoimmune phenomena associated with this disease . 
down regulation in hypersensitivity pneumonitis . levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptor ( sol-il-2r ) in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( balf ) of pigeon breeders with hypersensitivity pneumonitis were compared with balf levels in asymptomatic pigeon breeders who had been exposed to pigeon allergens for an equivalent length of time . no mean difference in sol-il-2r levels was detected when these levels were expressed per milliliter balf , epithelial lining fluid , or per t-lymphocyte . in sarcoidosis , the availability of sol-il-2r per t cell was significantly higher for the group with inactive sarcoidosis compared with the group with active sarcoidosis . the results do not support the hypothesis that down regulation , in subjects exposed to allergens causing hypersensitivity pneumonitis , is a function of cell-free sol-il-2r levels in balf . in the dynamic situation , however , the hypothesis appears tenable . 
small bile duct abnormalities in sarcoidosis . we report four patients with hepatic involvement of sarcoidosis manifested primarily by bile duct depletion . the patients developed fever , weight loss , anorexia , a markedly elevated alkaline phosphatase , and mildly abnormal serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography showed slight intrahepatic irregularities but were not diagnostic of sclerosing cholangitis . liver biopsy showed predominantly bile duct depletion , ranging from an estimated 10-100 % absence of bile ducts in portal areas , which correlated with the degree of fibrosis . the degree of bile duct depletion is useful as a histological marker in patients with sarcoid liver disease . steroids improve symptoms , but do not inhibit the development of " ductopenia . " . 
early hospital discharge of children with cancer treated for fever and neutropenia : identification and management of the low-risk patient . children with leukemia and solid tumors are often hospitalized for empiric broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy because of fever during periods of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia . conventional practice dictates that parenteral antibiotics be continued until the patient is afebrile and has recovered from neutropenia , ie , until the absolute neutrophil count ( anc ) exceeds 500 cells per cubic millimeter . however , the practice in our center has been to discontinue parenteral antibiotic therapy and discharge many such patients before resolution of neutropenia . since the feasibility and safety of this approach has not been studied , we reviewed the records of 114 consecutive hospitalizations for fever and neutropenia in 61 patients during a 13-month period . seventy-seven children ( 68 % ) were discharged to their homes while still neutropenic after they had been afebrile for 1 to 2 days on parenteral antibiotics , had negative blood cultures , appeared well , and usually had some evidence of bone marrow recovery . five patients ( 4.4 % ) developed recurrent fever and required rehospitalization within 7 days of discharge . only three of the 77 patients ( 3.9 % ) who were sent home with neutropenia had recurrent fever . each had a brief and uneventful second hospitalization . two of the 37 children discharged with an anc over 500 cells per cubic millimeter required rehospitalization . a declining anc and advanced malignancy were risk factors in predicting recurrence of fever following discharge . a rising monocyte count was a predictor of imminent recovery from neutropenia . these results suggest that " early " discharge of an afebrile yet still neutropenic patient is safe when the patient is in remission , has no evidence of serious infection , appears clinically stable , and has indications of bone marrow recovery . the conventional approach of routinely continuing the hospitalization until resolution of neutropenia may be unnecessary in such low-risk patients . 
mechlorethamine , vincristine , and procarbazine chemotherapy for recurrent high-grade glioma in adults : a phase ii study . we undertook a phase ii study of combination chemotherapy with mechlorethamine ( nitrogen mustard ) 6 mg/m2 intravenously day 1 and day 8 , vincristine 2 mg intravenously day 1 and day 8 , and procarbazine 100 mg/m2 orally days 1 through 14 ( mop ) in adults with recurrent high-grade glioma . there were 31 patients entered and 27 patients assessable for response . the median age was 49 years old . all patients had prior maximal radiotherapy , and eight had previous chemotherapy . responses were determined based on clinical and computed tomographic ( ct ) scan/magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) criteria . the response rate ( partial response [ pr ] plus objective qualitative response [ oqr ] plus complete response [ cr ] ) was 52 % with one cr . the response rate was higher in patients with anaplastic astrocytoma as compared with glioblastoma multiforme ( p less than .05 ) . the median duration of response was 42 weeks . median survival for all assessable patients was 30 weeks , and for responders , it was 60 weeks . response was correlated with ability to decrease dexamethasone doses and improved performance status . toxicity was mainly hematologic with leukopenia being common . there was one treatment-related death from listeria meningitis , and two patients developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . there were three episodes of neutropenic fever . we conclude that mop is active and merits further investigation in adult high-grade glioma . 
pediatric blunt liver injury and coagulopathy managed with packs and a silo : case report . packing the abdomen can be lifesaving when severe hepatic trauma is complicated by refractory hypothermia , coagulopathy , and continuing hemorrhage requiring large-volume transfusion . this report describes the successful use of abdominal packs and a modified silo in a child following blunt liver injury . 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in the treatment of eosinophilic cystitis . a 30-year-old white woman with urinary frequency , left costovertebral angle pain and hematuria had left hydronephrosis , a marked decrease in bladder capacity and severe eosinophilic cystitis on biopsy . she was treated with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug and an antihistamine , with a dramatic , complete and rapid recovery . the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug was believed to have been responsible for the favorable outcome , since antihistamines have not produced reliable benefits in this disease . nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are recommended in cases of eosinophilic cystitis . 
nephron function in the early phase of ischemic renal failure . significance of erythrocyte trapping . trapping of red blood cells ( rbcs ) in renal medulla vasculature in postischemic acute renal failure ( arf ) was found to depend upon the length of the ischemic period . thus trapping occurred after 45 minutes but not 25 minutes of ischemia . by prior hemodilution to a hematocrit ( hct ) of 30 % , rbc trapping after 45 minutes of ischemia could be completely prevented . likewise hemo-concentration ( hct = 60 % ) before 25 minutes of ischemia resulted in extensive rbc trapping . by increasing or decreasing the hct , the contribution of rbc trapping to the functional defects and decrease in renal blood flow that follows minor ( 25 min ) and more substantial ( 45 min ) ischemia was investigated . renal blood flow ( rbf ) was measured by microspheres , and vascular and tubular pressure by the micropuncture technique . glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) was estimated from inulin clearance , and tubular function from urine osmolality and sodium and potassium excretion . it was found that postischemic rbf was not correlated to rbc trapping but depended on the length of ischemia . after both 25 and 45 minutes of ischemia tubular obstructions occurred in the proximal tubules and/or loops of henle , causing an increase in proximal tubular pressure . these obstructions were dependent on the length of ischemia but not on rbc trapping . after hemoconcentration and 25 minutes of ischemia there was an increment in distal tubular pressure , indicating that abundant rbc trapping may contribute to an increase in tubular pressure by compression of medullary tubules and thereby reduce gfr . when the damage was more severe other factors came into play and the contribution of rbc trapping to the decrease in gfr was minimal . 
improvement of brain function in hemodialysis patients treated with erythropoietin . to evaluate the effects of recombinant human erythropoietin ( rhuepo ) on brain function , 15 chronic hemodialysis patients were studied by event-related p300 , stimulus-related evoked potentials , and trailmaking before ( hematocrit 22.7 % ) and after rhuepo ( hematocrit 30.6 % ) . p300 peak latency elicited by a tone discrimination paradigm improved ( 391 before vs. 366 ms after ; cz = vertex ; p less than 0.01 ) confirming beneficial effects on cerebral cognitive processing . p300 amplitude ( 13.6 vs. 15.8 microv ; p = 0.06 ) and trailmaking tended to improve ( 55 vs. 43 s ) . p300 measures were influenced by low hemoglobin levels before rhuepo ( p less than 0.01 ) , suggesting that severe anemia may contribute to uremic brain dysfunction . furthermore , decrease of stimulus-related auditory brainstem i-v interpeak latency ( 4.28 before vs. 4.17 ms after ; p less than 0.05 ) and increase of somatosensory n20/p25 amplitude ( 4.8 vs. 7.0 microv ; p less than 0.05 ) pointed to improvement of sensory pathways by mechanisms unrelated to cognition . brain dysfunction in chronic hemodialysis patients may , beside other factors , in part be caused by severe anemia and can be improved by rhuepo treatment . 
renal cell carcinoma associated with sarcoidlike tissue reaction . a 60-year-old man was referred to our institution with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis . because of several months ' complaint of right flank pain and weight loss , the patient had consulted his local physician . after an extensive workup revealed only cholelithiasis , he underwent a cholecystectomy for presumed chronic cholecystitis . at the time of operation , biopsy of several liver nodules and peripancreatic nodes revealed noncaseating granulomas , consistent with sarcoidosis . on initial examination at our institution , the patient had microhematuria . a chest roentgenogram demonstrated multiple pulmonary nodules , an abdominal computed tomographic scan showed an indeterminate left renal mass , and magnetic resonance imaging of the spine revealed abnormal signals in the body of t-12 . open-lung biopsy showed an adenocarcinoma with clear cell features , likely of renal origin . the patient was diagnosed as having a metastatic renal carcinoma associated with a sarcoidlike tissue reaction . although noncaseating granulomas have been reported in association with other malignant lesions , to our knowledge this is the first report of such an association with renal carcinoma . in addition , this case illustrates several points . first , sarcoidosis is a multisystem disorder with protean extrapulmonary manifestations . in fact , all our patient 's findings could have been attributed to sarcoidosis . second , noncaseating granulomas occur with many types of processes , including infections , chemical exposures , and , as in this case , neoplasms . thus , noncaseating granulomas are not pathognomonic for sarcoidosis . third , sarcoidosis is a clinical diagnosis that can not be based on histologic findings alone . 
coagulation factor abnormalities as possible thrombotic risk factors after fontan operations . severe thromboembolism occurred in 3 of 37 patients who had undergone fontan-type operations for correction of congenital heart defects several months to years after the operation . the patients were screened for coagulation factor abnormalities to find out whether known prothrombotic risk factors could explain the high frequency of thromboembolism . 63 abnormalities were found in 24 of the 37 patients . the commonest and most pronounced abnormality was deficiency of protein c , a known risk factor . concentrations of antithrombin iii and factors ii and x were significantly lower in protein-c-deficient patients than in those with normal protein c concentrations . these findings suggest that the high thrombotic risk in these patients is caused or at least associated with an imbalance between procoagulant and anticoagulant factors . 
value of antigen detection in predicting invasive pulmonary aspergillosis two elisas were used to detect serum and urinary aspergillus antigen in 121 patients who were profoundly neutropenic after leukaemia therapy or bone marrow transplantation . the presence of antigen correctly predicted development of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis ( ipa ) in 16 patients . in 2 other cases antigen appeared after the clinical diagnosis had been made , while in only 1 case was antigen not detected . in 11 of 13 episodes of clinically suspected fungal infection antigen was detected before clinical diagnosis was made . by contrast , antigen was detected in only 1 of 90 patients who had no evidence of ipa . both elisas gave positive and negative predictive values for ipa of greater than 95 % , demonstrating the value of antigen detection in early diagnosis of aspergillus infection and the assay 's ability to predict subsequent development of ipa . we conclude that neutropenic patients should be screened for aspergillus antigen , and propose that initial detection of fungal antigen justifies commencement of empirical antifungal therapy . such an approach should improve the survival of patients who are at risk of developing this usually fatal infection . 
comparison of oral iron chelator l1 and desferrioxamine in iron-loaded patients . the efficacy of the oral iron chelator 1,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one ( l1 ) was compared with that of subcutaneous desferrioxamine in 26 patients with transfusional iron overload . immediately after red-cell transfusion , 20 patients were randomised to receive either desferrioxamine ( 50 mg/kg daily as a 12 h subcutaneous infusion ) , or l1 ( 50 mg/kg daily by mouth ) . patients were evaluated during treatment with the other drug after transfusion the next month . mean ( sd ) daily urinary iron excretion was lower during l1 than during desferrioxamine ( 12.3 [ 6.7 ] vs 18.2 [ 15.3 ] mg/day ) . in 5 patients the dose of l1 was raised from 50 to 75 mg/kg daily ; mean urinary iron excretion rose from 13.8 ( 7.0 ) mg/day to 26.7 ( 17.8 ) mg/day , comparable with that during desferrioxamine ( 24.9 [ 24.3 ] mg/day ) . faecal iron excretion rose slightly over baseline in 6 patients studied during l1 administration ( from 8.5 [ 0.9 ] mg/day to 12.2 [ 0.9 ] mg/day ) . pharmacokinetic studies showed an elimination half-life for l1 of 117-237 min . studies in dogs and in volunteers showed no absorption of the l1-iron complex , excluding a contribution of absorption of intraluminal complexes of l1 and food iron to urinary iron excretion . further animal toxicity testing is needed before l1 can be studied in a broader group of patients . 
a chronic granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . a small clinically distinct group of patients with widespread tissue granulomata are described . the principal presenting symptoms are malaise , fever , and weight loss , although a wide variety of complaints are documented . pulmonary involvement is uncommon . the granulomata are noncaseating with a few multinucleate giant cells and some surrounding chronic inflammatory infiltrate . there is no evidence of an associated arteritis . the disease has a relapsing and remitting course and although it may require treatment with immunosuppressive drugs , particularly if the kidneys are involved , the prognosis is relatively good . we propose that this entity be called granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . the characteristics that set this syndrome apart from the other granulomatous vasculitides are discussed . the current limited understanding of granuloma formation does not allow us to propose a definite etiology for this condition . it is emphasized that it is not helpful to encompass it within a label of sarcoidosis . first , it may only serve to confuse the doctor in assessing and treating this very particular group of patients . secondly , it may hinder future attempts to understand the different pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the various conditions in which granulomata may arise . 
coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection . a review of 77 patients . through a retrospective review , we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during hiv infection . patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation : 20 had focal pulmonary disease ( group 1 ) , 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) , 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis ( group 3 ) , 9 had meningitis ( group 4 ) , 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement ( group 5 ) , and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection ( group 6 ) . coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83 % of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed . sera from 39 % of patients were positive for tp antibodies while 74 % had cf antibodies . eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease ( group 1 or 2 ) . serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar , with 26 % positive for immunodiffusion tp antibodies and 79 % positive for immunodiffusion cf antibodies . for the 77 patients in this study , the cd4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 x 10 ( 9 ) cells/l in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed , and a low cd4 count was significantly associated with mortality ( p less than 0.01 ) . at the time of follow-up , 32 of the 77 patients ( 42 % ) had died . there were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) than in other groups ( p less than 0.001 ) . amphotericin b , ketoconazole , fluconazole , and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies . outcome could not be related to the therapy used . of note , 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions . 
molecular defect of the band 3 protein in southeast asian ovalocytosis background . southeast asian ovalocytosis is a form of hereditary elliptocytosis in which the red cells are rigid and resistant to malaria invasion . the underlying molecular defect is unknown . methods and results . we studied the red cells of 54 patients with ovalocytosis and 122 normal controls . we found that ovalocytes contain a structurally and functionally abnormal band 3 protein , the principal transmembrane protein of red cells . the structural lesion of ovalocyte band 3 was revealed by limited proteolytic cleavage of the protein , which produced fragments of abnormal size that were derived from the cytoplasmic domain of the protein . the structural lesion was present in all the subjects with ovalocytosis but none of the controls . this region of band 3 serves as the principal binding site for the membrane skeleton , a submembrane protein network composed of ankyrin , spectrin , actin , and protein 4.1 . the structural defect is dominantly inherited , being tightly linked with the inheritance of ovalocytosis ( the probability of linkage is in excess of 10 million to 1 ) . ovalocyte band 3 bound considerably more tightly than normal band 3 to ankyrin , which connects the membrane skeleton to the band 3 protein . this tight binding of ovalocyte band 3 to the underlying skeleton containing ankyrin was directly confirmed in intact cells by the finding that ovalocyte band 3 had markedly reduced lateral mobility in the membrane . conclusions . the red cells in southeast asian ovalocytosis carry a structurally and functionally abnormal band 3 protein . this molecular defect may underlie the increased rigidity of the red cells and their resistance to invasion by malaria parasites . 
the agent of bacillary angiomatosis . an approach to the identification of uncultured pathogens background . bacillary angiomatosis is an infectious disease causing proliferation of small blood vessels in the skin and visceral organs of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and other immunocompromised hosts . the agent is often visualized in tissue sections of lesions with warthin-starry staining , but the bacillus has not been successfully cultured or identified . this bacillus may also cause cat scratch disease . methods . in attempting to identify this organism , we used the polymerase chain reaction . we used oligonucleotide primers complementary to the 16s ribosomal rna genes of eubacteria to amplify 16s ribosomal gene fragments directly from tissue samples of bacillary angiomatosis . the dna sequence of these fragments was determined and analyzed for phylogenetic relatedness to other known organisms . normal tissues were studied in parallel . results . tissue from three unrelated patients with bacillary angiomatosis yielded a unique 16s gene sequence . a sequence obtained from a fourth patient with bacillary angiomatosis differed from the sequence found in the other three patients at only 4 of 241 base positions . no related 16s gene fragment was detected in the normal tissues . these 16s sequences associated with bacillary angiomatosis belong to a previously uncharacterized microorganism , most closely related to rochalimaea quintana . conclusions . the cause of bacillary angiomatosis is a previously uncharacterized rickettsia-like organism , closely related to r. quintana . this method for the identification of an uncultured pathogen may be applicable to other infectious diseases of unknown cause . 
spinal cord thromboplastin-induced coagulopathy in a rabbit model . coagulopathy results from many diverse events , including several neurogenic causes . using a rabbit model , we produced coagulopathy by injecting autologous spinal cord and extracted thromboplastin intravenously . serial coagulation panels were performed to evaluate the activation of the thrombotic and fibrinolytic pathways . group 1 animals ( n = 4 ) received intravenous injections of homogenized spinal cord tissue . coagulopathy was not produced with 36 mg of homogenized spinal cord tissue , but 50 mg or more resulted in death . group 2 animals ( n = 12 ) received intravenous injections of extracted rabbit cord thromboplastin , which contained approximately 60 % activity of a commercially purified rabbit brain thromboplastin . five animals receiving 2.5 to 5.5 mg of thromboplastin per kilogram of body weight survived with evidence of coagulopathy . seven animals receiving 2.5 to 100 mg of thromboplastin per kilogram of body weight died . group 3 ( 4 control animals ) received normal saline injections without changes in clinical or laboratory status . the thrombotic pathway was activated in all animals as evidenced by decreased platelet counts and fibrinogen levels . activation of the fibrinolytic system was demonstrated by increased concentrations of protamine sulfate and abnormal euglobulin clot lysis times . the most sensitive parameters were the platelet count , protamine sulfate concentration , and white cell count ( margination ) , which became abnormal within 15 minutes after the injections and returned to normal within 1 hour . 
antibodies to synthetic peptide ( 125-148 ) of the alpha-subunit of human nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in sera from patients with myasthenia gravis . we measured the amount of antibodies to a synthetic peptide that corresponds to the alpha-subunit residues lys125-thr148 of human acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) in myasthenic sera . we detected anti-peptide antibodies in 52 % ( 89/171 ) of the patients with myasthenia gravis ( mg ) , but none in any of the healthy controls . anti-peptide antibodies should provide a valuable immunologic parameter for the clinical evaluation of mg , but no apparent correlation was observed between the titers of anti-peptide and anti-achr antibodies . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( l-tryptophan-associated neuromyopathy ) . histopathologic study of skeletal muscle biopsy in a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome following l-tryptophan use showed prominent lymphocytic perineuritis , neuritis , and perimysial fasciitis . the presence of perineuritis and neuritis provides a histopathologic basis for clinical features of neuropathy in eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and occurred in conjunction with a fasciitis or interstitial myositis that was predominantly perimysial and focally endomysial . 
doppler umbilical artery studies in the twin-twin transfusion syndrome . eleven patients with twin pregnancies were identified as having twin-twin transfusion syndrome on the basis of like-sex twins with monochorionic placentation and umbilical venous blood hemoglobin differences exceeding 50 g/l at delivery . umbilical artery velocity-time waveform studies had been performed in these pregnancies as part of a large series of 456 twin pregnancies . in all 11 cases , the systolic-diastolic ( s-d ) ratio differences between the twins were less than 1 unit ( mean 0.4 + / - 0.2 ) , indicating that in twin-twin transfusion , umbilical artery s-d ratios are concordant even in the presence of discordancy in fetal size . 
the myelodysplastic syndromes . case report and review . the myelodysplastic syndromes are a heterogenous group of hematologic disorders of myeloid progenitor cells . oral manifestations may be among the first signs and often reflect degrees of neutropenia or neutrophil dysfunction . a patient with persistent herpes labialis and severe oral mucosal ulceration in myelodysplastic syndrome is reported . the features of myelodysplasia are reviewed and their oral manifestations and significance to dental management outlined . 
thrombocytosis after pneumonia with empyema and other bacterial infections in children . thrombocytosis is seen in association with many conditions , including infectious diseases . we studied thrombocytosis after severe bacterial infections , particularly pneumonia with empyema in children . a systematic survey of the phenomenon was conducted . twenty-seven children admitted for pneumonia with empyema were studied . thrombocytosis ( platelet counts greater than 500 x 10 ( 3 ) / microliters ) was present in 92.5 % . platelet counts reached their maximum at 15.1 + / - 3.7 days ( range , 7 to 25 ) and declined to normal after 3 weeks of illness . compared with a healthy control group , significant thrombocytosis , but of lower incidence , was also noted in children with lobar pneumonia without pleural effusion , bacterial meningitis and osteomyelitis . platelet functions were examined in seven of the children but no abnormalities were observed . bone marrow aspiration of three children with pneumonia and empyema showed megakaryocytic hyperplasia . we found no correlation between thrombocytosis , neutrophilia , fever , the clinical course , complications , prognosis or treatment . neither thromboembolic nor hemorrhagic phenomena were observed . 
immunoglobulin g subclasses in serum and circulating immune complexes in patients with kawasaki syndrome . igg subclass concentrations in sera of 17 patients with kawasaki syndrome were determined . significantly increased igg1 ( p less than 0.001 ) and igg3 ( p less than 0.001 ) were found in the patients compared with 22 age-matched healthy children , whereas igg2 and igg4 were normal or slightly decreased . igg immune complexes were measured by protein a-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) combined polyethylene glycol precipitations . eight of 17 patients ( 47.1 % ) were found to have circulating immune complexes ( cic ) values above the normal control range ( geometric mean +2 sd ) . igg subclass composition in cic was analyzed . the subclasses in cic were predominantly igg1 and igg3 . because the antibody responses to different antigens exhibit igg subclass restriction , it would suggest that the change of serum and cic igg subclasses in kawasaki syndrome may have relevance to the pathogenesis of the disease . 
antigenic recognition by intravenous gamma-globulin of selected bacteria isolated from throats of patients with kawasaki syndrome . kawasaki syndrome ( ks ) or mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome is an acute febrile exanthematous illness of unknown etiology . therapy with intravenous gamma-globulin ( ivgg ) results in rapid defervescence , disappearance of signs and symptoms of inflammation and prevention of coronary artery aneurysms . we hypothesized that ivgg might neutralize a bacterial toxin produced by a staphylococcus or streptococcus present in the nasopharynx . we further speculated that this toxin might be detectable in serum or urine of patients . the goal of this work was to identify microbial antigens in different materials taken from patients with a clinical diagnosis of ks . we tested 23 aerobic bacterial isolates from throat cultures from 15 patients with ks , acute serum from 121 patients and 38 acute urine specimens from patients with ks . the patients ranged in age from 1 to 6 years . specimens were tested in a standard system of counterimmunoelectrophoresis and reacted against ivgg prepared in a 25 % solution . ten of 23 aerobic bacteria ( 43.5 % ) isolated from throat cultures demonstrated a precipitation reaction with ivgg . counterimmunoelectrophoresis testing of ivgg against acute serum and acute urine specimens was uniformly negative . ivgg contains precipitating antibody against a limited number of aerobic throat organisms . it is possible that antigenic products of one of these bacteria may be involved in the pathogenesis of ks . 
peripheral vascular disorders . assessment and intervention . peripheral vascular diseases are being seen with increased frequency in the health care setting today . it is imperative that nurses have a clear understanding of arterial , venous , and lymphatic circulatory mechanisms as well as the pathophysiologic changes that accompany common diseases of these systems . providing the ongoing assessment to obtain a diagnosis , establish the acute versus chronic nature of findings , monitor progression , plan care , and assess the response to treatment is an important role for the nurse in order to preserve function , life , and limb in these patients . 
when a patient with a bleeding disorder needs dental work . how you can work with the dentist to prevent a crisis patients with bleeding disorders need close cooperation between their physician and their dental practitioner to receive safe , comprehensive dental care . when indicated , physicians must advise a compromised treatment plan to avoid deep injections or surgical procedures that may initiate a bleeding crisis in patients at risk . the conditions most commonly seen that require special consideration are long-term use of antithrombotic agents , platelet dysfunction caused by chronic renal failure , and congenital clotting factor deficiencies . even these patients may undergo a high-risk procedure , such as periodontal surgery , with adequate precautions and preparation . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome linked to tryptophan . eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome has been linked to ingestion of tryptophan , but the exact cause of this recently recognized syndrome is unclear . as in other reported cases , the disease in the patient described here developed while she was taking tryptophan . although eosinophilia resolved following glucocorticoid therapy , the disease in this patient continues to progress . 
hypomutability in fanconi anemia cells is associated with increased deletion frequency at the hprt locus . fanconi anemia ( fa ) is an inherited human disorder associated with a predisposition to cancer and characterized by anomalies in the processing of dna cross-links and certain monoadducts . we reported previously that the frequency of psoralen-photoinduced mutations at the hprt locus is lower in fa cells than in normal cells . this hypomutability is shown here to be associated with an increased frequency of deletions in the hprt gene when either a mixture of cross-links and monoadducts or monoadducts alone are induced . molecular analysis of mutants in the hprt gene was carried out . in normal cells the majority of spontaneous and induced mutants are point mutations whereas in fa deletion mutations predominate . in that case a majority of mutants were found to lack individual exons or small clusters of exons whereas in normal cells large ( complete or major gene loss ) and small deletions are almost equally represented . thus we propose that the fa defect lies in a mutagenic pathway that , in normal cells , involves bypassing lesions and subsequent gap filling by a recombinational process during replication . 
hypodense eosinophils and interleukin 5 activity in the blood of patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the recent recognition of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan prompted an analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophil phenotypes and of the serum eosinophil hematopoietins in this disorder . five patients with an illness characterized by the abrupt onset of aching skeletal muscles , edema , thickening and induration of the skin , and marked blood eosinophilia associated with l-tryptophan ingestion provided eosinophils , serum , or both , for evaluation . gradient sedimentation density analysis of the peripheral blood eosinophils from four of these patients revealed that 43 + / - 13 % ( mean + / - sem ) of the cells had converted to the abnormal ( hypodense ) sedimenting phenotype . when normodense eosinophils from the reference donors were cultured for 3 days in medium supplemented with increasing concentrations of serum from the patients with ems , their viability increased in a dose-dependent manner to 45 % , which was significantly augmented over the effect of normal serum . this eosinophil viability-sustaining activity was inhibited by 76 + / - 7 % ( mean + / - sem ; n = 3 ) by the addition of anti-interleukin 5 ( il-5 ) but not by neutralizing antibodies monospecific for either granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) or il-3 . il-5 , an eosinophilopoietic factor , converts normodense peripheral blood eosinophils in vitro to a hypodense sedimenting form with extended viability and augmented biologic responses to activating stimuli . thus , the presence of il-5 in the sera of patients with ems may contribute to the development and maintenance of the eosinophilia and may regulate the conversion of the peripheral blood eosinophils to the hypodense phenotype with augmented pathobiologic potential . 
in vitro colony culture and chromosomal studies in hepatic and portal vein thrombosis -- possible evidence of an occult myeloproliferative state . we have studied the prevalence of an underlying myeloproliferative state in 20 patients with either hepatic or portal vein thrombosis . using conventional clinical and laboratory criteria , an underlying myeloproliferative state was identified as the cause of the thrombosis in five patients ( 25 % ) . a further 10 of the remaining 15 cases were found to have characteristic in vitro bone marrow culture studies and cytogenetic abnormalities suggestive of an underlying myeloproliferative disorder . although none of these 10 cases have developed overt clinical and laboratory features of such a myeloproliferative disorder after a median observation period of two years , the presence of clonal karyotypic abnormalities in three cases , increased megakaryocyte colony growth in three cases and endogenous erythropoietin independent colony growth of the marrow erythroid progenitors in seven cases , argues strongly in favour of a primary haematological disorder . this has important therapeutic implications , particularly in cases being considered for orthotopic liver transplantation . 
management of the hematologic complications of human immunodeficiency virus infection . replication of various strains of human immunodeficiency virus can be increased in vitro by certain colony-stimulating factors ( csfs ) , but the protective effect of zidovudine ( azt ) on macrophages is not antagonized in the presence of those factors -- specifically , in the presence of granulocyte-macrophage csf ( gm-csf ) . in clinical studies , gm-csf given alone dramatically increased counts of white cells , particularly neutrophils and band cells . very small doses of gm-csf , self-administered subcutaneously , restored white cell production in leukopenic patients with aids . combination treatment with azt and gm-csf in azt-intolerant patients allowed resumption of azt treatment and increased bone marrow cellularity . treatment of anemic patients who have aids or aids-related complex with recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) produced promising results . after 12 weeks of treatment with r-huepo , the need for transfusions to maintain hematocrit values within the normal range was reduced significantly or eliminated in patients with low baseline levels of endogenous erythropoietin . studies combining aids chemotherapy with csf or erythropoietin treatment are proposed . 
cytomegalovirus infections in bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infections were studied in 785 bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy . cmv excretion occurred in 24 % , viremia in 9 % , seroconversion in 40 % , and overall active infection in 47 % . cmv disease was much less common . retinitis , enteritis , and pneumonitis occurred in only one , five ( less than 1 % ) , and 55 ( 7 % ) of the patients , respectively . allograft recipients were more likely to develop cmv disease than were autograft patients ( p = .0001 ) despite comparable rates of active cmv infection . cmv disease was rare after primary infection in both autograft and allograft recipients ( 0 and 1 % , respectively ) . in contrast , cmv disease occurred in 16 % of seropositive allograft recipients . among allograft recipients , risk factors for cmv pneumonitis were seropositivity , age greater than 10 years , and acute graft-vs . - host disease , while the use of cyclosporine as prophylaxis against graft-vs . - host disease was protective . although active infection rates did not decrease , the rates of cmv pneumonitis in allograft recipients during successive years declined significantly ( p less than .001 ) . 
synchronous hodgkin 's disease and myelofibrosis terminating with granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia . our patient had stage iiiai hodgkin 's disease with synchronous myelofibrosis and myeloid metaplasia . a slowly progressive myeloproliferative disease developed over 9 1/2 years and terminated in a painful osteolytic bone disease , spinal extradural granulocytic sarcoma and acute megakaryocytic leukemia . it is likely that this was a result of the myeloproliferative disease rather than a late complication from combination chemotherapy . our case demonstrates the importance of a curative approach to hodgkin 's disease even in the face of a coexistent disease with a long or unknown natural history . 
cytophagic histiocytic panniculitis evolving into total lipodystrophy . a 15-year-old boy had persistent fever with severe neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , coagulation disorder , and marked elevation of lactate dehydrogenase values . a diagnosis of cytophagic histiocytic panniculitis was made after repeated skin biopsies . three years after onset , he gradually lost 20 kg in body weight , and both skin and bone marrow specimens revealed degenerative changes of fatty tissue without any inflammatory cells . these findings suggest that total lipodystrophy syndrome results from the inflammatory destructive process of adipose tissue . to our knowledge , our report is the first to show , in a series of histologic studies , that an inflammatory destructive process may be involved in some cases of total lipodystrophy syndrome . 
isolated erythroid hypoplasia and renal insufficiency induced by long-term griseofulvin therapy . we describe a patient with hematuria , pyuria , eosinophiluria , decreased renal function , and severe anemia that developed while she was receiving chronic therapy with griseofulvin for onychomycosis . we offer evidence that griseofulvin can cause an isolated erythroid hypoplasia and possibly an allergic interstitial nephritis . this is the first documented case of the above entities induced by the agent . we would recommend , based on our report , that otherwise healthy patients , when maintained on the drug for extended periods of time , have periodic determinations of renal function and hematologic status . as drug-induced erythroid hypoplasia typically occurs after a relatively long period of dosing , it may be prudent in certain individuals to monitor the cbc at approximately bimonthly intervals after initiation of therapy . recommendations regarding monitoring of renal function are more difficult , as acute allergic interstitial nephritis can occur after either short - or long-term exposure to certain drugs . 
the role of gastric resection in the management of multicentric argyrophil gastric carcinoids . a patient with pernicious anemia , atrophic non-antral gastritis , hypergastrinemia , and widespread hyperplasia of enterochromaffin-like cells and manifest enterochromaffin-like cell carcinoma was followed up during 39 months , including 15 months after gastric resection . in this case normalization of gastrin levels did not prevent the development of multiple gastric carcinoids in the fundic mucosa , suggesting that factors other than gastrin are of importance in the pathogenesis . 
high ethanol consumption as risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage in young and middle-aged people . we examined the prevalence of high ethanol intake , hypertension , and other risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage in a case-control study of 24 young and middle-aged patients with intracerebral hemorrhage . we recorded ethanol consumption , history of hypertension , liver disease , cigarette smoking , and mild or severe coagulation disorder in each case of intracerebral hemorrhage and in 48 control patients matched by sex and age . in univariate matched analyses , the frequencies of high ethanol intake ( p = 0.009 ) , hypertension ( p = 0.05 ) , and coagulation disorder ( p = 0.05 ) were higher in the cases than in the controls . after controlling for possible confounding factors , we found that high ethanol intake and hypertension were the only independent risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage ( p = 0.02 and p = 0.05 , respectively ) . the hemorrhagic lesion found in cases with a high ethanol intake tended to be located in the cerebral lobes ( p = 0.01 ) , contrasting with the typical basal ganglia location of hypertensive hematomas ( p = 0.009 ) . we conclude that chronic , high ethanol intake should be considered as an important risk factor for lobar hematomas in young and middle-aged people . 
viral infections in transfusion-dependent patients with beta-thalassemia major : the predominant role of cytomegalovirus . for 9 months , 38 transfusion-dependent patients with beta-thalassemia , ranging in age from 3.4 to 19.1 years , were observed for serologic evidence of viral infections , by the collection of serial serum samples . seventy-six age-matched healthy subjects , two for each patient , were followed as controls . samples taken at the beginning , middle , and end of the study were tested against 18 viral antigens by complement fixation ( cf ) . in addition , tests for antibodies to hiv , epstein-barr virus , hepatitis a virus , and markers for hepatitis b virus were performed . when changes in the antibody titer on cf tests ( greater than or equal to 2-fold increase or decrease ) or persistently high titers ( greater than or equal to 64 ) were revealed , specific enzyme immunoassays ( eias ) for igm and iga antibodies were performed concomitant with cf tests in all sera . when symptomatic infections occurred , viral cultures and/or direct detection of antigens were carried out by immunofluorescence methods , eia , or latex agglutination tests . thalassemic patients and controls had similar ( p greater than 0.05 ) overall rates of serologically confirmed viral infections ( 53 versus 132 ) , but the former group had a higher ( p less than 0.01 ) incidence of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infections ( 9 versus 4 ) . cmv infections were associated in the thalassemic patients with hepatitis ( 2 cases ) , lymphadenitis ( 2 cases ) , and upper respiratory tract infection ( 1 case ) , while the remaining cases of cmv had a subclinical course . moreover , the thalassemic patients had a lower ( p less than 0.01 ) incidence of symptomatic infections ( 27 versus 110 ) than controls . therefore , this study showed that both symptomatic and subclinical cmv infections may occur often in thalassemic patients , who otherwise have subclinical viral infections at an overall rate similar to that in healthy subjects . 
evaluation of the manual hexadimethrine bromide ( polybrene ) technique in the investigation of autoimmune hemolytic anemia . the use of the direct manual hexadimethrine bromide ( polybrene ) test ( dpt ) in the investigation of patients for autoimmune hemolytic anemia ( aiha ) was evaluated . seventy-nine blood samples from 68 patients were tested . a direct antiglobulin test ( dat ) using monospecific reagents and the dpt were performed , and a concentrated ether eluate was tested . the dat was positive in 62 ( 78 % ) of 79 patients and negative in 17 ( 22 % ) . there is a good correlation among dat , eluate , and dpt in demonstrating the presence of immunoglobulin on the red cell surface . in contrast , the dpt does not detect c3d and is often negative in cases of aiha in which c3d alone is demonstrated by the dat . in dat-negative cases , dpt results correlated with reactive eluates . however , in four cases of steroid-responsive , dat-negative hemolytic anemia , the dpt supported the diagnosis of aiha when the eluate did not react . the dpt is a useful additional screening test for the investigation of aiha , but it is not recommended as a replacement for either eluate testing or the dat . 
life-threatening , antiglobulin test-negative , acute autoimmune hemolytic anemia due to a non-complement-activating igg1 kappa cold antibody with pra specificity . a 21-year-old man with fulminant cold autoantibody hemolytic anemia ( caha ) was hospitalized with hemoglobinemia , hemoglobinuria , hemoglobin concentration of 3.3 gm per dl , a negative direct antiglobulin test ( dat ) with polyspecific and anti-c3d reagents , a negative donath-landsteiner test , and a cold agglutinin titer of 80 . he failed to respond to corticosteroids , multiple plasma exchanges , and cyclophosphamide ; he required 54 transfusions in 10 days to maintain a hemoglobin concentration of 6.0 to 10.0 g per dl . he improved dramatically after a splenectomy was performed . the wide-thermal-amplitude cold agglutinin proved to be an igg1 kappa antibody with pra specificity . the patient 's serum exhibited normal complement activation . when the dat was carried out at 0 to 4 degrees c , the result was strongly positive for igg ; the indirect antiglobulin test at 0 to 4 degrees c was positive with the patient 's serum diluted 1 in 640 . within 6 months , he was in complete remission and receiving no therapy . as compared with eight patients with caha that was exclusively igg-mediated , this patient is remarkable for his requirement for many transfusions and for dats that were consistently negative for c3d . 
impaired thermoregulation and thyroid function in iron-deficiency anemia . ten women with iron-deficiency anemia , 8 with depleted iron stores ( nonanemic ) , and 12 control women , all of similar body fatness , were exposed to a 28 degrees c water bath to test the hypothesis that iron-deficiency anemia impairs thermoregulatory performance . the anemic women had lower rectal temperatures than did control women ( 36.0 + / - 0.2 vs 36.2 + / - 0.1 degree c , respectively , p = 0.001 ) and a lower rate of oxygen consumption ( 5.28 + / - 0.26 vs 5.99 + / - 0.29 ml.min-1 . kg body wt-1 , respectively , p = 0.04 ) at 100 min of cold exposure . plasma thyroxine and triiodothyronine concentrations were significantly ( p less than 0.002 ) lower in anemic than in control women at baseline and during cold exposure . responses of iron-depleted subjects were similar to those of control subjects . iron supplementation corrected the anemia , significantly ( p = 0.03 ) improved rectal temperature at 100 min , and partially normalized plasma thyroid hormone concentrations . plasma catecholamines were unaffected by iron status . this experiment demonstrates a functional consequence of iron-deficiency anemia in the balance of heat production and loss and suggests that thyroid-hormone metabolism may be responsible . 
histiocytosis x. s-100 protein , peanut agglutinin , and transmission electron microscopy study . twenty-seven cases of histiocytosis x ( hx ) for which paraffin blocks were available were studied with the use of s-100 protein immunohistochemistry , peanut agglutinin affinity histochemistry , and transmission electron microscopy . the results show that these techniques did enable identification of langerhans ' - type histiocytes in 88.5 % , 75 % , and 47.4 % of cases , respectively . all techniques were proved to be of some diagnostic value for hx , but none was able to confirm the diagnosis in all instances and none could foretell the prognosis of the patients . this study shows that besides the langerhans ' cells , the indeterminate cells of the skin and the interdigitating dendritic reticulum cells of the lymph node may also be involved in this process . moreover , some multinucleate giant cells and foamy cells may be derived from langerhans ' and related cells . 
total and differential leukocyte counts in clinically well children . information or misinformation ? to determine whether the total and differential leukocyte count is of value as a case-finding test , we applied the evaluation criteria developed by the us preventive services task force . the criteria comprise review of the current burden of suffering of the disease to be prevented , the attributes of the intervention to be used , and the quality of the evidence available . a literature search revealed no evidence in the form of data from patients , so a chart review of all complete blood cell counts ordered during a 1-year period by one group of pediatricians was undertaken . at least one value outside of published normal ranges was found on 74.7 % of the tests performed on clinically well children . no unsuspected illness was discovered as a result of an abnormal total and differential leukocyte count . 
lead poisoning and thalassemia trait or iron deficiency . the value of the red blood cell distribution width . the cause of microcytosis and anemia in lead poisoning was investigated using red blood cell distribution width as a screening parameter in 21 consecutive patients with lead poisoning and seven nonrandomly selected patients with iron deficiency and lead poisoning . of the 21 consecutive patients , 11 had microcytosis as defined by a mean corpuscular volume of less than 72 fl , nine had thalassemia trait ( alpha or beta ) , one had both alpha thalassemia trait and iron deficiency , and one had iron deficiency . the red blood cell distribution width was less than 17.0 in those with thalassemia trait and greater than 17.0 in the iron-deficient subjects . results of our study suggest that microcytosis in children with lead poisoning is due to coexistent iron deficiency or thalassemia trait . the red blood cell distribution width may be of value in the rapid assessment of the cause of microcytosis in children with lead poisoning . 
extramedullary hematopoiesis involving the esophagus in myelofibrosis . in this report , we describe a case of myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia ; a 53-yr-old man was splenectomized for a massively enlarged spleen in which multiple foci of myeloid metaplasia were histologically demonstrated . the patient was referred to us for endoscopic examination , following the repeated occurrence of melena . upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed two active ulcerative lesions in the bulb , and only a moderate erythema in the lower third of the esophagus , which showed no varices . there was no endoscopic evidence of active or recent bleeding . subsequent histologic examination of biopsies taken from the esophageal lesion surprisingly revealed the presence of hematopoietic tissue . 
diffuse hemangiomatosis of the spleen : splenic hemangiomatosis presenting with giant splenomegaly , anemia , and thrombocytopenia . in an elderly patient with oligosymptomatic giant splenomegaly , clinical and laboratory data were nondiagnostic , while nonhomogeneous splenic enlargement was the only finding detected by imaging procedures . splenectomy was performed and diffuse hemangiomatosis of predominantly capillary-type found . the failure of imaging techniques to even hint at the nature of the underlying disorder is comprehensible in view of the organ being essentially replaced in toto by the abnormal vascular channels . diffuse splenic hemangiomatosis , a rare condition , may cause hypersplenism , and its diagnosis may be elusive because of misleading patterns on imaging . 
body fluid spaces and blood pressure in hemodialysis patients during amelioration of anemia with erythropoietin . blood pressure ( bp ) may increase in hemodialysis patients during treatment of anemia with recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) . since fluid volume is a determinant of bp in dialysis patients , changes in body fluid spaces during r-huepo therapy could affect bp . thus , 51cr-labeled red blood cell ( rbc ) volume , inulin extracellular fluid ( ecf ) volume , and urea total body water ( tbw ) , as well as cardiac output , plasma renin activity ( pra ) , and plasma aldosterone concentration were determined postdialysis before and after r-huepo therapy in patients in whom changes in bp could be managed by ultrafiltration alone . eleven patients entered the study : one had a renal transplant and two required addition of antihypertensive drug therapy and were excluded ; eight , of whom two required antihypertensive drug therapy following the study , were included in the analyses . results revealed an increase in predialysis hemoglobin from 67 to 113 g/l ( 6.7 to 11.3 g/dl ) ( p = 0.001 ) during 18 + / - 6 weeks of therapy . predialysis diastolic bp increased from 80 to 85 mm hg ( p = 0.07 ) , while postdialysis diastolic bp was unchanged at 73 mm hg . 51cr-rbc volume increased , from 0.7 to 1.3 l ( p = 0.004 ) . ecf tended to decrease , from 13.7 to 10.8 l ( p = 0.064 ) , while tbw decreased to a similar extent , but not significantly , 34.3 to 31.2 l ( p = 0.16 ) . postdialysis ecf volume was positively correlated with mean arterial bp at baseline ( r = 0.89 , p = 0.007 ) and after therapy ( r = 0.74 , p = 0.035 ) . however , the regression lines for this relationship were different ( p = 0.022 ) before and after therapy . 
bioavailability of iron in hemodialysis patients treated with erythropoietin : evidence for the inhibitory role of aluminum . the dose of recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) required to correct the anemia of end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) varies among patients . the response to r-huepo is impaired if absolute or relative iron deficiency exists . aluminum may cause a microcytic anemia in patients with esrd , but the mechanism remains incompletely defined . twenty-two patients in the canadian multicentre epo trial were studied for 6 months . in this randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial , free erythrocyte protoporphyrin ( fep ) was used as an indicator of iron-deficient deficient erythropoiesis . the relationship of fep to the estimates of iron availability ( serum iron , transferrin saturation , ferritin ) and iron utilization ( corrected reticulocyte count , hemoglobin ) was evaluated by multiple linear regression analysis . the effect of aluminum on fep was evaluated by adjusting the statistical model for this variable . all patients were iron replete as assessed by serum ferritin . fep was not related to serum aluminum before administration of r-huepo , but it was significantly correlated with aluminum in the treated group . in hemodialysis patients treated with r-huepo , the proportion of the variability explained by the parameters of iron utilization and iron availability was 0.27 . the effect of aluminum increased this to 0.59 . in hemodialysis patients not receiving r-huepo , the proportion of variability in fep explained by the model increased from 0.16 to 0.28 by adjusting for aluminum . the data support the hypothesis that aluminum interferes with the bioavailability of stored iron for erythropoiesis and thus may result in a microcytic anemia in patients with esrd or may blunt their response to r-huepo therapy . 
the role of aluminum in the functional iron deficiency of patients treated with erythropoietin : case report of clinical characteristics and response to treatment . the quantitative variation among patients in their response to erythropoietin can be explained , in part , by factors that can independently cause anemia in patients with end-stage renal disease . aluminum can blunt the effect of erythropoietin , in part by interfering with iron bioavailability . this inhibitory effect can not be completely overcome by aggressive ferrotherapy , but can be reversed with aluminum chelation therapy . a patient is described who developed hematological evidence of aluminum excess after being treated with erythropoietin . the biochemical evidence of functional iron deficiency and the response to aluminum chelation therapy support the hypothesis that the inhibitory effect of aluminum on erythropoiesis is mediated by the interference of aluminum with the bioavailability of iron . 
disseminated intravascular coagulation due to intravenous administration of hetastarch . disseminated intravascular coagulation occurred in a patient after intravenous administration of hetastarch . the onset was acute within 3 hours after exposure to the agent and the course was fulminating . the patient died in 48 hours . clinical , hematologic , and pathologic features are presented and possible pathophysiologic mechanism is discussed . in view of this experience and documented effects of hetastarch on coagulation , the use of hetastarch should be avoided if the patient has a history of coagulation disorder , and the patient receiving the agent should be closely monitored with appropriate coagulation tests . 
prenatal diagnosis of laryngeal atresia . in a patient in whom preeclampsia developed at 23 weeks ' gestation , ultrasonographic examination of the fetus showed enlarged edematous lungs , a compressed fetal heart , severe ascites , fetal hydrops , and placental edema . autopsy of the hydropic stillborn infant showed laryngeal atresia . the ultrasonographic appearance of this rare malformation is presented . 
twin-twin transfusion syndrome . twin-twin transfusion syndrome associated with acute polyhydramnios in one sac and severe oligohydramnios in the other , which characteristically is diagnosed between 18 and 28 weeks , is associated with a high mortality rate for the involved twins . patients who are managed without intervention have essentially 100 % perinatal mortality . nineteen patients with this diagnosis were treated at good samaritan medical center over a 5-year period . because of the known perinatal mortality and because of early experiences with the twin-twin transfusion syndrome , we began to actively intervene in such patients with various modes of therapy . as experience was gained , it was found that repeated therapeutic amniocenteses , if performed before severe maternal abdominal distention or labor , appears to be beneficial . 
cytokine production ( il-1 alpha , il-1 beta , and tnf alpha ) and endothelial cell activation ( elam-1 and hla-dr ) in reactive lymphadenitis , hodgkin 's disease , and in non-hodgkin 's lymphomas . an immunocytochemical study . cryostat sections of 58 lymph nodes were immunostained with a polyclonal rabbit serum against il-1 alpha , and with monoclonal antibodies directed to il-1 alpha ( vmp18 ) , il-1 beta ( vhp20 and brhc3 ) , and tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) ( b154 .7 ) . furthermore the presence of cytokine-containing cells was correlated with the expression of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule ( elam-1 ; 29f2 ) and of human leukocyte antigen ( hla-dr ) ( okia-1 ) by endothelial cells . cells containing il-1 and/or tnf alpha were detected mainly in pathologic conditions characterized by reactive or neoplastic expansion of the lymph node paracortex . cells positive for il-1 were detected in 16 of 21 cases of hodgkin 's disease , in 4 of 4 cases of t-nhl , and in 5 cases of diffuse or mixed lymphadenitis . interleukin-1 alpha was detected in macrophages , interdigitating reticulum cells ( idrcs ) , endothelial cells , and neoplastic hodgkin 's and reed-sternberg ( h-rs ) cells . cells positive for il-1 beta were much fewer and consisted mainly of macrophages . hodgkin 's reed-sternberg cells were negative for il-1 beta even after in vitro stimulation with bacterial endotoxin . tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) was present in macrophages and h-rs cells . endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 expression by endothelial venules was detected in 17 of 20 cases of hodgkin 's disease , in 2 of 4 cases of t-nhl , and in 5 of 5 cases of diffuse lymphadenitis . in these pathologic conditions , hla-dr antigens also were expressed frequently by endothelial cells . cytokine-containing cells and elam-1-positive high endothelial venules ( hev ) were extremely rare in lymph nodes involved by follicular lymphadenitis ( 12 cases ) or b-nhl ( 16 cases ) . in cases of reactive or neoplastic b-cell proliferations , hla-dr-positive hevs still were present often . our results indicate that il-1 / tnf alpha production at tissue level is often associated with elam-1 expression by hevs , but is less well correlated with expression of hla-dr antigens by endothelial cells . 
hypothermia and acidosis worsen coagulopathy in the patient requiring massive transfusion . massive transfusion may cause abnormalities of electrolytes , clotting factors , ph , and temperature and may occur in a scenario of refractory coagulopathy and irreversible shock . identification of correctable variables to improve survival is complicated by the interplay of this pathophysiology . temperature may be an under-appreciated problem in the genesis of coagulopathy . in vitro studies have demonstrated that platelet function and vascular response are critically temperature-dependent . we reviewed the records of 45 trauma patients without head injury or co-morbid medical illness who required massive transfusions . the mean injury severity score was 55 + / - 6 , a mean of 22.5 + / - 5 units of blood was transfused , and mortality was 33 % . nonsurvivors were more likely to have had penetrating injury ( 88 % versus 55 % ) , received more transfusions ( 26.5 + / - 9 versus 18.6 + / - 1 , p less than 0.05 ) , had lower ph ( ph 7.04 + / - 0.06 versus 7.18 + / - 0.02 , p less than 0.05 ) , had lower core temperature ( 31 + / - 1 degree c versus 34 + / - 1 degree c , p less than 0.01 ) , and had a higher incidence of clinical coagulopathy ( 73 % versus 23 % ) . severe hypothermia ( temperature less than 34 degrees c ) occurred in 80 % of the nonsurvivors and in 36 % of survivors . patients who were hypothermic and acidotic developed clinically significant bleeding despite adequate blood , plasma , and platelet replacement . avoidance or correction of hypothermia may be critical in preventing or correcting coagulopathy in the patient receiving massive transfusion . 
pulmonary histiocytosis x with mediastinal lymph node involvement . in this report , we describe a patient with the classic histology of pulmonary histiocytosis x , who had bilateral reticulonodular densities and mediastinal lymph node involvement . the diagnosis was confirmed by the use of electron microscopy and immunohistochemical markers ( ps100 , hla-dr , and cd1 ) , which allowed us to recognize the lymph node infiltration of x histiocytes . an association of mediastinal lymph node enlargement with pulmonary histiocytosis x has been reported but it has never been histologically documented . 
myasthenic thymus and thymoma are selectively enriched in acetylcholine receptor-reactive t cells . we compared t-cell proliferative responses to acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) and to purified protein derivative ( ppd ) ( of tuberculin ) of hyperplastic thymus , thymoma , and blood cells from patients with myasthenia gravis ( mg ) . hyperplastic mg thymus cells gave significantly higher and more consistent responses to achr than parallel cultures of autologous blood cells , whereas responses to ppd showed an opposite trend . thus there was a preferential localization of achr-reactive t cells in the hyperplastic mg thymus . furthermore , there was a strong correlation between blood and thymus cell responses to ppd ( but not to achr ) , arguing that the hyperplastic mg thymus contains a sample of sensitized peripheral t cells . by contrast , both achr - and ppd-responsive t cells were almost undetectable in thymus from nonmyasthenic patients , which is evidently much less receptive to circulating t cells . cells from mg thymomas showed the highest stimulations by achr but did not consistently react to ppd . however , the uninvolved thymus adjacent to these thymomas behaved almost identically to the hyperplastic samples described above . our interpretation is that achr-specific t cells are initially sensitized in the mg thymoma but are selectively trapped in the hyperplastic thymus after being primed elsewhere . 
malignant thymoma presenting as intracardiac tumor and superior vena caval obstruction . a case of malignant thymoma with intracardiac infiltration and intrinsic superior vena caval obstruction due to the tumor is reported . intracardiac invasion by a thymoma is rare and for this reason is believed worthy of a report . 
job 's syndrome : a rare cause of recurrent lung abscess in childhood . a clinical syndrome characterized by recurrent staphylococcal infection of the skin and respiratory tract from birth was described in 1966 and referred to as job 's syndrome . marked hyperimmunoglobulinemia e was later found to be associated with this syndrome . this article describes a case of job 's syndrome as a cause of recurrent lung abscess during childhood necessitating lung resection . 
empiric treatment of fungal infections in the neutropenic host . review of the literature and guidelines for use . persistent fever that is refractory to broad-spectrum antibacterials is common in neutropenic patients undergoing induction chemotherapy of acute leukemia . clinical experience suggests that many of these patients are infected with fungi . until recently , data supporting the role of empiric antifungal therapy in this setting were limited to small groups of patients or postmortem reports . evolving evidence in larger patient populations supports data from smaller series : febrile neutropenic patients who have failed to respond to a 4 - to 7-day course of broad-spectrum antibacterials may benefit from the early initiation of antifungal therapy . patients with fungal colonization or pulmonary infiltrates and adult patients who have not received previous fungal prophylaxis may especially benefit from the early use of antifungal drugs . amphotericin b has been the " gold standard " for empiric antifungal therapy , although the newer azoles may be useful in certain situations . 
lindane ( kwell ) - induced aplastic anemia . numerous toxic exposures have been implicated in causing aplastic anemia . thirteen cases of aplastic anemia and 5 cases of other blood dyscrasias , eg , red blood cell aplasia and thrombocytopenia , associated with lindane , have been reported in the literature . however , aplastic anemia secondary to the scabicidal product ( lindane [ kwell ] ) has not been documented , to our knowledge . we present the case of a 21-year-old man with a diagnosis of aplastic anemia , known prolonged exposure to lindane , and documented elevated serum lindane levels . his clinical course is described as well as various defects are explored for the aplasia . 
lovastatin . warfarin interaction . two patients who developed hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding due to lovastatin-warfarin drug interaction are described . because of the wider use of lovastatin and warfarin , heightened clinical awareness of this potentially serious interaction must be publicized . therefore , prothrombin time should be monitored diligently when warfarin is prescribed to patients receiving lovastatin . 
maternal genomic neutrophil fcriii deficiency leading to neonatal isoimmune neutropenia . the healthy mother of a child with transient immune neutropenia was found to be " na-null . " the mother 's neutrophils did not react with anti-na1 and anti-na2 antibodies ( polyclonal human alloantibodies and mouse monoclonal antibodies ) . a healthy donor was discovered during routine neutrophil antigen typing whose neutrophils were also " na-null . " this na-phenotype was due to the absence of fcriii ( cd16 antigen ) on neutrophils as demonstrated with anti-fcriii monoclonal antibodies . the neutrophils of these two individuals were not able to bind dimeric immunoglobulin g. however , their cells had a normal expression of other phosphatidylinositol ( pi ) - linked membrane glycoprotein ( cd24 , cd67 , and clb gran/5 antigens ) , ruling out the existence of a pi-linkage defect , such as paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria . the mother ( propsitus ) had isoantibodies in her blood against neutrophil-fcriii without allospecificity , apparently produced during pregnancy and responsible for the neutropenia of her child . the expression of fcriii on natural killer lymphocytes of both individuals was normal . fcriii is encoded by two separate genes , one ( fcriii-1 ) for the neutrophil-pi-linked receptor , another ( fcriii-2 ) for the natural killer cell and macrophage-transmembrane receptor . by messenger rna and dna analysis ( with an fcriii-cdna probe and restriction endonucleases ) the neutrophil-fcriii deficiency appeared to be due to deletion of the fcriii-1 gene in both individuals , while the fcriii-2 gene was normally present . the parents of the propositus were found to be heterozygous for this defect . thus , fcriii-1 gene deficiency of the mother may be a cause of ( iso ) immune neutropenia of the newborn . whether this deficiency may have other clinical consequences has to be studied . 
parvovirus b19-induced perturbation of human megakaryocytopoiesis in vitro . parvovirus b19 infection leads to transient aplastic crises in individuals with chronic hemolytic anemias or immunodeficiency states . an additional unexplained sequela of b19 infection is thrombocytopenia . because b19 is known to have a remarkable tropism for human erythropoietic elements , and is not known to replicate in nonerythroid cells , the etiology of this thrombocytopenia is uncertain . we sought to define the pathobiology of b19-associated thrombocytopenia by examining the role of b19 on in vitro megakaryocytopoiesis . b19 infection of normal human bone marrow cells significantly suppressed megakaryocyte ( mk ) colony formation compared with mock-infected cells . no such inhibition was observed with a nonpathogenic human parvovirus , the adeno-associated virus 2 ( aav ) . the b19-mk cell interaction was also studied at the molecular level . whereas low-density bone marrow cells containing erythroid precursor cells supported b19 dna replication , no viral dna replication was observed in b19-infected mk-enriched fractions as determined by the presence of viral dna replicative intermediates on southern blots . however , analysis of total cytoplasmic rna isolated from b19-infected mk fractions showed a low-level expression of the b19 genome as detected by quantitative rna dot blots as well as by northern analysis . furthermore , a frame-shift mutation in a recombinant aav-b19 hybrid genome segment that encodes the viral nonstructural ( ns1 ) protein significantly reduced the observed inhibition of mk colony formation . these studies indicate tissue-tropism of b19 beyond the erythroid progenitor cell , and lend support to the hypothesis that b19 genome expression may be toxic to cell populations that are nonpermissive for viral dna replication . 
analysis of platelet aggregation disorders based on flow cytometric analysis of membrane glycoprotein iib-iiia with conformation-specific monoclonal antibodies . normal primary platelet aggregation requires agonist-mediated activation of membrane gpiib-iiia , binding of fibrinogen to gpiib-iiia , and cellular events after ligand binding . pac1 monoclonal antibody distinguishes between resting and activated states of gpiib-iiia , and other antibodies preferentially recognize gpiib ( pmi-1 ) or iiia ( anti-libs1 ) after the binding of fibrinogen or fibrinogen-mimetic peptides , such as grgdsp . using these antibodies and platelet flow cytometry , we studied two distinct persistent platelet aggregation abnormalities . platelets from a thrombasthenic variant , which contained near-normal amounts of gpiib-iiia , failed to aggregate or bind pac1 in response to agonists . in addition , grgdsp , which binds to normal gpiib-iiia without prior cell activation , failed to increase the binding of pmi-1 or anti-libs1 to the thrombasthenic platelets , suggesting a primary defect in ligand binding . chromatography of detergent-solubilized platelets on a kygrgds affinity column confirmed that the patient 's gpiib-iiia lacked the fibrinogen binding site . in another patient with myelofibrosis and defective aggregation , pac1 failed to bind to adenosine diphosphate-stimulated platelets , but did bind when protein kinase c was directly activated with phorbol myristate acetate . furthermore , the binding of pmi-1 and anti-libs1 increased in response to grgdsp , confirming a defect in agonist-mediated fibrinogen receptor activation rather than in fibrinogen binding or events distal to binding . these studies indicate that this immunochemical approach is useful in classification of clinical abnormalities of platelet aggregation as defects in either ( a ) fibrinogen receptor activation , ( b ) fibrinogen binding , or ( c ) postoccupancy events . 
plasma thrombomodulin in health and diseases . sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by immunoblot analysis of plasma thrombomodulin concentrate revealed that four degraded forms of thrombomodulin with different molecular weights are present in plasma . plasma concentrations of thrombomodulin in patients with various diseases were measured by two methods of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using monoclonal antibodies . one method measures intact thrombomodulin and degraded forms of thrombomodulin ; the other does not detect the two smaller degraded forms of thrombomodulin present in plasma . the results indicated that thrombomodulin was increased in the circulating blood of patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome , pulmonary thromboembolism , adult respiratory distress syndrome , chronic renal failure , or acute hepatic failure . the different values obtained by the two methods indicate that the increase of plasma thrombomodulin found in these patients was mainly due to an increase of the smaller fragments of degraded forms , suggesting that the release of thrombomodulin from endothelial cells was accelerated in various disease states by proteolytic activity generated on the surface of the endothelium and may be removed from the circulation mostly by the kidneys and liver . 
molecular and hematologic characterization of scottish-irish type ( epsilon gamma delta beta ) zero thalassemia . the dna deletion associated with an example of ( epsilon gamma delta beta ) zero thalassemia ( scottish-irish type ) was characterized . the deletion is approximately 205 kb in length and involves the epsilon , g gamma , a gamma , delta , and beta globin genes . the breakpoint is located 263 bp 3 ' to exon 3 of the beta globin gene . an li ( kpni ) repeat element approximately 320 bp in size is found at the 3 ' end of the novel dna sequence . different clinical phenotypes for three heterozygous neonates suggest that the deletion alone does not predict severity of ( epsilon gamma delta beta ) zero thalassemia at this age . 
sickle erythrocytes inhibit human endothelial cell dna synthesis . patients with sickle cell anemia experience severe vascular occlusive phenomena including acute pain crisis and cerebral infarction . obstruction occurs at both the microvascular and the arterial level , and the clinical presentation of vascular events is heterogeneous , suggesting a complex etiology . interaction between sickle erythrocytes and the endothelium may contribute to vascular occlusion due to alteration of endothelial function . to investigate this hypothesis , human vascular endothelial cells were overlaid with sickle or normal erythrocytes and stimulated to synthesize dna . the erythrocytes were sedimented onto replicate monolayers by centrifugation for 10 minutes at 17 g to insure contact with the endothelial cells . incorporation of 3h-thymidine into endothelial cell dna was markedly inhibited during contact with sickle erythrocytes . this inhibitory effect was enhanced more than twofold when autologous sickle plasma was present during endothelial cell labeling . normal erythrocytes , with or without autologous plasma , had a modest effect on endothelial cell dna synthesis . when sickle erythrocytes in autologous sickle plasma were applied to endothelial monolayers for 1 minute , 10 minutes , or 1 hour and then removed , subsequent dna synthesis by the endothelial cells was inhibited by 30 % to 40 % . although adherence of sickle erythrocytes to the endothelial monolayers was observed under these experimental conditions , the effect of sickle erythrocytes on endothelial dna synthesis occurred in the absence of significant adherence . hence , human endothelial cell dna synthesis is partially inhibited by contact with sickle erythrocytes . the inhibitory effect of sickle erythrocytes occurs during a brief ( 1 minute ) contact with the endothelial monolayers , and persists for at least 6 hours of 3h-thymidine labeling . these results indicate that interaction between sickle erythrocytes and the endothelium may result in altered endothelial function . this altered endothelial function may contribute to the development of vascular occlusive phenomena in patients with sickle cell anemia . 
chronic anaemia , hyperbaric oxygen and tumour radiosensitivity . anaemia is an important factor in the response of some human tumours to radiotherapy . the outcome is also influenced by whether the treatment is given in air or high pressure oxygen ( hpo ) . the present study examined the relationship between anaemia and tumour response to radiation given in air or hpo in c3h mice transplanted with a mammary adenocarcinoma using a growth delay assay to assess the radiation response . chronic anaemia was induced by the use of a low iron diet and was characterized by a significant reduction in host haematocrit and whole blood viscosity . in addition , anaemia was associated with a right shift in the oxyhaemoglobin dissociation curve and an increase in the volume doubling time of the tumour ; but there was no change in the concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in the red cells . radiation studies with these anaemic mice demonstrated that the tumour radiosensitivity was decreased when treatment was given in air . hpo was successful in overcoming the increased radioresistance associated with anaemia . this result suggested that tumours grown in anaemic mice have a higher hypoxic fraction than those grown in control mice . changes in host physiology with chronic anaemia may contribute to the benefit seen with hpo but such alterations per se may be inadequate to maintain tumour oxygenation when treatment is given in air . 
pearson 's marrow-pancreas syndrome . a multisystem mitochondrial disorder in infancy . pearson 's marrow-pancreas syndrome ( mckusick no . 26056 ) is a fatal disorder of hitherto unknown etiology involving the hematopoietic system , exocrine pancreas , liver , and kidneys . the observation of high lactate/pyruvate molar ratios in plasma and abnormal oxidative phosphorylation in lymphocytes led us to postulate that pearson 's syndrome belongs to the group of mitochondrial cytopathies . since rearrangements of the mitochondrial genome between direct dna repeats were consistently found in all tissues tested , our results show that this disease is in fact a multisystem mitochondrial disorder , as suggested by the clinical course of the patients . based on these observations , we would suggest giving consideration to the hypothesis of a defect of oxidative phosphorylation in elucidating the origin of other syndromes , especially those associated with an abnormal oxidoreduction status in plasma . 
human neutrophil cytochrome b light chain ( p22-phox ) . gene structure , chromosomal location , and mutations in cytochrome-negative autosomal recessive chronic granulomatous disease . a membrane-bound cytochrome b , a heterodimer formed by a 91-kd glycoprotein ( heavy chain ) and a 22-kd polypeptide ( light chain ) , is an essential component of the phagocyte nadph-oxidase responsible for superoxide generation . cytochrome b is absent in two subgroups of chronic granulomatous disease ( cgd ) , an inherited disorder characterized by the lack of oxidase activity . mutations in the cytochrome heavy chain gene , encoded by the cybb locus in xp21 .1 , result in the x-linked form of cgd . a rare subgroup of autosomal recessive cgd also lacks cytochrome b ( a - cgd ) , but the genetic defect has not previously been identified . in order to search for possible mutations in the cytochrome light chain locus , cyba , the structure of this gene was characterized . the cyba locus was localized to 16q24 , and the approximately 600-bp open reading frame determined to be encoded by six exons that span approximately 8.5 kb . three unrelated patients with a - cgd were studied for evidence of mutations in the light chain gene . one patient , whose parents were first cousins , was homozygous for a large deletion that removed all but the extreme 5 ' coding sequence of the gene . the other two patients had a grossly normal light chain transcript on northern blot of mononuclear cell rna . the light chain transcript was amplified by the polymerase chain reaction and sequenced . one patient was a compound heterozygote for two alleles containing point mutations in the open reading frame that predict a frame shift and a nonconservative amino acid replacement , respectively . the second patient , whose parents were second cousins , was homozygous for a different single-base substitution resulting in another nonconservative amino acid change . these results indicate that a - cgd can results from defects in the gene encoding the 22-kd light chain of the phagocyte cytochrome b. 
l-tryptophan implicated in human eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome causes fasciitis and perimyositis in the lewis rat . tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( l-trp-ems ) is a newly described syndrome which occurred in epidemic fashion in the united states in the summer and fall of 1989 . epidemiologic data has linked the syndrome to intake of l-tryptophan ( l-trp ) from one specific manufacturer , but the precise etiologic compound ( s ) must be established by replication of the syndrome in an appropriate animal model . in this study , implicated l-trp , united states pharmacopeia ( usp ) grade l-trp , or vehicle was administered by gavage in a blinded fashion for 38 d to female lewis rats at doses comparable with those ingested by patients who developed the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . animals receiving implicated l-trp , but not those receiving usp grade l-trp or vehicle , developed histologic signs consistent with fasciitis and perimyositis , specific pathologic features of human l-trp-ems . peripheral blood eosinophilia was not observed . hypothalamic corticotropin releasing hormone mrna levels were lower and plasma corticosterone levels tended to be lower in the animals that received implicated l-trp . plasma l-kynurenine was higher in both l-trp-treated groups compared to the vehicle-treated animals . the female lewis rat is known to be susceptible to a wide variety of inflammatory diseases . identification of specific inflammatory changes in this rat following exposure to implicated l-trp indicates that this animal model will be important in subsequent investigations into the etiology , pathogenesis , and treatment of human l-trp-ems . 
iron : nutrition monitoring and nutrition status assessment . the majority of anemias in the united states are characterized by low mean corpuscular volume and thus are classified as microcytic . iron deficiency , chronic disease and thalassemia traits are the three leading causes of microcytic anemia . the true cause of anemia must always be sought so that the prevalence estimates of iron deficiency are accurate and so that appropriate treatment can be initiated for the anemic individual . in both the clinical setting and in surveys , the most frequent differential diagnosis of microcytic anemia will involve distinguishing between iron deficiency and chronic disease . erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) , zeta-sedimentation rate ( zsr ) , and c-reactive protein ( crp ) are elevated in a variety of diseases . these indicators may help differentiate the anemia of chronic disease from iron deficiency , so that iron deficiency is not overestimated in hospitalized and aged populations . the red cell distribution width ( rdw ) appears to be elevated to a greater extent in iron deficiency than in chronic disease or thalassemia traits . rdw and crp are two of several indicators of iron status in the third national health and examination survey ( nhanes iii ) . 
a new surgical approach in genital lymphedema . a new surgical approach has been used in a case of genital lymphedema . after resection of the lymphedematous mass , u-shaped flaps were made from the suprapubic region anteriorly and the posterior scrotal skin posteriorly . the denuded penis was transposed to its original place by passing it through a buttonhole incision made on the anterior flap . the testicles were placed and fixed in pouches prepared between the anterior and posterior flaps . the patient had an acceptable postoperative outcome both in testicular function and habitual sexual activities . 
acute splenic sequestration crisis in two adults with sickle cell disease : us , ct , and mr imaging findings . acute splenic sequestration crisis ( assc ) is a rare complication in adults with sickle cell disease that is diagnosed clinically by means of sudden splenic enlargement and a rapid fall in hematocrit . two cases of assc in adults with heterozygous sickle cell disease ( sickle cell-thalassemia and sickle cell-hemoglobin c disease ) were studied with use of duplex doppler ultrasound ( us ) , computed tomography ( ct ) , and magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging . in both cases , us showed patency of the splenic vein and multiple hypoechoic lesions on the periphery of an enlarged spleen that were of low attenuation on ct scans and hyperintense on both t1 - and t2-weighted mr images . these findings were believed to be suggestive of subacute hemorrhage . this was confirmed pathologically in one case and suggested in the other by the presence of a low-signal-intensity ring , probably hemosiderin , surrounding one of the lesions . also , the remainder of the spleen in both patients was of normal signal intensity , unlike the diminished signal intensity seen in patients with homozygous sickle cell disease . further study is needed to determine the role of imaging in the diagnosis and treatment of assc . 
hepatic infarction in preeclampsia . two cases of hepatic infarction in toxemia of pregnancy are described . both patients had associated laboratory findings of the hellp syndrome ( hemolytic anemia , elevated liver enzyme levels , and low platelet levels ) . computed tomography ( ct ) showed nonenhancing low-attenuation areas varying in configuration from peripheral , well-defined , wedge-shaped lesions to larger abnormalities . magnetic resonance imaging showed a corresponding area of low signal intensity on t1-weighted images with high signal intensity on t2-weighted images . ultrasound showed several well-defined peripheral hypoechoic areas . the low attenuation and lack of enhancement on ct scans and the absence of mass effect are the key distinguishing features . 
angiocentric lymphoma with histologic features of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with predominant respiratory and hematologic manifestations . report of a case and review of the literature neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis ( nae ) is a rare fatal disease characterized by widespread intravascular proliferations of neoplastic mononuclear cells . clinically , dermatologic and bizarre neurologic manifestations usually predominate . the origin of the neoplastic cells remains still undetermined . the authors report a patient with nae peculiar with respect to the following points : ( 1 ) the patient predominantly manifested respiratory symptoms and hematologic findings and lacked cutaneous or neurologic manifestations ; and ( 2 ) immunohistochemical and molecular genetic studies showed the b-cell nature of the neoplastic cells , although previous cases with predominant respiratory or hematologic manifestations were reported to be of endothelial origin . despite the rarity , this type of nae or angiocentric lymphoma should be recognized because it is easily confused with other disorders , particularly vasculitis or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . 
multiple myeloma and acute megakaryoblast leukemia in spent phase polycythemia vera . the spontaneous and simultaneous occurrence of multiple myeloma and megakaryoblast leukemia with myelodysplastic features in a case of spent phase polycythemia vera is well documented . in support of the morphologic characteristics of the bone marrow , immunocytologic studies show proliferation of monoclonal plasma cells and megakaryoblasts . the cytogenetic findings of 20q - and unbalanced t ( 1 ; 7 ) are consistent with myelodysplastic and leukemic transformation of the bone marrow . these transformations expand observations on variable and spontaneous lineage commitments as the consequence of alterations of the hematopoietic stem cell clone . these data are in support of the changing insights in hematopoiesis as a process of ordered commitment of the stem cell with sequential lineage potentials . 
newborn screening for sickle cell disease . when is an infant ' lost to follow-up ' ? success of programs to screen newborns for sickle cell disease depends on timely follow-up . education regarding fever and splenic palpation , and initiation of prophylactic penicillin therapy , will reduce morbidity and mortality and should occur prior to 4 months of age . however , contacting parents to permit implementation of care may be difficult , particularly in large urban populations ; only nine ( 36 % ) of 25 infants recently identified as having sickle cell disease arrived at our institution for initial appointments . medical providers must be aware of medical and legal obligations related to follow-up of newborns with sickle cell disease to prevent untoward events in " missed cases . " . 
platelet aggregation is not necessary for occurrence of raynaud 's phenomenon : a clinical history and laboratory results . " raynaud 's phenomenon ( r.p. ) is characterized by a spastic vasoconstriction of hand and/or feet extremities leading to painful ischemic attacks . in the pathogeny of this syndrome the role of a platelet hyperactivation was evidenced . nevertheless , the responsibility of platelet aggregation remains controversial . we report here the case of a patient presenting with a glanzmann thrombasthenia defined by the complete lack of platelet aggregation , and showing a typical rp which was confirmed by the measurement of hand temperature and the decrease of digital and hand blood flow . thus , the description of this case shows that platelet aggregation by itself is not necessary for the occurrence of rp , and encourages for therapeutic purposes the development of vasodilatators rather than platelet antiaggregants agents . " . 
ticlopidine treatment reduces the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy . the timad study group . the ticlopidine microangiopathy of diabetes study ( timad ) , a randomized , double-masked , placebo-controlled trial , assessed the effect of this antiplatelet agent ( ticlopidine hydrochloride ) in reducing the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy in 435 patients followed up for 3 years . the mean yearly increase in definite microaneurysms on fluorescein angiograms was significantly higher ( p = .03 ) in the placebo group ( 1.44 + / - 4.67 ) than in the ticlopidine group ( 0.48 + / - 5.79 ) . significance was limited to primary analysis using a quality angiographic coefficient for definite microaneurysms in patients with at least three readable angiograms over a 3-year period . ticlopidine was significantly beneficial to insulin-treated diabetic patients , inducing a sevenfold reduction of the yearly microaneurysm progression ( 0.23 + / - 6.66 ) compared with the placebo ( 1.57 + / - 5.29 ) ( p = .03 ) . among insulin-treated diabetic patients , fewer had development of new vessels in the ticlopidine group than in the placebo group , at borderline statistical significance ( p = .056 ) . overall retinopathy progression was significantly less severe in the ticlopidine group ( p = .04 ) . adverse reactions associated with ticlopidine included neutropenia ( severe in one patient ) with no clinical complications , diarrhea , or rash . this study demonstrated that ticlopidine slows down the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy . 
splenic rupture in a human immunodeficiency virus-infected patient with primary splenic lymphoma . splenic rupture presenting as primary malignant lymphoma of the spleen is a rare event . we report such an occurrence in a young man who had a primary b-cell immunoblastic lymphoma of the spleen and was found to be hiv-positive . we suggest that serologic tests for hiv should be performed in unusual cases of malignant lymphoma . 
alterations in pulmonary mechanics after transfusion in anemic preterm infants . pulmonary mechanics were studied in ten anemic preterm infants using an esophageal balloon and mask , before and after transfusion with 10 ml/kg of packed rbc . their mean birth weight was 1212 + / - 323 g and gestational age was 29.27 + / - 2.4 wk . transfusions were carried out at a mean postnatal age of 41.9 + / - 21.8 days . the mean hct increased from 28 + / - 3.1 to 38.3 + / - 3.3 % . dynamic lung compliance decreased in all infants after transfusion . there was a 33.8 % increase in resistance ; the work of breathing increased after transfusion . these changes might be due to volume overload or increased lung water content . 
elevated serum procollagen iii aminopeptide levels in sarcoidosis . procollagen iii aminopeptide ( p-iii-p ) , a peptide released during the conversion of type iii procollagen to type iii collagen , is considered a potential marker of fibroblast activity in a variety of pulmonary and extrapulmonary diseases . the aim of the present article was to investigate the levels of p-iii-p in serum samples ( sp-iii-p ) from a large number of sarcoid patients , in particular looking at its relationship with other markers of disease activity and its presumed role as a marker of pulmonary fibrosis . sp-iii-p has been radioimmunoassayed in an overall series of 57 patients and the levels were higher ( 19.18 + / - 9.17 ng/ml ) than in 25 age - and sex-matched controls ( 11.32 + / - 2.15 ng/ml ; p less than 0.001 ) . the elevation was neither sex-related nor related to obvious liver sarcoid localization . although sp-iii-p levels were slightly higher in patients with stage ii , there was no significant difference in patients with stage i or iii . we found a positive relationship with serum angiotensin-converting enzyme ( s-ace ) levels ( p less than 0.04 ) , but not with other markers of disease activity ( 67ga uptake , bronchoalveolar lavage [ bal ] lymphocyte percent , vital capacity , and lung diffusing capacity ) . the relationship with s-ace was confirmed in a longitudinal follow-up study , where sp-iii-p strictly paralleled the s-ace behavior . finally , the initial sp-iii-p levels did not predict cases either with disease relapse or resistance to corticosteroid treatment . we conclude that , in our study , sp-iii-p levels failed to characterize sarcoid patients with radiologic fibrotic pattern ( stage iii ) , and , in addition , were unable to predict which patients would have a poor prognosis . rather , they reflect a metabolic activity of sarcoid granuloma cells . thus , the usefulness of sp-iii-p in the treatment of patients with sarcoid may be considered similar to that of s-ace . 
osler-weber-rendu disease and pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas . deterioration and embolotherapy during pregnancy . several reports have implicated pregnancy as a cause of deterioration in patients with pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas . we report a 27-year-old woman with multiple pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas who required coil spring embolotherapy in her 24th week of pregnancy due to a spontaneous hemothorax and hypoxemia . 
ear involvement in the yellow nail syndrome . recognized features of the yellow nail syndrome include yellow nails , lymphedema , and pleural effusions . we report a patient with the additional feature of keratosis obturans , which may be a manifestation of this syndrome in the external ear . 
a constitutive antibody in normal human serum directed against rabbit bone marrow cells : lack in parturients , neonates , and hematologic disorders . normal human serum effectively inhibits a bioassay for erythropoietin based on dna synthesis by rabbit erythroid precursors . this heat-sensitive inhibitory activity is readily lost on dilution of serum , revealing the presence of erythropoietin-potentiating activity . inhibitory activity is caused by a rapid cytotoxic effect on rabbit bone marrow cells ; mouse cells are less sensitive . cytotoxic activity is removed from serum by adsorption to protein a , is not expressed at 4 degrees c , and is neutralized by anti-c3c complement antibody . cytotoxicity is inhibited by egta ; the effect of egta is reversed by addition of ca2 + ions . these findings show that cytotoxicity is exerted through an antibody via the classical pathway of complement-dependent cell lysis . although serum from healthy , adult human donors consistently contains cytotoxic activity , no such activity is observed in most serum samples from neonates , parturients , and patients with severe anemia . patients with polycythemia or chronic renal failure occasionally lack cytotoxic activity in their serum . serum samples lacking cytotoxic activity were found to be deficient in the antibody component in 34 out of 35 cases examined . these results show that an antibody directed against rabbit cells is constitutively present in normal human serum but is absent in a number of pathologic situations as well as being absent in neonates and parturients . 
increased incidence of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance in blacks and its age-related differences with whites on the basis of a study of 397 men and one woman in a hospital setting . serum samples from 398 individuals ( 270 whites and 128 blacks ) exhibiting quantitatively normal amounts of five typically seen fractions ( albumin , alpha 1-globulin , alpha 2-globulin , beta-globulin , and gamma-globulin ) in serum protein electrophoresis and showing no evidence of multiple myeloma , other immunoproliferative diseases , or any of the other diseases known to produce monoclonal proteins were tested for monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance ( mgus ) by immunofixation electrophoresis . no individual in the study had a serum protein electrophoresis pattern suggestive of monoclonal protein gammopathy . except for one 37-year-old woman , all subjects were men . subjects were divided into seven age groups : 20 to 29 years ( i ) , 30 to 39 years ( ii ) , 40 to 49 years ( iii ) , 50 to 59 years ( iv ) , 60 to 69 years ( v ) , 70 to 79 years ( vi ) , and all over 79 years ( vii ) of age . considering all subjects in a given race , blacks had two times ( 14.8 % ) higher incidence of mgus than whites ( 7.8 % ) ; this difference was statistically significant . an increased incidence of mgus in blacks when compared with whites prevailed in each age group , and the difference was statistically significant in all age groups except group ii . no mgus was found in groups i and iii in either race . both races showed a threefold increase in incidence of mgus from group ii to group vii . no routine laboratory test such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate in subjects with mgus was significantly different than that in age - and race-matched individuals without mgus . these results show that the incidence of mgus is higher in the group ( blacks ) also known to have a higher prevalence of multiple myeloma . 
negative screening for sickle cell diseases with a monoclonal immunoassay on newborn blood eluted from filter paper . the most common method of blood sample collection for neonatal screening programs for inherited diseases-blood spots on filter paper -- is poorly suited for screening of sickle cell diseases by conventional assays because of the denaturing effects of this medium on hemoglobins that affect their electrophoretic identifications . the monoclonal antibody beta 6-1 specifically recognizes the hemoglobin a beta-chain residue 6 ( glutamic acid ) , that is , the normal counterpart of hemoglobins s and c , and this recognition is unaffected by changes in hemoglobins induced by filter paper storage . the beta 6-1 immunoassay analysis of 67 prescreened samples extracted from filter paper permitted unambiguous group identification , by virtue of nonreactivity , of the pathologic sickle cell disease phenotypes ss ( sickle cell anemia ) and sc ( sickle cell-hemoglobin c disease ) , along with the homozygous hemoglobin c phenotype ( hemoglobin cc disease ) . other phenotypes identified by beta 6-1 nonreactivity would include s-beta degrees thalassemia , c-beta degrees thalassemia , and beta degrees thalassemia ( cooley 's anemia ) . as systems for collecting newborn blood specimens on filter paper and their transmittal to centralized laboratories are already established in many states , this assay for sickle cell and hemoglobin c diseases could rapidly be combined with other mass screening programs for inborn errors of metabolism . 
rheologic properties of mixed hemoglobin gels : deoxyhemoglobins s and a. to obtain new information concerning the behaviors , and in turn the structures , of gels formed from mixtures of s and a hemoglobins , their physical properties have been characterized by stress relaxation with a rotational rheometer . the variables manipulated were ( 1 ) initial total hemoglobin concentration , ( 2 ) mole fraction of hemoglobin s present in the mixture , ( 3 ) hemoglobin a as intact tetramer only or as both tetramer and hybridized hemoglobin as , ( 4 ) annealing time , ( 5 ) shear history , ( 6 ) temperature , and ( 7 ) temperature and time of annealing . characteristics monitored to gain information about the effect of these variables on gel properties were ( 1 ) lag time , ( 2 ) polymer mass , ( 3 ) polymer fraction , ( 4 ) polymer composition , ( 5 ) equilibrium total hemoglobin activity , and ( 6 ) solidity/total or hemoglobin s polymer mass ( or total or hemoglobin s fraction ) . as expected , mixed hemoglobin sa gels were less solid than those of pure s of similar initial hemoglobin concentrations because of lower polymer mass , and gel properties were influenced by shear history , annealing time , temperature , and temperature and time of annealing . however , when solidities were compared on the basis of similar quantities of gel present , mixed hemoglobin sa gels were found to be more solid than those of pure s as the mole fraction of hemoglobin s decreased in the initial mixture . this is explained by the predominant influence on gel properties of high hemoglobin activity incurred by the volume exclusion effect of the total hemoglobin concentration . the presence of hemoglobin a with hemoglobin s results in polymers and gels that differ from those found in pure hemoglobin s. pathophysiologic implications of these findings for sickle cell disorders are proposed . 
rheologic properties of mixed hemoglobin gels : deoxyhemoglobins s and f. to obtain new information concerning the behaviors -- and in turn , the structures -- of gels formed from mixtures of s and f hemoglobins , their rheologic properties have been characterized by stress relaxation . the variables manipulated were ( 1 ) initial total hemoglobin concentration ; ( 2 ) mole fraction of hemoglobin s present in the mixture ; ( 3 ) hemoglobin f as only intact tetramer or as both tetramers and hybridized hemoglobin ; ( 4 ) hemoglobin f as predominantly g gamma , a gamma , or a mixture of gamma chain types ; ( 5 ) annealing time ; ( 6 ) shear history , ( 7 ) temperature ; and ( 8 ) temperature and time of annealing . characteristics monitored to gain information about the effect of these variables on gel properties were ( 1 ) lag time , ( 2 ) polymer mass , ( 3 ) polymer fraction , ( 4 ) polymer composition , ( 5 ) equilibrium total hemoglobin activity , and ( 6 ) solidity/total or hemoglobin s polymer mass ( or total or hemoglobin s fraction ) . as expected , mixed hemoglobin s and f gels were less solid than pure hemoglobin s gels of similar initial total hemoglobin concentrations because of lower polymer mass , and gel properties were influenced by annealing time , shear history , temperature , and temperature and time of annealing . however , when solidities were compared on the basis of similar quantities of gel present , mixed hemoglobin s and f gels were found to be more solid than those of pure s as the mole fraction of hemoglobin s decreased in the initial mixture . this is explained by the predominant influence on gel properties of high hemoglobin activity incurred by the volume exclusion effect of the total hemoglobin concentration . pathophysiologic implications of these findings for various sickle cell disorders are proposed . 
eosinophilic meningitis : cause of a chronic pain syndrome . three tourists developed eosinophilic meningitis after visiting the fijian islands . two had a severe and long lasting illness with chronic intractable pain . in one patient electrophysiological studies and mri scan of the brain were abnormal and provided evidence of both radicular and cerebral parenchymal involvement by the most likely causative agent , angiostrongylus cantonensis . 
obesity and vaginal hysterectomy . a retrospective study was done of 471 consecutive vaginal hysterectomies done in a three-year period . three groups of patients -- 239 normal to 9 % overweight , 132 10-24 % overweight and 100 greater than or equal to 25 % overweight -- were compared . surgical difficulties were similar in all three groups . the more obese patient had a slightly greater incidence of febrile morbidity , stayed one day longer in the hospital and had a minimally greater loss of hemoglobin 48 hours postoperatively . however , obesity per se caused few problems during and after vaginal hysterectomy . the vaginal approach is the procedure of choice for hysterectomy in obese women . 
paraneoplastic pemphigus . an autoimmune mucocutaneous disease associated with neoplasia . background and methods . we describe five patients with underlying neoplasms in whom painful mucosal ulcerations and polymorphous skin lesions developed , usually with progression to blistering eruptions on the trunk and extremities . histologic examination showed vacuolization of epidermal basal cells , keratinocyte necrosis , and acantholysis . immunofluorescence testing revealed atypical pemphigus-like autoantibodies in perilesional epithelium and serum from all five patients . we studied the antigenic specificities of the autoantibodies by indirect immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation , using extracts of 14c-labeled human keratinocytes . igg purified from the serum of one patient was passively transferred to four neonatal mice to test for pathogenicity . results . immunofluorescence testing showed that the autoantibodies bound to the surface of tissues containing desmosomes , including complex and simple epithelia , and myocardium . an identical and unique complex of four polypeptides with molecular weights of 250 , 230 , 210 , and 190 was immunoprecipitated by all serum samples . the 250-kd polypeptide comigrated with desmoplakin i ( a protein found in the desmosomes of all epithelia ) , and the 230-kd antigen comigrated with the antigen of bullous pemphigoid . cutaneous blisters , a positive nikolsky 's sign , and epidermal and esophageal acantholysis developed in all mice into which the autoantibody was injected . electron microscopy showed epidermal acantholysis similar to lesions of experimentally induced pemphigus vulgaris . conclusion . these five patients with cancer had a novel acantholytic mucocutaneous disease characterized by autoantibodies that were pathogenic after passive transfer . the autoantibodies from these patients reacted with an antigen complex composed of desmoplakin i and the 230-kd antigen of bullous pemphigoid and two as yet unidentified epithelial antigens . we suggest the term " paraneoplastic pemphigus " for this disease . 
giant lymph node hyperplasia of the lung ( castleman 's disease ) associated with recurrent pleural effusion . a case of giant lymph node hyperplasia ( castleman 's disease ) of the lung presented with pleural effusion ( which was recurrent ) , an unusual complication . the patient was treated with pneumonectomy and has survived for three years without relapse . this is the first report of the disease from black africa . 
asymptomatic rhabdomyolysis of unknown etiology . a 7-year-old boy developed rhabdomyolysis with a peak creatine phosphokinase level of 261,400 iu/l after his appendectomy . these abnormalities occurred following a 2-3-day illness consisting of upper respiratory tract symptoms , fever , and abdominal pain mimicking acute appendicitis . at the time of operation , a normal appendix was removed , and mesenteric lymphadenitis was noted . the myoglobinuria and elevation of creatine phosphokinase were transient , and the patient remained asymptomatic . we review various causes of right lower quadrant pain and rhabdomyolysis and address the roles of malignant hyperthermia and infectious agents . the possible cause of the phenomena observed in this patient is discussed . 
corporectomy for intractable sickle-associated priapism . priapism is a complication of sickle cell disease , and for those with severe prolonged attacks , it is serious , often resulting in permanent sexual impairment . treatment is frustrating , and psychological consequences may be profound . a 20-year-old sickle cell patient with intractable priapism associated with intense pain and penile gigantism underwent multiple but unsuccessful medical and surgical treatment regimens . finally , corpora cavernosa corporectomy was performed . the pathologic findings of extensive vascular thrombosis and stromal fibrosis underscore the irreversibility of this process and explain the inevitable impotence . pain and sexual impairment were associated with serious psychological difficulties and suicide attempts . counseling and close follow-up have improved his outlook considerably . he has been pain-free for 1 year , and future management includes consideration of placement of a penile prosthesis . 
anterior segment ischemia : a complication of retinal detachment repair in a patient with sickle cell trait . anterior segment ischemia ( asi ) is a dreaded complication of retinal detachment surgery particularly in patients with predisposing factors such as sickle cell disease . we report a case of asi after scleral buckling in an otherwise healthy black patient with sickle cell trait . conditions of relative hypoxia intraoperatively from either anesthesia or surgical manipulation may precipitate vasoocclusive phenomena in these normally asymptomatic patients . since the incidence of sickle cell trait in the black population in the united states is 8.5 % , we recommend these patients have a preoperative sickle test followed by hemoglobin electrophoresis with quantification if positive . the presence of sickle cell trait should alert the surgeon to the risk of asi , and factors predisposing to hypoxia should be minimized when possible . 
kawasaki disease : echocardiographic features in 91 cases presenting in the united kingdom . ninety-one patients with kawasaki disease were examined by cross sectional echocardiography between 1980 and 1988 . in the 75 patients evaluated during the acute phase of the illness ( the first month ) , the first echocardiographic examination was carried out at a mean time of 16 days ( range 5-30 ) and coronary arterial lesions were seen in 21 ( 28 % ) . two patients with medium sized aneurysms had myocardial infarctions , and one died . coronary arterial lesions persisted in 17 ( 23 % ) patients , most often in younger children . the remaining 16 patients were examined from one month to four years after their acute illnesses , and this group did not have coronary arterial abnormalities . seven patients with coronary artery lesions have reached school age and require regular echocardiographic examination and exercise electrocardiography . selective coronary arteriography may be indicated in some patients to identify coronary artery stenosis , which the japanese experience has shown may progress for several years after the acute illness . 
continuous papaveretum infusion for the control of pain in painful sickling crisis . we describe our experience of using continuous papaveretum infusions to control pain in 24 children admitted on 45 occasions with painful sickling crisis . the children were aged from 1.7 to 14.3 years . infusion duration ranged from one to nine days ( median three days ) , total dose from 0.3 to 21 mg/kg ( median 2.4 mg/kg ) , with a pronounced tendency for dosage to increase with increasing age . no respiratory depression was observed . one infusion was discontinued because of cerebral toxicity . 
intravenous immunoglobulin in virus associated haemophagocytic syndrome . a 1 year old boy with virus associated haemophagocytic syndrome caused by cytomegalovirus infection is described . persistent severe thrombocytopenia responded to repeated intravenous infusions of immunoglobulin . 
angle-closure glaucoma as initial presentation of myelodysplastic syndrome . a 57-year-old man presented with proptosis of the right eye and findings consistent with bilateral angle-closure glaucoma . subsequent evaluation revealed severe bilateral uveal effusions and associated nonrhegmatogenous retinal detachments , which were felt to be related to orbital pseudotumour and associated scleritis . hematologic studies were consistent with a diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndrome . although myelodysplastic syndrome has been reported in one patient with orbital inflammation and myositis , to our knowledge ciliochoroidal effusion and secondary angle closure have not previously been reported in myelodysplastic syndrome . 
primary malignant lymphomas of the spleen . a morphologic and immunohistochemical analysis of 17 cases . seventeen cases of primary malignant lymphoma of the spleen ( pmls ) were identified among 500 splenectomy specimens showing involvement by hodgkin 's disease or non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . all pmls represented non-hodgkin 's lymphoma and most of them were of b-cell origin . in two cases pmls were associated with hamartomas of the spleen ( splenomas ) . histologic and immunohistochemical studies did not reveal any differences between pmls and disseminated malignant lymphomas with splenic involvement with regard to morphologic features , immunophenotype , host cell infiltrates , or proliferation activity . the reasons for the infrequent occurrence of primary lymphomas in the spleen may not be sought in a special immunophenotype of pmls , a vigorous host response in the spleen , or in a lower proliferation activity of splenic lymphomas . 
effects of the differentiating agent hexamethylene bisacetamide on normal and myelodysplastic hematopoietic progenitors . hexamethylene bisacetamide ( hmba ; nsc 95580 ) is a potent polar-planar differentiating agent of leukemia and solid tumor cell lines in vitro at clinically achievable concentrations . hmba is currently being studied in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . previous phase i trials have demonstrated that hmba produces hematologic toxicity in morphologically normal bone marrows of patients with solid tumors . because of concern that hmba may produce more severe myelotoxicity in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome since these patients have limited hematopoietic reserves , we studied the effects of hmba on myelodysplastic and normal hematopoietic progenitors in vitro . hmba concentrations that are optimal for differentiation in vitro ( 2 to 5 mmol/l ) and hmba concentrations that are being achieved in clinical trials ( 1 to 2 mmol/l ) inhibited the growth of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units and erythroid burst-forming units from all 15 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and all 4 normal subjects , hmba did not induce proliferation of myelodysplastic or normal progenitors at any concentration ; rather , it produced nearly identical inhibition of normal and myelodysplastic hematopoietic progenitors . hmba also produced quantitatively similar inhibition of clonogenic leukemic growth of two myeloid leukemia cell lines . for a differentiating agent to be effective , it will likely have to either produce both differentiation and proliferation of abnormal hematopoietic progenitors or show selective inhibitory effects on abnormal as compared with normal progenitors . although the mechanisms responsible for the antiproliferative effects of hmba can not be determined from this study , similar inhibitory effects of hmba on normal and abnormal hematopoietic progenitors suggest that hmba may be of limited utility in producing and sustaining elevations of peripheral blood cell counts in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . 
congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system : a new clinical classification . the numerous clinical presentations of congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system in children and the confusing terminology used to describe their pathologic diagnoses impede the physician 's understanding of the condition . the clinical classification based on the actual symptoms of the congenital problems we have presented here should help the physician identify the specific abnormality and a potential treatment . future research should concentrate on the specific causes and the treatment of these congenital abnormalities . 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura treated with high-dose intravenous gamma globulin . plasma infusion and/or plasma exchange has become standard therapy in the treatment of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) . the management of patients in whom such primary therapy fails is difficult and uncertain . we have described a patient who obtained a sustained remission with the use of high-dose iv gamma globulin after an initial response to aggressive plasma exchange was followed by prompt relapse . our case and others suggest that high-dose iv igg may induce remission in patients with ttp who do not respond to standard plasma infusion and/or exchange . 
ulcerative lesions and herpes simplex virus type 2 in a patient with evan 's syndrome . we have described a case of herpes genitalis in a patient with evans 's syndrome who had violaceous macules leading to deep ulcerations . this case serves as a reminder that hsv infection may be atypical and have an unusual course in immunocompromised patients . with the availability of specific therapy for this infection , it is important to consider hsv in the differential diagnosis of all ulcerative skin lesions . 
synchronous diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma and gastric adenocarcinoma presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia . diffuse well-differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma ( d-wdll ) and chronic lymphocytic lymphoma ( cll ) represent closely related neoplasms which may have indolent courses . dating back more than one century , reports of associated second primary malignancies continue to intrigue clinicians . a case of synchronous d-wdll and gastric adenocarcinoma , presenting as splenomegaly and iron deficiency anemia , is presented . the case and literature are reviewed . 
treatment with 13-cis-retinoic acid in transfusion-dependent patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and decreased toxicity with addition of alpha-tocopherol . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the response and tolerance to long-term treatment using 13-cis-retinoic acid ( 13-cra ) in transfusion-dependent patients with the myelodysplastic syndrome ( mds ) and to determine the effects of therapy on the natural history of the disease . patients and methods : sixty-six consecutive patients with transfusion-dependent mds seen in a medical school hospital and outpatient clinic from 1981 to 1988 were studied . the first 21 patients were treated with 13-cra alone and the next 45 patients with 13-cra plus alpha-tocopherol ( at ) . we compared responses to and toxicities of therapy , rates of transformation , and survival from onset of therapy in 20 evaluable patients treated with 13-cra alone and 43 patients treated with 13-cra plus at . results : four patients responded ( 20 % ) at 4 to 8 months to 13-cra alone , but this response was associated with considerable toxicity and resulted in cessation of therapy . among the responders , only one continued therapy and is currently in remission , whereas three discontinued therapy because of toxicity and have had a relapse and died . in the 13-cra plus at group , we observed one prolonged complete remission and 10 partial remissions ( 26 % ) , with a decrease in skin and constitutional toxicities by the addition of at , which enabled the continuation of 13-cra indefinitely . although the response rates were similar in both groups , fewer patients ( 28 % versus 60 % ) experienced progression to acute leukemia in the 13-cra plus at group than in the group receiving 13-cra alone , who terminated treatment ( p = 0.018 ) . a twofold increase in median survival of the ra/rars and raeb/cmml patient groups was observed with 13-cra plus at but was not significant ( p greater than 0.5 ) . conclusion : this study shows a 20 % to 26 % response rate to 13-cra and suggests that 13-cra , if given continuously , decreases the rate of progression or transformation to acute leukemia in patients with mds . the addition of at ameliorates the toxicity of 13-cra and allows for long-term treatment with 13-cra . since the standard treatment for mds is currently unsatisfactory , these findings indicate that longer treatment with a non-marrow-suppressive agent such as 13-cra is important , and further trials to determine the role of 13-cra plus at in combination with new recombinant growth factors in the therapy for transfusion-dependent mds should offer a new approach to a disease common in the elderly population . 
edgar j poth lecture . pathogenesis , diagnosis , and treatment of thrombosis . thrombosis and its major sequela , embolism , continue to contribute significantly to morbidity and mortality , both as primary disorders and as complications of other systemic systems . the understanding of the etiology of thromboembolism and the role of platelets , endothelium , and the plasma proteins in the development of thrombotic disorders has recently improved . other blood cells , in particular neutrophils , have been suggested as possible mediators of thrombosis in clinical disorders characterized by decreased capillary blood flow . newer imaging techniques such as duplex scanning have improved the accuracy and ease of diagnosis . thrombolytic therapy is a more physiologic approach to the management of thrombosis , but its role is limited by systemic fibrinolysis . the development of fibrin-specific agents and better delivery techniques in combination with thromboembolectomy and anticoagulation should improve the management of patients with thrombosis . 
nitrobenzene poisoning and spurious pulse oximetry . the successful management of nitrobenzene poisoning in a 21-year-old patient is presented . we report our experience of ventilatory care with additional intravenous methylene blue and ascorbic acid therapy . pulse oximeters available at present are not useful in patients treated with methylene blue and should be used cautiously in the presence of cyanosis of unknown aetiology . 
caesarean section in a patient with haemoglobin sc disease and a phaeochromocytoma . the anaesthetic management of a patient with haemoglobin sc disease for lower segment caesarean section and excision of a phaeochromocytoma is described . the patient was given a general anaesthetic for the surgical procedure after exchange transfusion had achieved an haemoglobin a concentration of greater than 50 % . a live infant was delivered and a suprarenal phaeochromocytoma was excised during a 6.5 hour procedure . the patient 's postoperative recovery was uneventful . 
the effect of corticosteroid or methotrexate therapy on lung lymphocytes and macrophages in sarcoidosis . methotrexate appears to be an effective alternative to corticosteroid therapy for some patients with sarcoidosis . the mechanism of action of methotrexate as an immunosuppressive is unknown . patients with symptomatic pulmonary sarcoidosis underwent pulmonary function tests and bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage . patients were treated with 10 mg methotrexate or prednisone weekly for at least 6 months and repeat studies were performed . a comparison was made between those patients receiving methotrexate ( 12 patients ) and those receiving prednisone ( 12 patients ) . for both groups , there was a significant improvement in the vital capacity with therapy ( prednisone : pre = 2.5 + / - 0.14 l ( mean + / - sem ) ; post = 3.1 + / - 0.18 l , p less than 0.01 ; methotrexate : pre = 2.4 + / - 0.14 l ; post = 2.8 + / - 0.18 l , p less than 0.01 ) . in addition , the percentage of lymphocytes in the lavage fell significantly for both the prednisone ( pre : 30 + / - 3.5 % ; post : 16 + / - 2.7 % , p less than 0.001 ) and methotrexate ( pre : 37 + / - 3.4 % ; post : 13 + / - 2.9 % , p less than 0.001 ) groups . alveolar macrophages from the symptomatic sarcoid patients were found to be spontaneously releasing hydrogen peroxide and tumor necrosis factor . after treatment with either prednisone or methotrexate , alveolar macrophages retrieved by lavage spontaneously released less of either macrophage product . we found that effective doses of methotrexate for sarcoidosis led to significant changes in lymphocyte and macrophages retrieved by lavage . 
severe anemia is an important negative predictor for survival with disseminated mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ published erratum appears in am rev respir dis 1991 feb ; 143 ( 2 ) :451 ] disseminated mycobacterium avium-intracellulare ( mai ) in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is usually unresponsive to antimycobacterial therapy . we examined clinical and laboratory characteristics of mai organisms and their relationship to the length of survival . we studied factors influencing survival and compared these in 76 patients with aids with and without mai . serum levels of p24 antigen and erythropoietin , and cd4-positive helper t-lymphocytes in blood were assessed in 36 additional patients with various clinical stages of hiv infection . in patients with mai infection , survival was significantly related only to total lymphocyte count , hematocrit , platelet count , and sex . of these , hematocrit and total lymphocyte count were the only linear predictors of survival . anemia was significantly more profound in patients with aids and mai than in the other patients . this anemia in patients with mai could not be ascribed to increased peripheral destruction of red cells , deficient nutritional factors , or erythropoietin production , hiv viral or bacterial load , or a general effect on other blood elements such as neutrophils or platelets . the influence of mai on survival in patients with aids did depend upon whether the mai occurred as an index infection or was preceded by other opportunistic infections . patients with other preceding opportunistic infection lived for a much shorter duration from the time of diagnosis of mai . 
peripheral neuropathy associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . in 1989 , the centers for disease control recognized the existence of an epidemic illness characterized by myalgia and eosinophilia in individuals taking preparations containing l-tryptophan . we evaluated 3 patients with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who presented with subacute progressive neuropathies . the neuropathies were predominantly motor and maximal in the lower extremities . two patients were confined to a wheelchair and one was ventilator-dependent and bedridden . sensory loss predominantly involved small fiber modalities . electrophysiological studies showed multifocal marked conduction slowing and conduction block indicating segmental demyelination , with associated axonal degeneration that was accentuated distally . examination of sural nerve biopsy specimens demonstrated axonal degeneration in all 3 patients and perivascular infiltrates in 2 . levels of quinolinic acid , a neurotoxic metabolite of l-tryptophan , were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid in the 2 patients in whom it was measured . the cause of the neuropathy is unknown but may include immune mechanisms or toxicity of eosinophils , l-tryptophan , its metabolic products , or contaminants within l-tryptophan preparations . 
normal reticulin level in iliac bone marrow . while the level of marrow reticulin may be a factor that is used when the presence of a hematologic disorder is being considered , to our knowledge no study has graded the amount of reticulin present in normal iliac bone marrow . grading reticulin stains of bone biopsy specimens from 100 hematologically normal patients documented that the normal amount of reticulin in the marrow is low . twenty-seven percent of the patients had marrow reticulin grade 0 using the bauermeister scale , 42 % had grade n , 27 % had grade 1 , and 4 % had grade 2 ; no patient had a bauermeister grade 3 or 4 reticulin level . knowledge of the normal range of reticulin is essential when the reticulin level is used as a factor in evaluating the possibility of a hematologic disorder . 
extramedullary hematopoiesis in a bronchial carcinoid tumor . an unusual complication of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia . a case of bronchial carcinoid tumor with foci of extramedullary hematopoiesis is presented . the patient had a 6-year history of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia and hepatosplenomegaly . all three hematopoietic cell lines were represented in different areas of the bronchial tumor . to our knowledge , this is the first case of extramedullary hematopoiesis described in a bronchial carcinoid and only the fourth report of hematopoietic cells in a neoplasm of otherwise unrelated origin . the pathogenesis of this uncommon finding is discussed and the literature is reviewed . 
effects of recombinant human erythropoietin on t lymphocyte subsets in hemodialysis patients . lymphocyte subpopulations were studied by immunofluorescence staining with monoclonal antibodies and laser flow cytometry in the blood of 23 hemodialysis patients before and after 3 months of treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin ( rhepo ) . correction of anemia was accompanied by an increase in natural killer cells and a decrease in b lymphocytes . in the 11 patients ( group 1 ) with a baseline helper/suppressor ( t4/t8 ) ratio greater than or equal to 2 , the latter significantly decreased from 3.0 + / - 0.3 to 2.1 + / - 0.3 through both an increase in t8 cells and a decrease in t4 cells ( p less than 0.005 ) . among the 12 patients with a pre-epo t4/t8 ratio less than 2 ( group 2 ) , no difference in t cell subsets was observed . the decrease in ferritin levels observed over the study period was not significant . in addition , the mean increase in hemoglobin levels during the first month of rhepo therapy was greater in group 2 than in group 1 ( 1.1 + / - 0.3 vs. 0.6 + / - 0.3 g/dl , p less than 0.025 ) . no change in any parameter was observed in eight control patients not receiving rhepo . these results suggest that rhepo can induce changes in lymphocyte subpopulations of hemodialysis patients through mechanism ( s ) yet to be clarified ; conversely , the t4/t8 ratio might be a predictive factor for the erythropoietic response to rhepo . 
effectiveness of low dose erythropoietin : a possible advantage of high flux hemodialysis . recombinant human erythropoietin ( epo ) was administered to 32 stable out-patients with end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) on a priority basis three times a week . all patients underwent dialysis with polysulfone hollow fiber dialyzers . mean time-averaged blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) value was 50 + / - 12 mg/dl , and kt/v for urea was 1.20 + / - 0.34 / dialysis . the initial dose of epo was 2,800 + / - 950 u/dialysis ( 45 + / - 17 u/kg/dialysis ) . the maintenance dose averaged 2,500 u/dialysis . within the mean time of observation , 15 + / - 4 weeks , all but one patient responded to epo by eliminating transfusion requirements , and 29 of 32 achieved the target hematocrit of 30-33 % . for patients with hematocrits below 25 % before epo , the increase averaged 1.6 + / - 0.8 % / week . the dose of epo was lower and the hematocrit response was higher than reported previously . the rate of increase in hematocrit did not correlate with small molecular weight solute removal . mean red blood cell survival was 52 + / - 18 days . no adjustments in blood pressure ( bp ) medications or dry weight were required to control bp . these data and earlier experiences with recovery from the anemia of esrd after more effective dialysis suggest that the bone marrow response to epo may be augmented by high flux hemodialysis . 
leukocyte overshoot : a new sign of bioincompatibility in fast hemodialysis . a high blood flow of 400 ml/min induces leukocytosis after 2 hr of dialysis with leukocyte concentrations of 110-150 % of predialysis values . the leukocytosis occurs with both low and high biocompatible membranes , such as cuprophan , hemophan , and polyamide . cuprophan induces the most profound leukopenia , and also induces the most pronounced leukocytosis . for treatments with a given membrane there was , however , no correlation between leukopenia and leukocytosis . leukopenia was independent of blood flow , while leukocytosis was strongly influenced by this factor . these observations indicate that different factors cause leukopenia and leukocytosis . although a larger area induced more leukopenia , the effect was small . membrane area had no effect on leukocytosis . there were no acute clinical side effects during dialysis that could be related to the leukocyte overshoot . the cause and chronic clinical consequences of leukocyte overshoot are unknown . 
recombinant human erythropoietin does not increase clotting in vascular accesses . the incidence of vascular access clotting was evaluated over 5.25 years . the first 32 months served as a control period . during the second period of 31 months , recombinant human erythropoietin ( epoetin ) was used for an average duration of 13 months ( range , 2-32 months ) in 79 patients . the overall incidence of vascular access clotting decreased from a monthly rate of 0.06 to 0.03 events per patient-month over the 5 year period . distribution of the number of events per patient did not differ between the two periods , with 55 % to 60 % of patients having no clotting episode . patients with recurrent clotting ( two or more events ) accounted for 68 % of episodes . during the second period , there were no differences in the incidence of vascular access clotting in epoetin treated patients vs untreated patients ( 0.38 events per patient-year vs. 0.46 events per patient-year , both slightly lower than in period 1 [ 0.52 events per patient-year ] ) . it is concluded that epoetin does not increase vascular access clotting . 
surgical presentation of kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) . five patients with kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain , peripheral arterial aneurysms , digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction . as the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery , which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent , the recognition of kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy . 
primary peritoneal sarcoidosis . a 14-year-old male was admitted for the evaluation of tense exudative ascites . despite thorough evaluation , the diagnosis remained cryptic until peritoneoscopy revealed diffuse studding of the entire visualized peritoneum with multiple miliary nodules , and peritoneal biopsy demonstrated multiple noncaseating epithelioid granulomas . after other causes were excluded , a diagnosis of sarcoidosis was considered and confirmed with classic endobronchial findings at bronchoscopy . involvement of the peritoneum with sarcoidosis is rare and , to our knowledge , only one other case describes this as the initial manifestation of this disease . 
colony-stimulating factors . recombinant hematopoietic colony-stimulating factors have profound effects on developing and mature granulocytes , macrophages , and lymphocytes . use of these agents for treatment of disease may result in a variety of adverse cutaneous reactions . the recent discovery of colony-stimulating factor production by keratinocytes and dermal cells suggests that these agents may also be significant in cutaneous homeostasis and in the pathogenesis of cutaneous diseases . 
treatment of drug-induced agranulocytosis with recombinant gm-csf a 53-year male patient , treated for rheumatoid arthritis with sulphasalazine , developed a total agranulocytosis . when this state had prevailed for at least 10 d no bone marrow granulocyte progenitor cells were detectable . intravenous gm-csf treatment was initiated 5 d later , and the patient recovered within the next 6 d. gm-csf treatment for severe agranulocytosis deserves further investigation . 
a phase i study of recombinant human interferon-alpha 2a or human lymphoblastoid interferon-alpha n1 and concomitant zidovudine in patients with aids-related kaposi 's sarcoma . to determine the safety , maximum tolerated dose , and preliminary efficacy of concomitant interferon-alpha and zidovudine therapy in aids-related kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) , 56 patients with biopsy-proven ks and documented human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv ) infection were enrolled into a phase i study . interferon-alpha was given intramuscularly at a dose of 9 , 18 , or 27 mu once a day and zidovudine was administered as 100 or 200 mg every 4 h for 8 weeks followed by a 48-week maintenance period . the major toxicities were anemia , neutropenia , and hepatotoxicity . neutropenia was dose limiting with 1,200 mg of zidovudine/day and the lowest dose of interferon-alpha ( 9 mu/day ) . hepatotoxicity was dose limiting with 27 mu of interferon and 600 mg of zidovudine/day . cumulative dose-related anemia or neutropenia was not seen during long-term follow-up . the maximum tolerated doses for the combination were defined as 18 mu daily for interferon-alpha and 600 mg daily for zidovudine . variable changes in cd4 lymphocytes occurred during the first 8 weeks of therapy . at higher doses of the combination , sustained increases in median cd4 lymphocyte numbers were noted ( p less than 0.001 ) . in hiv antigenemic patients , progressive antigen suppression was seen with increasing doses of the combination ( p less than 0.005 ) . the overall antitumor response rate was 47 % . tumor regression was associated with better survival benefits ( p less than 0.001 ) and a pretreatment cd4 cell count greater than or equal to 200 cells/mm3 ( p = 0.01 ) . in conclusion , intermediate doses of interferon-alpha and lower doses of zidovudine appear to be relatively well tolerated and associated with disease improvement , including survival benefits . 
diclofenac induced immune thrombocytopenia . we describe a patient with scleroderma who developed immune thrombocytopenia secondary to diclofenac on 2 occasions . platelet count returned to normal with cessation of diclofenac and institution of prednisone . 
microscopic wegener 's disease : a particular form of wegener 's granulomatosis . we describe a case of wegener 's granulomatosis in which the disease was manifested with crescentic glomerulonephritis , upper airway ulcerations , and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia with consumptive coagulopathy . no granuloma was identified but antibodies to cytoplasmic components of neutrophils were strongly positive with a diffuse pattern . because microscopic vessels were predominantly involved ( capillaritis ) , and granuloma were absent , were refer to this particular form of the disease as " microscopic wegener 's disease . " . 
