mistaken diagnoses in continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin . the syndrome of continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin has manifestations that resemble those of many other more common neurologic disorders during childhood and infancy . this similarity often leads to misdiagnosis when an adequate index of suspicion is not entertained and a comprehensive electromyographic examination is not performed . two affected patients from 1 family are reported to illustrate the type of diagnostic errors that were made before the establishment of the correct diagnosis . 
reversible myopathy due to labetalol . a severe , generalized myopathy developed in 2 children treated with labetalol . an 11-year-old girl and a 14-year-old boy demonstrated proximal weakness and markedly elevated creatine kinase levels during labetalol therapy . clinical improvement began immediately when labetalol administration was halted ; muscle strength was normal within 2 months . muscle biopsies were consistent with rhabdomyolysis . 
factor xiii deficiency and intracranial hemorrhages in infancy . we report an infant with factor xiii deficiency who had 2 seemingly spontaneous intracranial hemorrhages . it is important to consider factor xiii deficiency as a possible cause of unexplained intracranial hemorrhages in infancy . ongoing factor replacement therapy is recommended to prevent further bleeding episodes . 
varicella with delayed hemiplegia . we report 4 children who developed acute hemiplegia 7 weeks to 4 months after varicella infection . in 2 patients , carotid angiography demonstrated segmental narrowing and occlusion of the middle cerebral artery . their clinical and angiographic features were similar to those associated with contralateral hemiplegia after herpes zoster ophthalmicus , the pathogenesis of which comprises cerebral angiitis due to varicella zoster viral infection . we believe that our patients had the same pathogenesis . in a survey of infectious diseases in our region , the frequency of varicella with delayed hemiparesis was roughly 1:6,500 varicella patients . 
trisomy 13 : a new recurring chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia . a new recurring chromosome abnormality was identified in 8 of 621 consecutive successfully karyotyped adults with de novo acute leukemia . these eight patients had trisomy 13 as the sole cytogenetic abnormality . on central morphologic review , five cases were classified as subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia , one as acute mixed lymphoid and myeloid leukemia , one as acute lymphoid leukemia , and one as acute undifferentiated leukemia . blasts of all eight cases expressed one or more myeloid differentiation antigens . three also expressed t-lineage-associated antigens ; however , none of these had rearrangement of the t-cell receptor beta , gamma , or delta genes . four of six cases tested were tdt positive . all eight patients with trisomy 13 were treated with intensive induction chemotherapy ; only three entered a short-lived complete remission . survival of patients with trisomy 13 ranged from 0.5 to 14.7 months , and was significantly shorter than that of the remaining patients ( median 9.5 v 16.2 months , p = .007 ) . we conclude that trisomy 13 is a rare , recurring clonal chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia associated with a poor prognosis . malignant transformation of an immature hematopoietic precursor cell is suggested by the expression of antigens characteristic of both the myeloid and lymphoid lineage , the high incidence of tdt positivity , and the morphologic heterogeneity in these leukemias . 
abnormalities of the long arm of chromosome 6 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia . to determine the biologic significance of the structural rearrangements of the long arm of chromosome 6 ( 6q ) in acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) at diagnosis , we studied 412 consecutive children whose leukemic cell chromosomes had been completely banded and identified 45 ( 11 % ) children with this abnormality . the 45 cases were divided into del ( 6q ) only ( n = 11 ) , del ( 6q ) and numerical abnormalities ( n = 4 ) , del ( 6q ) and structural abnormalities ( n = 23 ) , and 6q translocations ( n = 7 ) . the breakpoints of del ( 6q ) were subgrouped : del ( 6 ) ( q15q21 ) in 11 cases , del ( 6 ) ( q13q21 ) in six , del ( 6 ) ( q21q23 ) in four , del ( 6 ) ( q15 ) in four , del ( 6 ) ( q15q23 ) in three , and other deletions in 10 cases . notably , all these deletions encompassed the 6q21 band , suggesting that this might be the locus of a recessive tumor suppressor gene , the absence of which contributes to malignant transformation or proliferation . among the seven children with 6q translocations , a previously unidentified nonrandom translocation , t ( 6 ; 12 ) ( q21 ; p13 ) was noted in two cases with an early pre-b immunophenotype . clinical features and event-free survival were similar among children with or without 6q abnormalities . overall , children with 6q abnormalities were less likely than those without the abnormality to have a pre-b immunophenotype ( p = .03 ) . t-cell immunophenotypes were equally represented in cases with or without 6q abnormalities . however , all four children with del ( 6q ) and a 12p abnormality had early pre-b all and all three children with del ( 6q ) and a 9p abnormality had a t-cell immunophenotype . the lack of specificity for a particular immunophenotype may imply that the gene or genes affected by 6q abnormalities are broadly active in the multistep process of lymphoid leukemogenesis . the relatively high frequency of microscopically visible del ( 6q ) indicates the need for molecular studies to identify cases with submicroscopic deletions . 
early detection of gastric cancer objective -- to see whether investigation of dyspeptic patients aged over 40 after their first consultation with the general practitioner would increase the proportions with early and operable gastric cancers . design -- prospective study of gastric cancer in dyspeptic patients aged over 40 from a defined population . setting -- 10 general practices ( six in central birmingham , four in sandwell ) ; the queen elizabeth hospital , birmingham ; and sandwell district general hospital . patients -- 2659 patients aged 40 or over referred with dyspepsia . main outcome measure -- increase in early and operable gastric cancers detected in middle aged patients with dyspepsia . results -- disease was identified in 1992 patients ( 75 % ) . fifty seven were found to have gastric cancer , 36 being treated by potentially curative resection , including 15 with early cancer . conclusions -- the investigation of dyspeptic patients over 40 at first attendance can increase the proportion of early gastric cancers detected to 26 % and the proportion of operable cases to 63 % . such a policy has the potential to reduce mortality from gastric cancer in the population . 
menstrual state and exercise as determinants of spinal trabecular bone density in female athletes . objective -- to study the effects of amenorrhoea and intensive back exercise on the bone mineral density of the lumbar spine in female athletes . design -- cross sectional study comparing amenorrhoeic with eumenorrhoeic athletes and rowers with non-rowers . setting -- the british olympic medical centre , northwick park hospital . patients -- 46 elite female athletes comprising 19 rowers , 18 runners , and nine dancers , of whom 25 were amenorrhoeic and 21 eumenorrhoeic . main outcome measure -- trabecular bone mineral density of the lumbar spine measured by computed tomography . results -- mean trabecular bone mineral density was 42 mg/cm3 ( 95 % confidence interval 22 to 62 mg/cm3 ) lower in the amenorrhoeic than the eumenorrhoeic athletes ; this difference was highly significant ( p = 0.0002 ) . mean trabecular bone mineral density was 21 mg/cm3 ( 1 to 41 mg/cm3 ) lower in the non-rowers than the rowers ; this was also significant ( p = 0.05 ) . there was no interaction between these two effects ( p = 0.28 ) . conclusion -- the effect of intensive exercise on the lumbar spine partially compensates for the adverse effect of amenorrhoea on spinal trabecular bone density . 
renal replacement treatment for diabetic patients in newcastle upon tyne and the northern region , 1964-88 . objectives -- to review the experience of renal replacement treatment in diabetic patients treated in newcastle upon tyne and the northern region from 1964 to 1988 , and to compare the morbidity and mortality of diabetic patients treated with dialysis or transplantation with those of matched controls of non-diabetic patients . design -- retrospective study of clinical case notes . setting -- renal units of the northern region , particularly that in newcastle upon tyne . patients -- all 65 diabetic patients treated by renal replacement treatment in newcastle upon tyne from 1964 to 1987 ; 42 diabetic patients were matched with 42 non-diabetic patients according to age , sex , year of starting treatment , and type of treatment ( dialysis or transplantation ) . main outcome measures -- sex , age , renal biopsy findings , blood pressure , history of diabetic treatment , and plasma creatinine concentration at the start of renal replacement treatment . history of renal replacement treatments , suitability for transplantation , history of transplantation , cumulative survival , and cause of death during follow up . survival of technique , cumulative survival of the first peritoneal catheter and history of peritonitis in patients treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ; source of graft , histocompatibility antigens , duration of associated stay in hospital , and graft survival in patients receiving renal or pancreatic transplant . results -- 1259 patients with chronic renal failure were accepted for renal replacement treatment in newcastle upon tyne , of whom 65 ( 5 % ) had diabetes . the first was accepted in 1974 , and between 1974 and 1980 another 15 were treated ( mean age 42 years ; 4 % of new patients ) . from 1981 to 1987 , 49 diabetic patients ( mean age 44 ; 9 % of new patients ) were treated . fifty patients ( 77 % ) had insulin dependent diabetes and the remaining 15 ( 23 % ) non-insulin dependent diabetes . on average , the patients were aged 25 ( range 5-57 ) when diabetes was first diagnosed and 44 ( range 24-70 ) at the start of renal replacement treatment . the mean age at the start of treatment was 40 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes and 58 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes . transplantation was performed in 33 of the diabetic patients , whose mean age was lower than that of those who did not receive a transplant ( 41 v 48 respectively , p less than 0.05 ) . comparison between the 42 diabetic patients and matched controls showed that the overall survival at five years was 46 % and 77 % respectively . the three year survival of the diabetic patients who did not receive a transplant was poor ( 41 % v 79 % respectively ) . of patients transplanted , survival at five years was 73 % in the diabetic patients and 90 % in the controls . however , there was no significant difference in the five year graft survival ( 64 % v 46 % respectively ) . conclusions -- diabetes adversely affects morbidity and mortality in patients having renal replacement treatment , but renal transplantation seems to be the best option for treating diabetic patients with end stage renal failure . 
nuclear techniques for the analysis of urinary calculi . sections of urinary calculi were prepared and point-by-point analyses along a line-scan were carried out using the techniques of proton-induced x-ray emission ( pixe ) and nuclear reaction analysis ( nra ) . correlations between several pairs of elements ( including trace elements ) were noted and it was also clear that the composition of a stone varied markedly at different stages of development . 
renal carcinoma in a solitary kidney . we studied the clinical and pathological features of 26 patients with renal carcinoma of a solitary kidney , including 6 treated at this hospital . four patients had a contracted kidney and 22 had previously undergone nephrectomy . partial nephrectomy was performed in 16 patients , enucleation of the tumour in 5 and radical nephrectomy in 5 because of the size of the tumour . ex vivo surgery was carried out in 4 patients . the duration of ischaemia ranged from 15 to 365 min but was longer in those who underwent ex vivo surgery ( 149 to 365 min ) . of the 21 patients who underwent partial nephrectomy or enucleation , the serum creatinine level increased ( greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl ) post-operatively in 16 patients , of whom 9 required temporary haemodialysis . no recurrence has been noted in those who underwent partial nephrectomy , but 1 patient who underwent enucleation of the tumour developed a solitary pancreatic metastasis 2 years 6 months after surgery and was treated by a partial pancreatectomy . kidney-preserving surgical procedures are considered to improve the quality of life , but careful follow-up is necessary . 
cobb 's collar -- a forgotten entity . cobb 's collar or moormann 's ring is a stricture of the bulbar urethra which is largely unrecognised but has considerable relevance urologically as the site of congenital or post-instrumental strictures . the history , anatomy , embryology and surgical importance are reported . 
permanent external striated sphincter stents in patients with spinal injuries . nine patients with complete quadriplegia underwent external striated sphincter stenting with the wallstent in place of an external striated sphincterotomy . although suprapubic catheters were placed to provide an outlet should problems develop with the stent , they were successfully removed within 6 weeks in all but 1 patient . complete bladder emptying with reduced voiding pressures was achieved , together with a significant reduction in the duration of hyper-reflexic contractions . epithelialisation of the stent was almost complete within 3 months and intermittent catheterisation or endoscopy ( and resection ) is possible through the stent . although this is a preliminary report of this new technique , it is hoped that sphincter stenting will provide a rapid , safe and effective method of treating high pressure hyper-reflexia and detrusor sphincter dyssynergia in quadriplegic patients . 
granulomatous orchitis . review of 15 cases . granulomatous orchitis is a rare lesion of the testis which can clinically simulate malignancy . the clinical , radiological and pathological features of 15 patients are presented and discussed . 
choice of emergency operative procedure for bleeding duodenal ulcer in a consecutive series of 201 emergency operations in patients with bleeding duodenal ulcer the size of the ulcer was the only factor that showed a significant correlation with the procedure chosen . vagotomy , pyloroplasty and underrunning of the bleeding point was performed in 101 cases with ten deaths ( 10 per cent ) , partial ( billroth ii ) gastrectomy in 81 cases with ten deaths ( 12 per cent ) , and vagotomy and antrectomy in 16 cases with one death ( 6 per cent ) . a patient was more likely to be treated by partial gastrectomy if a giant ulcer with an internal diameter of greater than or equal to 2 cm was found . the results suggest that while vagotomy and pyloroplasty , combined with a direct attack on the bleeding point or excision of an anterior ulcer is an acceptable standard emergency operation for bleeding duodenal ulcer , gastric resection proved to be a satisfactory alternative procedure and should be considered in the technically difficult case with a very large ulcer . a giant ulcer was present in 37 per cent of cases coming to surgery . 
anterior lesser curve seromyotomy and posterior truncal vagotomy versus truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty in the treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer . in a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial , anterior lesser curve seromyotomy with posterior truncal vagotomy ( ampt , n = 77 ) has been compared with truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty ( tvp , n = 69 ) in 146 patients with chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 7 years . the mean follow-up time was 4.5 years with a range of 2-7 years . one elderly patient died from a myocardial infarction in the tvp group . acid secretory inhibition in response to insulin and pentagastrin stimuli was equal in both groups , indicating a similar degree of vagal denervation . recurrent ulcers were more common after ampt ( five ) than tvp ( two ) ( p = 0.29 , n.s. ) . dumping and diarrhoea were significantly commoner ( p less than 0.001 ) after tvp , with 31 instances as opposed to eight with ampt . the mean operating time was increased by 6 min when ampt was performed rather than tvp . the results of this study have shown that ampt is associated with a lower incidence of dumping and diarrhoea and achieves better overall visick grading . however , continued monitoring is required to assess the long-term incidence of recurrent ulceration after this procedure . 
failure of nutritional recovery after total gastrectomy . malnutrition is reported to be an inevitable consequence of total gastrectomy , although there are few data to support this contention . six patients of median age 63 years underwent total gastrectomy for malignancy . at follow-up ( median 45 months , range 25-60 months ) each patient was clinically tumour-free and underwent dietary assessment , faecal fat and nitrogen measurement and routine haematological testing . protein and fat stores , measured by neutron activation analysis and the tritiated water dilution technique , were compared with the same measurements made before operation and with predicted values . mean ( s.d. ) dietary intake ( 2224 ( 381 ) kcal day-1 and 81 ( 15 ) g protein day-1 ) met the patients ' estimated requirements . mean ( s.d. ) serum albumin and faecal nitrogen values were normal but there was notable steatorrhoea ( 21 ( 17 ) g day-1 ) . body composition measurements revealed profound deficiencies of body-weight ( p less than 0.02 ) , protein ( p less than 0.01 ) and fat ( p less than 0.02 ) before operation which were not corrected by an apparently curative total gastrectomy ( p less than 0.05 ) , although further deterioration was prevented . 
single lumen ileum with myectomy : a possible alternative to the pelvic reservoir in restorative proctocolectomy . an alternative procedure to construction of a pelvic ileal reservoir was assessed which avoids the need for a pouch , while providing an adequate rectal substitute and good continence . thirty-six female adult beagles were allotted randomly to undergo total colectomy with ( a ) ileo-anal anastomosis alone , ( b ) ileo-anal anastomosis with two 15 cm myectomies , ( c ) ileo-anal anastomosis and myectomy with an ileo-ileal valve , or ( d ) ileo-anal anastomosis with a duplicated j pouch . the animals were studied before operation and at 4-weekly intervals for 20 weeks after operation . mortality rates were similar . ileal compliance was increased significantly by myectomy from 0.64 ml/mmhg ( median , interquartile range 0.49-0 .78 ) after ileo-anal anastomosis alone to 1.65 mmhg ( 1.16-1 .93 ) , p less than 0.01 , an increase which was maintained . ileal capacity was also increased both by myectomy and by the j pouch : ileo-anal anastomosis = 85 ml ( 75-100 ml ) , ileo-anal anastomosis and myectomy = 139 ml ( 116-156 ml ) , ileo-anal anastomosis and myectomy and ileo-ileal valve = 125 ml ( range 85-145 ml ) , ileo-anal anastomosis and j pouch = 130 ml ( range 75-165 ml ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . bowel function in the other three groups was markedly superior to ileo-anal anastomosis alone . mean transit time was significantly less after ileo-anal anastomosis , 5.2 h ( 2.6-8 .2 h ) than after both ileo-anal anastomosis and myectomy , 10.5 h ( 9.6-13 .9 h ) , p less than 0.05 and ileo-anal anastomosis and j pouch , 11.0 h ( 8.4-13 .0 h ) , p less than 0.05 , but addition of an ileo-ileal valve did not produce a further increase in transit time , 12.9 h ( range 10.5-14 .5 h ) , p = n.s. myectomy of single lumen ileum may be a useful alternative to a pelvic ileal reservoir in restorative proctocolectomy . 
elective resection for diverticular disease of the sigmoid colon . from 1966 to 1987 , 177 consecutive patients were operated on electively for diverticular disease of the sigmoid colon . the indications for surgery were : colovesical fistula ( n = 12 ) , suspicion of residual abscess ( n = 39 ) , two or more previous attacks of acute inflammation ( n = 52 ) , chronic symptoms ( n = 72 ) and suspicion of carcinoma ( n = 2 ) . an abscess was found at operation in 76 patients ( 43 per cent ) and this was extracolic with local peritonitis in 52 patients ( 29 per cent ) . an unsuspected abscess was found in 25 of the 72 patients operated on for chronic symptoms . colonic resection with primary anastomosis was performed in 95 per cent of the 177 patients and in 94 per cent of those 52 patients with an extracolic abscess . there were no postoperative deaths and no clinical anastomotic leakages . long-term results were very good in 85 per cent of the 177 patients and in 82 per cent of the 72 patients operated on for chronic symptoms . the results of this series suggest that a one-stage procedure can be safely performed with some technical precautions in most patients operated on electively for diverticular disease , even if an extracolic abscess is found . the good long-term results in patients operated on for chronic symptoms suggest that such symptoms should be taken into account with respect to surgical indications . 
survey of the use of thrombolysis for acute limb ischaemia in the uk and ireland . a total of 156 vascular surgeons from the uk and ireland responded to a postal questionnaire on the use of thrombolysis in acute limb ischaemia . almost half had used thrombolysis in the previous 12 months . low dose intra-arterial streptokinase ( 89 per cent ) was the regimen most frequently used , but 33 per cent had used intravenous streptokinase . detailed results for 103 patients ( limb salvage rate 60 per cent , amputation rate 35 per cent , mortality rate 5 per cent ) were similar to those of previously published reports . complications in most series were infrequent , but in the entire survey there were six bleeding-related deaths and one death from anaphylaxis . a total of 67 per cent of surgeons with working experience indicated that selected patients with acute arterial thromboses were most suitable for thrombolysis , particularly if there was no neurological deficit and no run-off for surgical bypass . distal or late emboli and graft occlusions were regarded as appropriate by some surgeons . this study demonstrated that many vascular surgeons currently use thrombolysis , although sparingly and in selected cases . patients with acute limb ischaemia should be managed by experienced vascular surgeons who are aware of the new therapeutic alternatives , an ideal supported by almost three-quarters of respondents to this survey . 
venous stasis and vein lumen changes during surgery the mechanisms underlying the development of postoperative deep vein thrombosis remain to be fully elucidated . previous studies have suggested that peroperative venous distension may be a factor associated with venous thromboembolism . in this study we have obtained high resolution ultrasound images of gastrocnemius and posterior tibial veins in 62 patients undergoing a range of general surgical procedures . from these we determined the changes in vein diameter occurring during the operative procedures , in response to induction of anaesthesia , and after completion of surgery . veins showed no evidence of dilatation in response to the induction of anaesthesia , but by the end of the operative procedure showed distension of 22-28 per cent . distension was most prominent in the gastrocnemius veins , and lesser distension was observed in the posterior tibial veins . in a series of patients who received an infusion of 1 litre of saline in addition to basal requirements , distension was 57 per cent compared with 22 per cent in the corresponding control group . intraoperative venous distension is associated with factors that lead to deep vein thrombosis and may be involved in the mechanisms which result in the commencement of deep vein thrombosis . 
surgical aspects of malaria . the spread of drug-resistant organisms and increased international travel makes malaria a disorder of ever-increasing importance . this report reviews those aspects of malaria of surgical relevance . the importance of the spleen in host defence against malaria and other infections makes splenic preservation desirable whenever possible after rupture of the spleen . tropical splenomegaly is caused by an abnormal immune response to malaria and is best managed medically . careful selection of blood donors is essential to prevent transfusion malaria , and routine antimalarial prophylaxis is indicated for blood recipients in many endemic areas . the risk of postoperative malaria may justify chemoprophylaxis in certain patients . 
pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy : an overview . pylorus preserving pancreatoduodenectomy ( pppd ) was reintroduced 12 years ago . since that time , over 400 patients have undergone pppd with approximately 41 per cent having chronic pancreatitis and 54 per cent having pancreatic and other periampullary malignancies . reported 5-year survivals in this latter group have been comparable to those achieved by the classic whipple procedure . the postoperative mortality rate in 339 reported patients has been 3.8 per cent . postoperative morbidity , including delayed gastric emptying , has been similar to that of the classic whipple operation . however , pppd has been associated with fewer late problems with dumping , diarrhoea , delayed gastric emptying ( 8.6 per cent ) , and marginal ulceration ( 3.6 per cent ) . moreover , most patients undergoing pppd have been able to return to their preoperative and preillness weight . the additional advantage of decreased operative time makes pppd an attractive alternative to the classic pancreatoduodenectomy . 
operative choledochoscopy : common bile duct exploration is incomplete without it . this paper reviews the reported experience of operative choledochoscopy . development of choledochoscopes to the currently available rigid and flexible instruments is described . the collected results of both rigid and flexible choledochoscopy are reported . retained stones occurred in 97 of 2712 stone-positive explorations with the rigid choledochoscope ( 3.6 per cent ) and in 35 of 1726 stone-positive explorations with the flexible choledochoscope ( 2.0 per cent ) . choledochoscopy should now be a mandatory part of common bile duct exploration . 
mucosal intussusception to avoid ascending cholangitis . many methods have been devised to prevent ascending cholangitis following kasai 's hepatic portoenterostomy for biliary atresia . to investigate the effectiveness of mucosal intussusception in preventing ascending cholangitis , 20 mongrel dogs were randomized to undergo roux-en-y cholecystjejunostomy and common bile duct ligation with or without mucosal intussusception . aeromonas hydrophila was instilled into the gastrointestinal tract . bacterial cultures were grown from samples taken from the gallbladders and lower jejunum , and blood chemistry and barium studies were performed . the barium studies showed satisfactory lack of reflux in all ten dogs with mucosal intussusception . only two of them had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder 3 days after bacterial instillation into the jejunum . all ten dogs in the control group had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder . our results showed that the mucosal intussusception group had a significantly lower rate of recovery of organisms from the gallbladder compared with the control group when the organisms were instilled into distal intestine ( p less than 0.05 ) . the method is worthy of clinical trial as a means of preventing or treating ascending cholangitis . 
treatment of patients with isolated axillary nodal metastases from an occult primary carcinoma consistent with breast origin . the records of 42 patients who had axillary metastases compatible with a clinically occult breast primary were reviewed . forty patients had mammography performed as part of their evaluations . mastectomy yielded the primary tumor in one of 13 patients ; biopsy yielded positive results in one of five . among the 29 patients who did not undergo mastectomy , 16 received breast irradiation , and 13 were simply observed for signs of the primary tumor . for the patients who did not undergo mastectomy , the 5-year actuarial risk for appearance of a primary was 17 % in the irradiated group versus 57 % in the nonirradiated group ( p = 0.06 ) . patterns of failure are correlated with stage and local and systemic therapy . the results affirm our belief that patients with axillary metastases histologically consistent with breast tumor should be treated identically to patients with similar nodal stages and proven breast primaries . 
myocarditis or acute myocardial infarction associated with interleukin-2 therapy for cancer . the hearts of eight patients aged 22 to 67 years ( mean , 41 years ) who died during or within 4 days of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) based immunotherapy for treatment of renal cell carcinoma or melanoma were studied at necropsy . death resulted from combined cardiorespiratory failure in two patients , sepsis in four patients , acute myocardial infarction in one patient , and myocarditis in one patient . transmural left ventricular necrosis was present in one of the two patients with significant atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing . noninfectious myocarditis was present in five patients : the inflammatory infiltrate was lymphocytic in four and composed of a mixture of eosinophils and lymphocytes in one . although treatment-related deaths associated with high-dose il-2 therapy are uncommon ( 1.5 % in 652 consecutive patients ) , the potential for significant myocardial ischemia or myocarditis exists , and careful monitoring for arrhythmias or myocardial failure is warranted . 
regional differences in the intranodal distribution of tumor cells . the intranodal distribution of tumor cells was examined in 103 mesenteric and 135 axillary nodes to determine the frequency of a circumferential type of distribution and its relationship , if any , to central necrosis . eighteen percent of the mesenteric nodes removed at surgery from patients with colon cancer contained a circumferential rim of viable tumor cells in an area corresponding wholly or in part to the normal location of the marginal sinus . in each case this rim of tumor cells surrounded a large central area of necrosis . in contrast , only one of the 135 axillary nodes removed from patients with breast cancer demonstrated this pattern . these findings suggest that by interrupting blood and lymph vessels , the circumferential spread of tumor cells underlies development of central necrosis . previously described structural dissimilarities between mesenteric and axillary nodes may explain the striking difference in incidence of this pattern in these nodes . 
flow cytometric dna analysis of parathyroid tumors . implication of aneuploidy for pathologic and biologic classification . the previous cytometric studies on parathyroid tumors have provided conflicting data regarding the relationship between dna content and histopathology , resulting from differences in technical methods and data analysis . this study measured nuclear dna of parathyroid tumors by flow cytometry in fresh material and determined whether dna aneuploidy really assists in making a pathologic diagnosis of carcinoma or not . from may 1987 through april 1989 , 65 consecutive patients operated on for primary hyperparathyroidism had dna analysis of the freshly excised parathyroid tumors . three of the patients had metastatic lesions of parathyroid carcinoma in the lung , cervical lymph nodes , and lung and mediastinal lymph nodes , respectively . pathologic classifications of the lesions from the other 62 patients were 54 adenomas , four carcinomas , and four hyperplasias . in all the latter patients , hyperplasia was associated with a multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome . unequivocal evidence of aneuploidy was found in all of the metastatic lesions and 60 % of the primary lesions of the carcinomas , in 9 % of the adenomas and in 50 % of the hyperplasias . therefore , parathyroid carcinomas were more apt to be aneuploid than were adenomas ( p = 0.0015 , both-sided testing ) . in each of the cases of aneuploid hyperplasia , a small aneuploid peak was found . the high incidence of aneuploidy in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 may indicate the presence of clonal heterogeneity of hyperplastic glands and the presence of an abnormal subset of cells that have malignant potential . cell distribution analysis did not provide any significant information beyond ploidy level . in conclusion , dna flow cytometric analysis of dna ploidy patterns is a valuable adjunct to the histopathologic diagnosis of parathyroid neoplasms . 
soft tissue sarcoma with additional anaplastic components . a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 27 cases . this clinicopathologic study concerns 27 cases of " dedifferentiated " soft tissue sarcoma ( dsts ) , including 14 liposarcomas , six leiomyosarcomas , five chondrosarcomas , and two rhabdomyosarcomas . in addition , the authors conducted an immunohistochemical survey of 23 cases and an electron microscopic examination of three . the findings were compared with observations of 32 cases of de novo malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( mfh ) . all tumors contained additional distinct anaplastic portions indistinguishable from mfh under conventional light microscopy , ultrastructurally , and in cases of immunoreactivity for alpha-1-antichymotrypsin and alpha-1-antitrypsin and on lectin histochemical findings for ricinus communis agglutinin and concanavalin agglutinin . the desmin reactivity present in anaplastic portions of 14 dsts and in eight de novo mfh is taken to mean that myofibroblasts are present in these tumors . the anaplastic components of dsts are presumed to represent the proliferation of another clone of undifferentiated mesenchymal cells that fail to differentiate along any specific lineage other than fibroblast-like cells , histiocyte-like cells , and myofibroblasts . nineteen patients died of tumor and four are alive and well 1.6 , 1.7 , 2.1 , and 5.2 years after the initial treatment , respectively . 
continuing care for cancer pain relief with oral morphine solution . one-year experience in a regional cancer center . this report is a prospective study of 223 patients with intractable cancer pain who were offered continuing care during the year 1988 at the pain relief unit , kidwai memorial institute of oncology , bangalore , india , with a minimum follow-up of 4 months and a maximum follow-up of 16 months . a high percentage of pain relief was attained within a mean duration of 4 days , which on follow-up was maintained at a steady level in most patients ( 91.1 % ) . oral morphine could not be continued in three patients because of vomiting . the main side effects noticed were nausea and vomiting , itching , and constipation . at any time during the first 140 days , only 30 % of patients had side effects and appropriate medication successfully managed these side effects . during the rest of the study period , the side effects were minimal . oral morphine used with proper adjuncts offers the best pain palliation in most patients , with minimal side effects . 
acute osteomyelitis in children . although relatively uncommon , osteomyelitis is an important disease because of the potential for chronicity or permanent sequelae . diagnostic methods , the spectrum of the disease , and clinical situations that merit special consideration are reviewed in this article . 
evidence that a receptor-operated event on the neutrophil mediates neutrophil accumulation in vivo . pretreatment of 111in-neutrophils with pertussis toxin in vitro inhibits their accumulation in vivo . the role of neutrophil chemoattractant receptors in neutrophil stimulation in vitro is well established , however , the precise mechanisms underlying local neutrophil accumulation at inflammatory sites in vivo have not been defined . a fundamental question that remains open is whether chemoattractants act on the endothelial cell or the neutrophil to initiate the process of neutrophil migration in vivo . to address this question we have investigated whether neutrophil accumulation in vivo can occur if chemoattractant receptor occupancy is uncoupled from neutrophil stimulation . for this purpose we have used pertussis toxin ( pt ) as the pharmacologic tool . we have investigated the effect of in vitro pretreatment of rabbit neutrophils with pt on their responses in vitro and on their accumulation in vivo . pretreatment of rabbit neutrophils with pt inhibited fmlp - and c5a - , but not pma - induced increases in cd18 expression , neutrophil adherence , and degranulation in vitro . this pretreatment procedure with pt inhibited the accumulation of radiolabeled neutrophils in vivo in response to intradermally injected fmlp , c5a , c5a des arg , leukotriene b4 , il-8 , and zymosan in rabbit skin . further , in contrast to the in vitro results , pt inhibited the pma-induced 111in-neutrophil accumulation in vivo . interestingly , pretreatment of neutrophils with pt also inhibited accumulation in response to intradermally injected il-1 , despite the reports that il-1 lacks neutrophil chemoattractant activity in vitro . although the experimental techniques used can not distinguish the different stages of neutrophil migration involved , these results suggest that the accumulation of neutrophils induced by local extravascular chemoattractants in vivo depends on a pertussis toxin-sensitive receptor operated event on the neutrophil itself . further , pma and il-1 may release secondary chemoattractants in vivo . 
inhibition of neutrophil migration by tumor necrosis factor . ex vivo and in vivo studies in comparison with in vitro effect . coincubation of neutrophils with tnf inhibited the chemoattractant-directed migration of neutrophils under agarose and enhanced their migration in the multiwell chemotaxis chamber . to assess the physiological significance of these differing in vitro tnf effects , ex vivo and in vivo investigations were performed using animal models . neutrophils from the peripheral blood of rabbits preadministered systemic tnf showed impaired ability to migrate toward chemoattractants in vitro . in addition , systemic tnf administration suppressed zymosan-activated plasma-induced local accumulation of leukocytes in mouse skin . the results indicate that circulating tnf may act as a suppressor for local inflammatory reaction . 
expression and characterization of tca3 : a murine inflammatory protein . tca3 is a cdna originally isolated from activated t cells . transcription of this gene has been shown to correlate with ag-induced cellular activation of both t cells and mast cells . based on the predicted amino acid sequence encoded by the cdna , we previously proposed that tca3 represents a cytokine . in this report we have used rdna technology to express tca3 in two mammalian cell lines . in both cases , tca3 was expressed as a secreted molecule with an apparent molecular mass of 16 kda . digestion of the ( rtca3 ) with the enzyme n-glycanase revealed that approximately 8 kda is caused by n-linked glycosylation . intradermal injection of rtca3 into mouse footpads resulted in a rapid swelling response . the sites of injection were characterized histologically by a local accumulation of neutrophils . these findings are discussed with particular attention to a family of related proteins , some of whose members also have inflammatory properties . 
il-2-pe40 prevents the development of tumors in mice injected with il-2 receptor expressing el4 transfectant tumor cells . a number of different immunotherapeutic reagents are currently being developed to target il-2r for the treatment of leukemia , graft rejection , and certain autoimmune diseases . previously , we have shown that il-2-pe40 , a chimeric protein composed of human il-2 linked to the n-terminus of a truncated form of pseudomonas exotoxin ( pe ) , could effectively kill a variety of cell lines in vitro expressing either low , intermediate , or high affinity il-2r . here , we demonstrate that il-2-pe40 can successfully retard or prevent the growth of a lethal ascites tumor or a solid tumor composed of el4j murine thymoma cells transfected with the p55 murine il-2r . the transfected line , el4j-3 .4 , expresses 1,000 to 3,000 high affinity il-2r . survival extension in the ascites model was achieved by initiating treatment either after 4 to 6 h or within 5 days post-tumor injection in both athymic nude and c57bl/6 mice . similarly , the growth of an aggressive s.c. solid tumor could also be inhibited . extension of survival was not achieved either by using the truncated toxin alone not attached to il-2 or by using an il-2-pe40asp553 mutant lacking a functional toxin . survival extension was not caused by il-2 activated nk or other host effector mechanisms as il-2-pe40 was unable to prevent the receptor-negative el4j parental line from forming a lethal ascites or a solid tumor . thus , il-2-pe40 is a potent , specific cytolytic reagent that may prove useful in the arsenal of anti-il-2r immunotherapeutics . 
cytokine regulation of il-1 beta gene expression in the human polymorphonuclear leukocyte . although recently polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmn ) have been identified as producers of il-1 beta in response to lps and granulocyte/monocyte colony stimulating factor , little is known regarding the ability of other cytokines to induce the production of il-1 beta in the pmn . inasmuch as il-1 and tnf have been shown to be important priming agents , as well as agents that induce migration of pmn , we investigated their effect on il-1 beta gene expression in human peripheral blood pmn . in the present study , we demonstrate that human peripheral blood pmn produce il-1 beta in response to il-1 alpha , il-1 beta , and tnf-alpha . control ( unstimulated ) human pmn had virtually undetectable levels of il-1 beta mrna . either il-1 beta or tnf , induced pmn to transiently express il-1 beta mrna with peak expression at 1 h , returning to untreated levels by 2 h. a dose response indicated that as little as 0.05 ng/ml of il-1 beta or tnf resulted in il-1 beta induction , with maximal effects at 1 ng/ml of il-1 beta and 5 ng/ml of tnf . il-1 alpha or il-1 beta exhibited similar dose responses in il-1 beta mrna induction . inasmuch as cytokines have been shown to have synergistic effects in cell function studies , we induced pmn with a combination of maximally effective doses of tnf plus il-1 beta . they demonstrated a cooperative effect on il-1 beta gene expression , in that mrna levels were sustained for three hours . il-1 beta ag expression , as measured by elisa , paralleled il-1 beta mrna expression with cell associated peak levels at 2 to 4 h. il-1 beta ag levels in pmn lysates and supernatants correlated with il-1 beta mrna levels , i.e. , tnf + il-1 greater than tnf greater than il-1 . thus , these studies represent the first demonstration of il-1 and tnf induction of il-1 beta gene expression in the pmn . furthermore , the time course of induction is unique to the pmn , with peak induction of mrna at 1 h , which is consistent with the short lived nature of these cells in inflammatory lesions . 
inhibition by dexamethasone of histamine production in allergic inflammation in rats . in an allergic inflammation model of air pouch type in rats , histamine level in the pouch fluid and histidine decarboxylase activity of pouch wall tissues in the postanaphylaxis phase were increased . although treatment with dexamethasone failed to inhibit histamine release from mast cells in the anaphylaxis phase , histamine production in the postanaphylaxis phase was inhibited dose dependently . histamine production-increasing activity in the pouch fluid collected 8 h after the ag challenge , which was estimated by an activity to stimulate histamine production by bone marrow cells , was decreased by the administration of dexamethasone at the time of the ag challenge . the addition of steroidal antiinflammatory drugs , dexamethasone , prednisolone , or hydrocortisone , into the incubation medium inhibited the pouch fluid-induced histamine production by bone marrow cells . hydrocortisone mesylate antagonized the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on histamine production by bone marrow cells . however , hydrocortisone mesylate failed to recover the decrease in histamine production-increasing activity of the pouch fluid collected from dexamethasone-treated rats . in addition , the dialyzed sample of pouch fluid obtained from dexamethasone-treated nonsensitized rats did not reduce the stimulated histamine production by the pouch fluid sample obtained from the sensitized rats . however , increase in histamine production of bone marrow cells stimulated by the pouch fluid was not inhibited by cyclosporin a that inhibited histamine production induced by con a. this observation indicates that the pouch fluid has no effect to induce production of the histamine production-increasing factor by bone marrow cells . consequently , it is suggested that dexamethasone inhibits not only the production of histamine production-increasing factor but also the response of histamine-producing cells to this factor . 
retroviral expression of transforming growth factor-alpha does not transform fibroblasts or keratinocytes . transforming growth factor alpha ( tgf alpha ) is a peptide so named because it helps to impart anchorage-independent growth to normal rat kidney ( nrk ) cells in vitro and is secreted by many rodent and human tumor cells . to directly investigate the transforming properties of this factor , we constructed a replication-defective murine retrovirus that expresses the human sequence coding for tgf alpha . infection of nih/3t3 cells with the tgf alpha retrovirus led to the integration of a transcriptionally active provirus and overexpression of biologically active tgf alpha , but failed to induce morphologic transformation . similarly , the tgf alpha retrovirus failed to induce morphologic transformation of five other types of rodent fibroblasts . we also investigated the effect of tgf alpha expression on the growth of balb/mk mouse keratinocytes , which require epidermal growth factor ( egf ) for proliferation . we show that exogenously added tgf alpha is an extremely potent mitogen for balb/mk cells . however , retroviral expression of tgf alpha in balb/mk cells failed to relieve dependence on exogenously added egf ( or tgf alpha ) for cell growth . these results suggest that overexpression of tgf alpha does not , by itself , transform rodent fibroblasts or keratinocytes . 
dna sequence analysis of three inhibitor-positive hemophilia b patients without gross gene deletion : identification of four novel mutations in factor ix gene . three hemophilia b patients with anti-factor ix antibodies who had no detectable gross deletion of the factor ix gene by southern blotting analysis were investigated at the molecular level . all eight exons , accompanied by their splicing junction sites and presumptive promoter regions of the factor ix gene in these patients ( total 5.5 kb in length ) were amplified with the use of the polymerase chain reaction , followed by complete nucleotide sequence analysis . three different types of novel single base substitutions and a 2 base-pair nucleotide deletion were identified . patient hb-5 had two point mutations in his factor ix gene . one was located at the promoter region at nucleotide -793 and the other ( c-to-t transition ) was found in exon vi of the gene changing gln-191 to a stop codon . patient hb-6 had a point mutation ( g-to-a ) in the splice acceptor site , which interrupted the normal splicing of the last intron g. a small two-nucleotide deletion in exon iii was detected in patient hb-7 and yielded frameshifted amino acids and terminated by a stop codon . these resuslts suggest that not only the gross gene deletion of factor ix gene but also the point mutations or small nucleotide deletion that may cause the interruption of coding informations for mature protein synthesis is predisposed to development of anti-factor ix inhibitors in patients with hemophilia b. 
use of ektacytometry to determine red cell susceptibility to oxidative stress . to define a more sensitive and reliable method to determine changes in the overall cellular characteristics of erythrocytes after oxidative damage , we used a viscodiffractometric method ( ektacytometry ) to measure the effect of oxidative stress . erythrocytes were incubated in the presence of hydrogen peroxide , t-butyl hydroperoxide , or cumene hydroperoxide in phosphate buffer . this treatment resulted in decreased cellular deformability of the intact erythrocytes . in addition , deformability and fragility measurements of the erythrocyte ghost membranes indicated an increased membrane dynamic rigidity and altered-mechanical stability as a consequence of oxidant stress . these changes were observed before the onset of hemolysis . the observed decrease in deformability was accompanied by oxidation of hemoglobin , alterations of membrane proteins , and lipid peroxidation . to continuously measure the time course of the decrease in deformability in intact erythrocytes under oxidative stress , a new ektacytometric method was developed . erythrocytes were oxidatively challenged within the viscometer at a constant osmolality and shear stress . the change in deformability was monitored and a typical range was defined for erythrocytes from normal individuals . comparison of erythrocytes from patients with sickle cell disease with those from normal individuals demonstrated a higher susceptibility of sickle red cells toward oxidative stress . 
headache : a marker of depression patients who presented with a chief complaint of headache in the outpatient family practice setting were found to have a high prevalence of depression ( 63 % ) by the zung self-rating depression scale ( sds ) index . a statistically significant relationship was found between the frequency of headaches ( p = .03 ) with level of depression . in fact , 74 % of patients with headaches recurring almost every day had a clinically significant depression diagnosed as defined by the zung sds score . the zung sds score also correlated with the length of time that the problem of headache existed ( p less than .05 ) . item analysis of the individual 20-item depression score revealed that four questions accounted for 93 % of the variance . this analysis suggests that shorter , more abbreviated screening questions could be developed and refined in the future for use by the busy clinician . headache is an important marker for depression in the primary care setting . it can be inferred from this study that the clinician may need to focus more on treating the entity of depression than on treating just the symptom of headache . 
botulinum toxin treatment of cranial-cervical dystonia , spasmodic dysphonia , other focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm . in the past five years , 477 patients with various focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm received 3,806 injections of botulinum a toxin for relief of involuntary spasms . a definite improvement with a global rating greater than or equal to 2 on a 0-4 scale , was obtained in all 13 patients with spasmodic dysphonia , 94 % of 70 patients with blepharospasm , 92 % of 13 patients with hemifacial spasm , 90 % of 195 patients with cervical dystonia , 77 % of 22 patients with hand dystonia , 73 % of 45 patients with oromandibular dystonia , and in 90 % of 21 patients with other focal dystonia who had adequate follow up . while the average duration of maximum improvement lasted about 11 weeks after an injection ( range seven weeks in patients with hand dystonia to 15 weeks in patients with hemifacial spasm ) , some patients benefited for over a year . only 16 % of the 941 treatment visits with follow up were not successful . except for transient focal weakness , there were very few complications or systemic effects attributed to the injections . this study supports the conclusion that botulinum toxin injections are a safe and effective therapy for patients with focal dystonia and hemifacial spasm . 
vesicular changes in the myopathies of aids . ultrastructural observations and their relationship to zidovudine treatment . six patients with aids and aids related complex ( arc ) who developed neuromuscular symptoms associated with vesicular changes in muscle fibres are reported . two patients in the advanced stages of aids , who did not receive zidovudine , developed proximal limb weakness and wasting : both had a necrotising myopathy with an unusual segmental vesicular change of myofibres . there were numerous vesicles 0.1 to 2 microns in diameter produced by dilatations of the sarcoplasmic reticulum in fibres depleted of myofibrils . four patients developed a myopathy while receiving zidovudine for aids . one of these had an inflammatory myopathy which showed the development of vesicular change due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria . the three other patients with arc developed muscle pains or weakness and elevated serum ck while on zidovudine . these patients also showed vesicular changes due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria associated with disruption of sarcomeres and the presence of cytoplasmic bodies . the muscular symptoms resolved when ziduvodine was stopped and repeat biopsy in one case revealed no abnormalities . 
hemiparetic multiple sclerosis . eight patients are described who presented with hemiparesis which involved the face in seven . six of the eight subsequently developed clinically definite multiple sclerosis and in the remaining two patients multiple sclerosis was the likely diagnosis . magnetic resonance imaging gave useful information about the site of the lesions responsible for the presenting syndrome and provided additional information in support of a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis . 
extradural implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators . a technique for extradural deafferentation of the s2 to s5 segments and extradural implantation of stimulating electrodes is described , and its application to twelve patients with spinal cord lesions is reported . nine patients use their implants for micturition , and seven are fully continent . the advantages and disadvantages of this technique compared with the more usual intrathecal procedure are discussed . 
the treatment of gilles de la tourette syndrome by limbic leucotomy . a patient with gilles de la tourette syndrome and severe self-injurious compulsions who had failed to respond to drug treatment and behavioural therapy obtained a complete and sustained resolution of his destructive behaviour and improvement in his tics following bilateral limbic leucotomy . 
stiffman syndrome : a rare paraneoplastic disorder ? an unusual case of the stiffman syndrome , associated with an oat cell carcinoma of the bronchus , is reported . pathological examination showed that it was due to an encephalomyelitis similar to that seen in paraneoplastic disorders . this suggests that atypical cases of the stiffman syndrome may occasionally be paraneoplastic . 
the use of risk factors in medical diagnosis : opportunities and cautions . we discuss in this paper the extent to which disease risk factors may assist in the diagnostic process . we caution that disease risk factors need not be very sensitive or specific . risk factor specificity and sensitivity may be further reduced if , in the former case , the risk factor is related to other illnesses having the same clinical presentation as the disease of interest , or if , in the latter case , the risk factor disappears with the onset of illness . we illustrate these points in a discussion of the utility of smoking as a diagnostic test for malignancy in two clinical situations , the patient with asymptomatic microscopic hematuria and the patient with a solitary pulmonary nodule . risk factors hold great promise as aids to medical diagnosis , as this information is readily available to clinicians at little or no cost . clinicians , however , should exercise caution when using risk factors of unproven diagnostic utility in medical diagnosis , as their presence may have little or no effect on disease probability . 
assessing the clinical effectiveness of preventive maneuvers : analytic principles and systematic methods in reviewing evidence and developing clinical practice recommendations . a report by the canadian task force on the periodic health examination . this paper examines a process for evaluating clinical effectiveness and developing recommendations in which systematic methods are used to review evidence from published clinical research and to reach sound conclusions about appropriate medical policy . the methodology addresses four important components of the analytic process : ( 1 ) the criteria that must be satisfied for a clinical practice to be considered effective ; ( 2 ) proper methods for reviewing evidence from published clinical research to determine whether a clinical practice meets these criteria ( including methods for performing comprehensive literature reviews , for judging the quality of individual studies , and for synthesizing or pooling the results of multiple studies ) ; ( 3 ) theoretical and practical concerns in translating the results of the scientific review into sound clinical practice recommendations ; and ( 4 ) the importance of documentation , guidelines , and other safeguards to minimize the effect the reviewers themselves have on the objectivity and consistency of the analytic methods . 
the relationship of headache symptoms with severity and duration of attacks . efforts to develop clinically useful headache classification schemes have generally focused on linking specific symptom groupings with specific headache subtypes . an alternative conceptual approach , the " severity model " of headache , considers a continuum of headache ranging from mild to severe forms with specific headache subtypes distinguished by level of severity rather than unique constellations of symptoms . a population-based telephone interview was carried out among 10,169 subjects aged 12-29 to estimate the prevalence of serious headaches and better characterize symptoms that accompany headache attacks . in an analysis of frequency of occurrence , pain and duration of recent ( within 4 weeks prior to interview ) headache attacks , the data revealed that common symptoms ( such as forehead pain and pain in the back of the head , neck and shoulders ) were reported frequently , but headaches with these symptoms were generally characterized by low levels of pain and short duration . although not an original study objective , the data were analyzed to determine whether distinct symptom constellations could be identified or whether symptoms overlapped between headache types . symptoms of migraine were frequently experienced concomitant with tension-type symptoms ; the resultant headaches were usually characterized as moderate in intensity . in contrast , symptoms usually associated with migraine in the absence of concomitant tension-type symptoms were infrequently experienced , but resulted in headaches causing the greatest disability . the data provide some support for the severity model of headache . 
intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity . autologous lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 ( ril-2 ) were administered intraperitoneally ( ip ) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space . ten patients had ovarian cancer , 12 had colorectal cancer , and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma . all ovarian cancer patients , three of twelve colorectal cancer patients , and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy . patients received il-2 100,000 u/kg every 8 hours intravenously ( iv ) for 3 days , and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days . lak cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in il-2 for 7 days and were then administered ip daily for 5 days through a tenckhoff catheter ( davol , inc , cranston , ri ) together with il-2 25,000 u/kg ip every 8 hours . all but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy . toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension , fever , chills , rash , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and distension , diarrhea , oliguria , fluid retention , thrombocytopenia , and minor elevations of liver function tests ; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of il-2 . one patient had a grand mal seizure , and one suffered a colonic perforation ; these were felt to be treatment-related . ip fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients . two of 10 ( 20 % ) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 ( 42 % ) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy - or laparotomy-documented partial responses . we conclude that lak cells and ril-2 can be administered ip to cancer patients , resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy . further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of ip fibrosis and with lower ip il-2 doses is justified by these initial results . 
interleukin-2 therapy in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma : a phase ii study . forty-seven patients with metastatic malignant melanoma were treated with two 5-day cycles of 100,000 u/kg recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) intravenously ( iv ) every 4 hours separated by 1 week . this dose and schedule of il-2 were identical to those used in a previous combined il-2 and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell phase ii clinical trial of the il-2 / lak working group . patient eligibility criteria , and clinical management guidelines were similar to those used in the previous trial . forty-six patients were assessable for response . objective responses were observed in 10 of 46 patients ( two complete responses [ crs ] , eight partial responses [ prs ] ) or 22 % with responses occurring in lung and liver as well as lymph nodes and subcutaneous sites . the median response duration was 8 months . toxicity was significant ; three patients developed myocardial infarction , and one patient died during therapy . overall the toxicity and response rate for single-agent il-2 are similar to that observed with il-2 administered in combination with lak cells in the previous trial . these results suggest that single-agent therapy with il-2 when administered in this schedule has significant antimelanoma activity in humans , and that lak cells generated from peripheral blood add little to the antimelanoma activity of this dose and schedule of il-2 . 
phase i study of interleukin-2 and interferon alfa-2a as outpatient therapy for patients with advanced malignancy . twenty-six patients were treated in this phase i study with the combination of interleukin-2 ( il2 ) administered as a continuous infusion and interferon alfa-2a ( ifn alpha-2a ) administered intramuscularly to patients in an outpatient setting . the maximum-tolerated dose of both agents given as outpatient therapy was 2 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2 days 1 to 5 of il2 and 9 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2 days 1 , 3 , and 5 of ifn alpha-2a for 4 consecutive weeks . a 2 - to 4-week rest period was permitted after each 4 weeks of treatment . fatigue was the treatment-limiting toxicity , and serious clinical or laboratory abnormalities occurred infrequently during this study . patients with colon cancer metastatic to the liver tolerated treatment worse than patients with other tumors . twelve of the 15 patients with renal cell cancer were assessable for response determinations . of these 12 patients , three exhibited complete tumor regression , three have had partial objective regression , and three patients experienced stabilization of rapidly progressive disease . this therapy appears to be well tolerated in an outpatient treatment setting and shows significant activity against advanced renal cell cancer . 
multimodal therapy for the management of primary , nonmetastatic ewing 's sarcoma of bone : a long-term follow-up of the first intergroup study . a total of 342 previously untreated eligible children were entered into the first intergroup ewing 's sarcoma study ( iess ) between may 1973 and november 1978 . in group i institutions , patients were randomized between treatment 1 ( radiotherapy to primary lesion plus cyclophosphamide , vincristine , dactinomycin , and adriamycin [ doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ] [ vac plus adr ] ) or treatment 2 ( same as treatment 1 without adr ) , and group ii institutions randomized patients between treatment 2 or treatment 3 ( same as treatment 2 plus bilateral pulmonary radiotherapy [ vac plus bpr ] ) . the percentages of patients relapse-free and surviving ( rfs ) at 5 years for treatments 1 , 2 , and 3 were 60 % , 24 % , and 44 % , respectively . there was strong statistical evidence of a significant advantage in rfs for treatment 1 ( vac plus adr ) versus 2 ( vac alone ) ( p less than .001 ) and 3 ( p less than .05 ) and also of treatment 3 versus 2 ( p less than .001 ) . similar significant results were observed with respect to overall survival . patients with disease at pelvic sites have significantly poorer survival at 5 years than those with disease at nonpelvic sites ( 34 % v 57 % ; p less than .001 ) . among pelvic cases , there was no evidence of differing survival by treatment ( p = .81 ) , but among nonpelvic cases , there was strong evidence of differing survival by treatment ( p less than .001 ) . the overall percentage of patients developing metastatic disease was 44 % ; the percentages by treatments 1 , 2 , and 3 were 30 % , 72 % , and 42 % , respectively . the overall incidence of local recurrence was 15 % , and there was no evidence that local recurrence rate differed by treatment . patient characteristics related to prognosis , both with respect to rfs and overall survival experience , were primary site ( nonpelvic patients were most favorable ) and patient age ( younger patients were more favorable ) . 
antagonism of serotonin s3 receptors with ondansetron prevents nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy regimens the control of nausea and emesis in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy poses a significant management problem . in this randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study , we evaluated the effect of serotonin s3 receptor blockade with ondansetron ( gr 38032f ) on the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy . cyclophosphamide was given in doses of 500 to 600 mg/m2 and ondansetron as three intravenous ( iv ) doses of 0.15 mg/kg . most patients had breast cancer . cyclophosphamide was given in combination with doxorubicin ( 65 % of patients ) or with fluorouracil ( 85 % of patients : 50 % with adriamycin [ doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ] and 35 % with methotrexate ) . all placebo-treated patients experienced vomiting , whereas 70 % of patients treated with ondansetron did not vomit ( p = .008 ) . median nausea scores were 8 mm on ondansetron and 65 mm on placebo ( p less than .001 ) . seventy percent of patients treated with ondansetron retained their normal appetite , compared with 10 % of placebo patients . adverse events occurred in six placebo patients and one ondansetron patient . diarrhea and headache were the most common events , both occurring more frequently in the placebo group . there were no extrapyramidal reactions , and the only significant biochemical change occurred in a placebo-treated patient . these results suggest that serotonin s3 receptor antagonists represent a novel , effective , and safe mode of therapy for nausea and emesis induced by cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapies . in addition , our observations are compatible with the view that serotonin , acting on s3 receptors , mediates the nausea and emesis occurring after cyclophosphamide chemotherapy . 
initial ct findings in 753 patients with severe head injury . a report from the nih traumatic coma data bank . in this prospective multicenter study , the authors have examined data derived from the initial computerized tomography ( ct ) scans of 753 patients with severe head injury . when the ct findings were related to abnormal intracranial pressure and to death , the most important characteristics of the scans were : midline shift : compression or obliteration of the mesencephalic cisterns : and the presence of subarachnoid blood . diffuse hemispheric swelling was also found to be associated with an early episode of either hypoxia or hypotension . 
monosomy 22 in rhabdoid or atypical tumors of the brain . cytogenetic studies of three rare childhood brain tumors were performed . two children presented with pure rhabdoid tumors . the third child had a tumor composed of a mixture of rhabdoid elements with neuroepithelial , epithelial , and mesenchymal tissue - an atypical teratoid tumor . all three tumors demonstrated monosomy 22 as the only cytogenetic abnormality . the cytogenetic findings suggest that loss of a gene or genes on chromosome 22 may be involved in the initiation or progression of these malignant tumors . further studies on additional fresh tumor specimens are warranted ; however , it is possible that cytogenetic studies may be used as an additional means of diagnosing rhabdoid or atypical teratoid tumors of the brain . 
postlaminectomy ossified extradural pseudocyst . case report . a large ossified spurious meningocele accompanied by recurrent lumbar disc herniation occurred 7 years after posterior intervention for laminectomy and discectomy in a 53-year-old man . the cyst wall , histologically composed of mature bone tissue , was sparsely covered with connective tissue and lined with fibrocyte - or fibroblast-like cells on the inside . the ossified pseudocyst was presumed to have originated from a minute defect in the dura mater which occurred at the time of the first operation . 
disturbances in the cerebral perfusion of human immune deficiency virus-1 seropositive asymptomatic subjects : a quantitative tomography study of 18 cases . quantitative measurements of cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) by xenon-133 ( 133xe ) tomography , together with magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , electroencephalography ( eeg ) , psychometric tests , and laboratory analyses were performed on 18 human immunodeficiency virus 1 ( hiv-1 ) seropositive asymptomatic subjects . abnormalities of cerebral perfusion were observed in 16 cases ( 88 % ) . these abnormalities were particularly frequent in the frontal regions ( 77 % of cases ) . mri demonstrated leucoencephalopathy in only two cases . eeg showed only induced diffuse abnormalities in two cases . psychometric tests showed restricted moderate disturbances in 55 % of patients . these disturbances mostly concerned those sectors involved in cognitive functions and memorization . these results indicate that quantitative measurements of cbf by 133xe-spect is capable of detecting abnormalities of cerebral perfusion at a very early stage ( phase ii ) of hiv-1 infection . these abnormalities are indications of disturbances resulting from unidentified metabolic or vascular lesions . this technique appears to be superior to mri at this stage of the disease 's development . it could provide objective information leading to earlier treatment , and prove useful in evaluating potential antiviral chemotherapy . 
hmpao-spect imaging resembling alzheimer-type dementia in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes ( melas ) . single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) of the brain using hexamethyl propylene amine oxime ( hmpao ) was performed in a 37-year-old patient suffering from mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes ( melas ) . reduced blood flow was observed bilaterally in the parieto-occipital regions ( resembling alzheimer type dementia ) and in the right parietal lobe . 
effects of inflammation and copper intake on rat liver and erythrocyte cu-zn superoxide dismutase activity levels . stress such as inflammation produces an acute phase response that includes elevated levels of ceruloplasmin , the main copper component of plasma . inflammatory effects on cellular copper enzyme activity levels are largely unknown . cu-zn superoxide dismutase ( sod ) activities in liver , the main site of ceruloplasmin secretion , decreased with turpentine-induced inflammation ( 0.1 ml , intramuscular , leg ) in rats fed any of three copper levels ( adequate = 6 mg/kg , marginal = 2.5 mg/kg and deficient less than 0.5 mg/kg ) . ceruloplasmin activities rose significantly with inflammation in the adequate and marginal groups but not in the deficient animals . hepatic cu-zn sod immunoreactive protein levels were unaffected by copper status or inflammatory state . erythrocyte cu-zn sod activities were influenced by dietary copper but not inflammation . an additional group of rats fed 15 mg copper/kg did not show a turpentine-induced decrease in liver cu-zn activity levels . inflammatory effects on other copper enzyme activities did occur as evidenced by increases in ceruloplasmin and decreases in serum extracellular sod . in conclusion , an acute phase response in rats increased the amount of dietary copper required to maintain hepatic cu-zn sod activity at levels equal to those of nonstressed , copper-adequate rats . rat erythrocyte cu-zn sod activities provided a blood measurement reflective of copper intake with or without stress , but these values did not reflect decreases in liver cu-zn sod activities after 3 d of inflammation . 
organ hypertrophy and responses of colon microbial populations of growing swine to high dietary protein . thirty-two castrated male crossbred growing pigs ( average initial wt 26.9 kg ) were used to determine the effect of a high level of dietary protein ( 37 % ) compared with a normal level of protein ( 15 % ) on enterobacteria and campylobacter sp . inhabitation in the large intestine and on visceral organ hypertrophy and the interrelationships between these two factors . pigs were kept in pairs ( eight pens of two pigs/diet ) and fed their respective diets and libitum . eight pigs ( two pens of two pigs fed each diet ) were killed at wk 4 , 8 , 12 and 16 without fasting . fecal samples were obtained every 2 wk from animals scheduled for necropsy at 16 wk , and colon contents were obtained from all pigs at necropsy ; samples were enumerated individually for enterobacteria and campylobacter sp . weights of heart , lungs , liver , kidneys , perirenal fat and empty stomach , small intestine and large intestine were recorded at necropsy . stomach , cecum and proximal colon were sectioned for histopathologic examination . daily body weight gain was depressed by high dietary protein , but liver and kidneys were heavier in the high protein group than in controls at each time interval . mild lymphoid hyperplasia of peyer 's patches in the small intestine in some pigs in both groups was indicative of antigenic stimulation but not of pathologic significance . there was no effect of diet on counts of enterobacteria or campylobacter sp . in feces or colon contents during the 16-wk experiment . we conclude that the hypertrophic response of the tissues of growing pigs to high dietary protein is not the result of the presence of campylobacter sp . or enterobacteria in the colon contents . 
a prospective evaluation of the effectiveness of temporomandibular joint arthroscopy . this is a prospective study to evaluate therapeutic arthroscopy for internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) . fifty-nine patients with 76 abnormal joints were evaluated preoperatively for pain , noise , maximal incisal opening ( mio ) , and deviation on opening . preoperative and postoperative magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) scans were obtained for 29 joints . patients were treated by superior joint arthroscopy , lysis of adhesions , lavage , and steroid injection , along with preoperative and postoperative splint and physiotherapy . pain , noise , and motion were evaluated at three time periods : 1 ) early ( 10 to 30 days ) ; 2 ) intermediate ( 1 to 6 months ) ; and 3 ) late ( greater than 6 months ) . at early , intermediate , and late follow-up , increase in mio was statistically significant ( p less than .05 ) . noise did not return in the majority of patients . disc position , evaluated by mri , did not appear to change in 25 of 29 joints and did not correlate with clinical outcome . the results of this study indicate that tmj arthroscopy is effective in reducing pain and increasing motion in patients with tmj internal derangement . 
morbidity associated with incompletely erupted third molars in the line of mandibular fractures . a retrospective analysis of 105 mandibular fractures associated with incompletely erupted third molars was undertaken . it was found that there was no difference in the rates of complication if the teeth were retained or extracted , or if an open or closed reduction was performed . the combination of tooth retention with open reduction , however , shows a trend toward being the treatment most prone to postoperative complications . 
assessment of proplast-teflon disc replacements [ published erratum appears in j oral maxillofac surg 1991 feb ; 49 ( 2 ) :220 ] this retrospective study reports the findings in the follow-up of 31 temporomandibular joints in which proplast-teflon ( vitek inc , houston , tx ) replacements were used . among the problems noted were pain , malocclusion , restricted opening , and degenerative changes in the condyle and fossa . 
factors associated with soft - and hard-tissue compromise of endosseous implants . this prospective analysis identifies factors associated with endosseous implant removal as well as factors associated with implant morbidity resulting in nonscheduled patient visits . treatment of the latter conditions is discussed . the most important factors identified for implant success were surgery without compromise in technique , placing implants into sound bone , avoiding thin bone or implant dehiscence at the time of implant placement , avoiding premature implant exposure during the healing period , establishing a balanced restoration , and insuring appropriate follow-up hygiene care . in the posterior mandible , the presence of keratinized gingiva was strongly correlated with optimal soft - and hard-tissue health . 
an improved technique for development of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap . the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap is the most commonly employed muscle skin transfer used in soft-tissue reconstruction of defects of the upper neck and jaw region . this article presents conceptual and technical changes in the development of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap that preserve a greater vascular pedicle and enhance the flap 's arc of rotation . data from 54 consecutive cases using this modified approach show a reduction in complications , a greater range of use , and consistent healing in radiated and nonradiated tissues without requiring sectioning or removing the clavicle or causing significant chest deformities . these modifications have produced a more predictable transfer compared with other reported techniques . 
detection of human papillomavirus-genomic dna in oral epithelial dysplasias , oral smokeless tobacco-associated leukoplakias , and epithelial malignancies . human papillomavirus ( hpv ) is an infectious agent that is increasingly associated with mucosal cancers , in particular cancer of the cervix . the present investigation was undertaken in an attempt to determine whether hpv could be easily detected in biopsies of oral tissues , specifically oral squamous cell carcinomas , oral epithelial dysplasias , smokeless tobacco keratoses , verrucous hyperplasia , and verrucous carcinoma . in situ dna hybridization methods were used to isolate specific hpv genomes . among 100 instances of benign leukoplakia , only 4 % of non-tobacco-related and 10 % of smokeless tobacco-related lesions harbored viral sequences . we were able to detect viral sequences in dysplastic lesions 3 % of the time . alternatively , 17 % and 20 % of the verrucous hyperplasias and verrucous carcinomas were positive for viral nucleic acids . six percent of the squamous cell carcinomas harbored hpv . on the basis of these findings , it is concluded that hpv of known genotype can be identified in oral premalignant and malignant neoplasms . 
normalization of plasma arginine vasopressin concentrations when children with meningitis are given maintenance plus replacement fluid therapy we hypothesized that plasma arginine vasopressin ( avp ) concentrations in children with meningitis are appropriate for the children 's degree of hypovolemia , even though the concentrations were higher than expected for the serum osmolality . a randomized study was conducted to compare the effect on plasma avp concentrations of giving maintenance fluid requirements plus replacement of any deficit versus restricting fluids to two thirds of maintenance requirements for 24 hours . plasma avp concentrations and serum osmolality were measured before fluid therapy was begun and again after 24 hours . nineteen children , 2 months to 17 years of age , were studied ; 13 had bacterial meningitis ( 12 with haemophilus influenzae type b ) . ten children ( seven with bacterial meningitis ) received a mean of 1.42 times the calculated maintenance fluid requirements , and nine ( six with bacterial meningitis ) were restricted to a mean of 0.65 times maintenance . children in the maintenance group also received significantly more sodium ( mean = 6.3 meq/kg/24 hr ) than children in the fluid-restricted group ( mean = 2.0 meq/kg/24 hr ) . the two groups were comparable for plasma avp concentration and serum osmolality before fluid therapy was begun . the plasma avp concentration was significantly lower after 24 hours of maintenance plus replacement fluids than after fluid restriction ( p = 0.005 ) , and the change in avp concentration correlated with the amount of sodium given ( p less than 0.02 ) . this study supports the hypothesis that serum avp concentrations are elevated in patients with meningitis because of hypovolemia and become normal when sufficient sodium is given to facilitate reabsorption of water by the proximal tubule of the kidney . patients with meningitis can be given maintenance plus replacement fluids but should be monitored for the development of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone . 
growth and neuroendocrine dysfunction in children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome to assess whether neuroendocrine dysfunction is present in children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and growth failure , we evaluated the thyroid , adrenal , and growth hormone-insulin-like growth factor i ( igf-1 ) axes in nine children with aids and failure to thrive . basal thyroid-stimulating hormone , free thyroxine , and triiodothyronine levels were normal in eight of the nine children and indicated primary hypothyroidism in one child ; thyroxine levels were elevated in four and normal in five children . thyroxine-binding globulin levels were elevated in all children . serial measurements of thyroid-stimulating hormone , made hourly from 2 to 6 pm and from 10 pm to 2 am , revealed a flat diurnal rhythm of thyroid-stimulating hormone in six children , which may indicate early central hypothyroidism , and a normal nocturnal rise in the remaining three children . basal plasma corticotropin and aldosterone levels were normal in all children , plasma renin levels were normal in three and elevated in six children , and cortisol levels were normal or elevated in all children . corticotropin-stimulated cortisol levels exceeded 500 nmol/l ( 18 micrograms/dl ) in all children except one , who was receiving treatment with ketoconazole . thus adrenocortical function appeared to be grossly intact . the peak growth hormone responses to provocative testing was normal ( greater than 7 ng/ml ) in eight children and low in one child . the plasma level of insulin-like growth factor i was normal in eight of the nine children and low in one child . we conclude that growth failure in children with aids does not usually result from a recognized endocrine cause and that adrenal function is usually normal . however , endocrine deficiency may contribute to morbidity in some children with aids . 
mean arterial blood pressure changes in premature infants and those at risk for intraventricular hemorrhage . bedside microcomputer-derived , minute-to-minute mean arterial pressure ( map ) values during the first 48 hours of life were studied in 100 preterm babies with birth weight less than or equal to 1500 gm . in those babies ( n = 72 ) with no periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage ( pv-ivh ) or with grade 1 pv-ivh , the map values increased during the study period , with minute-to-minute variation and interval undulation . the map values in those with birth weight greater than 1000 gm were higher than in those of lower birth weight . infants in whom grades 2 to 4 pv-ivh developed ( n = 28 ) had consistently lower map values during the study period . minute-to-minute variability , expressed as the average of the coefficients of variation at 15-minute intervals , did not differ between birth weight groups , nor did they differ between the pv-ivh group and their matched control subjects . however , those with pv-ivh spent a greater percentage of time , with a coefficient of variation greater than or equal to 13 % or less than 3 % , than their matched control subjects spent ( p less than 0.005 ) . this study provides reference data for map changes in premature babies . the observed map changes in those with pv-ivh lend support to a significant role for map alterations in the pathogenesis of pv-ivh . 
measurement of progressive cerebral ventriculomegaly in infants after grades iii and iv intraventricular hemorrhages . to develop guidelines that might help predict prospectively which infants with severe intraventricular hemorrhage ( ivh ) would require intervention , we obtained serial cranial sonograms to measure the rate of growth of cerebral ventricular volumes in 48 preterm infants with and without ivh . the infants were divided into three groups : ( 1 ) those with no ivh ( 22 infants ) , ( 2 ) those with ivh with acute ventricular dilation ( 13 infants ) , and ( 3 ) those with ivh with progressive ventricular dilation requiring intervention ( 13 infants ) . the decision to intervene because of progressive ventricular dilation was based on clinical criteria and the subjective assessment of increasing ventricular size on weekly cranial sonograms . the rate of cerebral ventricular volume growth in infants with ivh who needed intervention was greater ( 4.2 + / - 3.3 ml/day ) than that in infants without ivh ( 0.0 + / - 0.1 ml/day ; p less than 0.001 ) and in infants with ivh and acute ventricular dilation ( 0.0 + / - 0.2 ml/day ; p less than 0.001 ) . using these data , we generated guidelines for predicting prospectively which infants with ivh and ventricular dilation will need intervention for posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus . the guidelines were then confirmed prospectively in 10 infants . 
nebulized albuterol in acute bronchiolitis . in a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial , 40 infants between 6 weeks and 24 months of age who had a first episode of wheezing and other signs and symptoms of bronchiolitis were randomly assigned to receive either nebulized albuterol ( 0.15 mg/kg/dose ) or placebo ( saline solution ) for two administrations 1 hour apart . the albuterol therapy resulted in a significantly greater improvement in the accessory muscle score ( decreases 0.70 vs decreases 0.30 ; p = 0.03 ) , oxygen saturation ( increases 0.71 % vs decreases 0.47 % ; p = 0.01 ) after one dose , and in the accessory muscle score ( decreases 0.86 vs decreases 0.37 ; p = 0.02 ) , respiratory rate ( decreases 19.6 % vs decreases 8.0 % ; p = 0.016 ) , and oxygen saturation ( increases 0.76 % vs decreases 0.79 % ; p = 0.015 ) after two doses of the drug . the response to therapy was similar in infants younger and those older than 6 months of age . the heart rate rose slightly more in the albuterol group ( increases 7.76 from baseline ) versus the placebo group ( decreases 6.79 ) . there were no other side effects of the treatment . of the 34 children from whom nasal specimens were obtained by swab for viral identification , 24 had positive test results ( 21 for respiratory syncytial virus , 1 for parainfluenza , 1 for paramyxovirus , and 1 for influenza a ) . we conclude that nebulized albuterol constitutes a safe and effective treatment of infants with bronchiolitis . 
urinary tract infection in women . current role of single-dose therapy . administration of a single dose of an antimicrobial agent is acceptable therapy for women with uncomplicated lower urinary tract infections . there is adequate information in the literature to support the clinical use of single-dose therapy , although there is still a need for further , well-designed , sufficiently large studies that compare single-dose therapy to abbreviated-course ( 3-day ) and traditional ( 7 - to 14-day ) therapy . 
mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome with splenosis . a case report . this is the first reported case of simultaneously occurring pelvic splenosis and mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome . no other congenital or anatomic abnormalities were observed in the patient , and she had no history of abdominal trauma or surgery . endometriosis was suspected initially during laparoscopy for pelvic pain . after tissue removal at laparotomy , the histologic evaluation established the diagnosis of splenosis . biopsy at laparoscopy should be considered to confirm the diagnosis in the presence of a congenital anomaly and lesions suspected of being endometriotic . 
ruptured mature cystic teratoma of the ovary with recurrence in the liver and colon 17 years later . a case report . a mature cystic teratoma of the ovary occurred in a 51-year-old woman and recurred as a large intrahepatic tumor mass as well as a small mass in the transverse colon 17 years after rupture , intraperitoneal spillage of tumor contents and subtotal surgical removal of the ovarian lesion and peritoneal implants . the patient was treated with a partial hepatectomy and a segmental transverse colectomy . the recurrent lesions , which contained histologically fully mature teratomatous elements only , were excised ; the result was a complete cure . to our knowledge this is the first documented report on such a complication of mature cystic teratoma of the ovary . 
conservative therapy for adnexal torsion . a case report . adnexal torsion has traditionally been treated with oophorectomy because of the fear that untwisting the ovarian pedicle may result in a thrombotic embolus . such a patient had bilateral adnexal torsion secondary to dermoid cysts . since standard therapy , oophorectomy , was performed , the patient was surgically castrated . a review of the literature revealed no reported cases of a thrombotic embolus arising from the untwisting of twisted adnexa and supported conservation of the adnexa rather than routine extirpation , except when necrotic . 
rheumatoid arthritis and comorbidity . data collected from 288 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) indicated that 54 % of respondents also reported other chronic conditions , and that 20 % rated at least one of these other conditions as severe . both the frequency and severity of these comorbidities affected scores on measures of depressive symptoms , social connectedness and on the arthritis impact measurement scales . these findings suggest that the absence of controls for comorbidity may bias measures of functional status among patients with ra . 
heat induced radial segmentation of leukocyte nuclei in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and other inflammatory diseases . heat induced radial segmentation of leukocyte nuclei is an in vitro phenomenon accompanying inflammatory diseases . we studied 62 patients with suspected polymyalgia rheumatica ( pmr ) to determine , whether heat induced radial segmentation can help in discriminating pmr from other conditions . at the initial presentation patients with pmr had more radial segmentation formation than patients with other inflammatory conditions . prednisone induced a rapid and marked decrease in radial segmentation formation in patients with pmr . this latter finding was much less marked in patients with other inflammatory conditions . we conclude that heat induced radial segmentation at the initial presentation and during prednisone treatment can help in discriminating pmr from other inflammatory conditions . 
morbidity associated with childhood systemic lupus erythematosus . a complete analysis of the outcome of childhood onset systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) requires determination of survival statistics and consideration of disease and treatment morbidity . the course of 32 patients with sle diagnosed at or prior to age 16 and followed from 1979-1988 was analyzed with emphasis on the morbidity of pediatric sle . clinical characteristics were similar to those in previous studies . five year survival , calculated by life-table analysis , was 85.3 % , comparable to recent studies . treatment consisted of corticosteroids ( 32 patients ) , antimalarials ( 14 ) , cyclophosphamide ( 9 ) or azathioprine ( 2 ) . eighty-four percent of patients experienced a noninfectious drug related complication . a major infection contributed in all 5 patients who died . higher total corticosteroid dose was associated with more severe infections . eighty-eight percent of patients were left with chronic organ dysfunction . survival in childhood onset sle has improved , but morbidity remains a significant problem from organ dysfunction and complications of therapy . our study is the first to address the issue of morbidity in childhood sle . 
lack of gene deletion for complement c4a deficiency in japanese patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . the frequency of c4a gene deletion was studied in japanese patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) and was compared with healthy controls . dna preparations were extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes from 59 patients with sle and from 166 healthy persons , and digested by restriction enzymes . they were hybridized with c4 complementary dna by the southern blotting method and the deletion of c4a gene was judged from restriction fragment length polymorphism . at the same time phenotypic c4a deficiency ( c4aq0 ) was measured . our results showed that the frequency of phenotypic c4a deficiency was 44.1 % in japanese patients with sle and this value was comparable with that ( 43.2 % ) in caucasian patients . on the other hand the deletion of c4a gene was not found in japanese patients with sle ( 0 % ) , or in healthy controls ( 0.6 % ) . our results indicate that c4aq0 may contribute to the pathogenesis of sle beyond the ethnical differences but japanese patients with sle have a different genetic background from caucasian patients with the c4a gene deleted . 
pyoderma gangrenosum complicating felty 's syndrome . the case of a 54-year-old woman with felty 's syndrome whose course was complicated by mucocutaneous lesions clinically typical of pyoderma gangrenosum is described . necrotizing sinusitis and saddle nose deformity were distinctive clinical features . lymphocytic vasculitis and rheumatoid nodule formation observed within panniculus at the base of a cutaneous lesion and in a nasal mucosal lesion were unexpected histopathologic findings . 
splinter hemorrhages as a possible clinical manifestation of cholesterol crystal embolization . we describe a patient with cholesterol crystal embolization who demonstrated splinter hemorrhages of multiple fingernails and toenails as part of her clinical presentations . our patient 's clinical presentation , and review of the medical literature , raise the possibility that cholesterol crystal embolization may be associated with splinter hemorrhages . 
pulmonary-renal syndrome with " triad " involvement due to small vessel vasculitis . we describe the clinical course and morphologic findings of a 22-year-old woman presenting with a systemic disease that included nasal ulceration , hemoptysis and rapidly progressive renal failure . biopsies of nasal septum and lung revealed small vessel leukocytoclastic angiitis while renal biopsy showed a diffuse crescentic glomerulonephritis . immunosuppressive therapy resulted in remission of clinical symptoms and resolution of glomerulonephritis as documented in a followup biopsy . although her clinical presentation with triad organ involvement strongly suggested wegener 's granulomatosis , this case illustrates that other varieties of vasculitis may mimic wegener 's granulomatosis . 
hiv associated systemic necrotizing vasculitis . the spectrum of hiv associated rheumatic syndromes continues to expand as does our experience with the disease . the following is a case of hiv associated systemic necrotizing vasculitis documented by rectal biopsy . the patient was treated successfully with corticosteroids alone , and after 9 months of followup has no evidence of progression to frank aids . 
acute central nervous system symptoms caused by ibuprofen in connective tissue disease . we describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen . in addition to aseptic meningitis , both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs , ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other . the spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed . 
methionine dependency of malignant tumors : a possible approach for therapy when methionine ( met ) , an essential amino acid , was substituted for by its precursor homocysteine ( hcy ) in the culture medium , normal cells such as fibroblasts proliferated normally . in contrast , many tumor cells failed to grow or grew at a lower rate . met dependency is acquired simultaneously with cell transformation , as observed with hbl 100 , a human mammary epithelial cell line that acquired increased malignancy as a function of in vitro passage number , and nih/3t3 ( j10 ) , a mouse fibroblast line transformed by transfection with the human hras oncogene . a relationship was observed between met dependency and metastatic potential of the rms-21 , rms-s4t , and rms-j1 sublines derived from rms-0 , a rat rhabdomyosarcoma cell line : the higher the metastatic potential of the cell line , the higher the concentration of met required to maintain its proliferation . met-independent cells derived from the rms-0 line , obtained by a progressive decrease of met in the culture medium lost their tumorigenicity when injected into rats fed with met-deprived diets . in addition , the in vitro motility of rms-s4t tumor cells , a marker of metastatic capability , decreased in met-free hcy-complemented ( met - hcy + ) medium . similarly , rms-0 tumor cells , preincubated in a met - hcy + culture medium for 24 hours , evidenced a decreased capacity to form lung colonies when injected into syngeneic rats : the median number of lung colonies was 27 and 3 ( p less than .05 ) for cells cultivated in met + hcy - and met - hcy + media , respectively . an amino acid-defined mixture reproducing casein composition was used as a protein source in the diets fed to rms-j1 tumor-bearing rats . dietary substitution of hcy for met ( i.e. , met deprivation ) resulted in decreased tumor growth ( from 44.4 + / - 1.0 to 40.6 + / - 1.4 ; p less than .05 ) and prevention of metastatic spread ( from 37 to 0 ; p less than .05 ) . in conclusion , exogenous met can be substituted for hcy to maintain the survival of normal cells but is essential for tumor cell growth in vivo as well as in vitro . therefore , this defect of cancerous versus normal cells could be used for a therapeutic purpose . 
low metastatic potential of clone from murine colon adenocarcinoma 26 increased by transfection of activated c-erbb-2 gene . we investigated the effect of an activated c-erbb-2 gene ( also known as erbb2 ) on metastatic potential . the c-erbb-2 gene was activated by mutation of the valine at position 659 within the transmembrane domain to glutamic acid . the activated c-erbb-2 expression vector was transfected into low-metastatic-potential nl-4 cells , which were established from a metastatic variant of murine colon adenocarcinoma 26 . all 10 clones produced lung metastases in balb/c mice injected via the tail vein . eight of the 10 clones expressed messenger rna ( mrna ) of activated c-erbb-2 and showed morphological alteration ; seven of the eight produced significantly enhanced experimental metastatic activity compared with that of untransfected nl-4 or nl-4neo cells , and one had metastatic ability similar to that of nl-4 cells . two clones did not express c-erbb-2 mrna and did not show morphological alteration or highly metastatic phenotype . five of the 10 clones subcutaneously implanted in the flank failed to produce metastasis in the lungs or other organs of the mice . the metastatic ability of the other five clones was not determined . these results indicate that the activated c-erbb-2 gene can enhance experimental but not spontaneous metastatic potential in nl-4 cells , suggesting participation of the gene in the metastatic process after initial arrest and lodgement in the capillary bed . 
the lap belt complex : intestinal and lumbar spine injury in children . the " seatbelt syndrome " describes intestinal and spinal injury caused by lap-style automotive restraints . more than 2,600 children were admitted to children 's national medical center with blunt injury in 3 years ; 395 were involved in a motor vehicle crash . ninety-five of the crash occupants ( 24 % ) were known to be wearing safety belts . ten children sustained a " lap belt injury " : five with lumbar spine injury , four with combined lumbar spine and intestinal injuries , and one child with intestinal injury . all ten children presented with a characteristic transverse abdominal ecchymosis . the ct scan was unreliable in evaluation of both spinal and intestinal injury . lateral radiographs were required for definitive diagnosis in eight of nine children with lumbar spinal injury . ct scan was clearly diagnostic in only one of five children with intestinal injury . children wearing lap belts are at risk of a " lap belt complex . " lateral spine x-rays , peritoneal lavage , and early laparotomy are recommended to establish an accurate diagnosis and to decrease morbidity . 
the role of antibiotic therapy in the prevention of empyema in patients with an isolated chest injury ( iss 9-10 ) : a prospective study . the purpose of this study was to determine the impact of an antibiotic regimen on the incidence of empyema in patients admitted with isolated chest trauma ( iss 9/10 ) and hemopneumothorax requiring tube thoracostomy . all patients with isolated chest trauma and hemopneumothorax ( estimated iss 9 or 10 ) seen in our trauma center were considered eligible for this study . patients were excluded for the following reasons : age less than 18 years , presence of shock at the time of initial resuscitation , ongoing antibiotic therapy for unrelated disease , documented pre-existing infection or documented abnormal immune status . ninety patients were randomized to two treatment limbs : antibiotics and tube thoracostomy or tube thoracostomy alone . all patients had the procedure performed in the trauma center in a standard fashion . wound care and tube care were identical . antibiotic therapy consisted of a first-generation cephalosporin ( cefazolin ) , one dose given just before the procedure and then q 6 h into the tube removal . injury severity scores were established as described by schwab after the manner of baker . statistical analysis was performed using fisher 's exact test of binary outcome . in this study , antibiotics were able to reduce the incidence of empyema in patients with isolated chest trauma and for such patients antibiotic treatment appears justified . further work is required to determine the effect on patients with more severe injury and multisystem involvement . 
traumatic rupture of the aorta -- critical decisions for trauma surgeons . the diagnosis and initial stabilization of patients with traumatic rupture of the aorta ( tra ) is performed by trauma surgeons . the resuscitations of 54 tra patients at a level i trauma center are reviewed . although the survival of patients who underwent attempted repair was good ( 75 % ) , 21/27 ( 78 % ) deaths occurred during phases of treatment controlled by a trauma surgeon . the techniques and sequencing of resuscitation can affect outcome . pneumatic antishock garments were not beneficial in the prehospital setting for patients with tra . in fact , pasg were on and inflated in all patients who presented in cardiac arrest . awake , unanesthetized intubation caused fatal aortic rupture in three patients . pharmacologic control of blood pressure during intubation is necessary . the amount of fluid , blood transfusion , and changes in blood pressure secondary to therapy did not statistically affect outcome . the average time from arrival in the er to angiogram was 64.7 minutes . the average time er to operating room was 159.7 minutes . seven cases of tra had delayed diagnosis usually for a misinterpreted cxr ( 5/7 ) . delay in diagnosis did not directly contribute to any deaths . associated abdominal injuries are a common cause of preventable deaths . fourteen patients with combined abdominal injuries and tra were identified . four of six deaths occurred with potentially reparable injuries . operative and diagnostic sequences must be adjusted to allow rapid control of all potentially fatal injuries . 
the importance of routine surveillance of distal bypass grafts with duplex scanning : a study of 379 reversed vein grafts . to assess the utility of routine duplex surveillance , 379 infrainguinal reversed vein grafts performed at two independent teaching hospitals were prospectively entered into a surveillance protocol from march 1986 through august 1989 . an average of 3.2 postoperative duplex graft flow velocity ( gfv ) measurements per graft was obtained during a mean follow-up interval of 21 1/2 months . only 2.1 % of 280 grafts with gfv measurements greater than 45 cm/sec failed within 6 months of a normal surveillance examination . gfv measurements less than 45 cm/sec in 99 grafts led to arteriography in 75 grafts , identifying 50 stenotic lesions in 48 bypasses ( 12.6 % of series ) . inflow lesions were present in 5 % , outflow stenoses in 2 % , and intrinsic graft stenoses in only 6 % of bypasses . only 29 % of grafts identified as failing by duplex scan were associated with a reduction in ankle-brachial index of greater than 0.15 . secondary reconstructions were performed in 48 grafts based on detection of a reduced gfv measurement ; all such reconstructions are patent after a mean follow-up of 5 months . duplex surveillance is more reliable in identification of failing vein grafts than is determination of ankle-brachial index . 
recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome . recurrent symptoms develop in 15 % to 20 % of patients undergoing either first rib resection or scalenectomy for thoracic outlet syndrome . over the past 22 years 134 operations for recurrence were performed in 97 patients . four operations were used : transaxillary first rib resection ( 26 ) ; supraclavicular first rib resection with neurolysis ( 15 ) ; scalenectomy with neurolysis ( 58 ) ; and brachial plexus neurolysis ( 35 ) . complications included temporary plexus injury ( 0.7 % ) , temporary phrenic palsy ( 3.7 % ) , and permanent phrenic palsy ( 1.4 % ) . the combined primary success rate of all four operations for recurrence was 84 % in the first 3 months . this fell to 59 % at 1 to 2 years ; 50 % at 3 to 5 years ; and 41 % at 10 to 15 years . no significant difference was found in results between the four operations used for recurrence . when recurrence was caused by trauma the results of reoperations were better than when recurrence was spontaneous . the primary success rates of three initial operations for thoracic outlet syndrome were compared to their secondary success rates ( improved after reoperation ) . by use of life-table methods , reoperation improved the 5 - to 10-year success rate of transaxillary first rib resection from 69 % to 86 % and for scalenectomy from 69 % to 84 % . reoperation is successful in most cases of recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome and better when recurrence is the result of a neck injury . 
extraperitoneal endarterectomy for iliofemoral occlusive disease . sixty patients with iliofemoral occlusive disease were treated by autogenous anatomic reconstruction by endarterectomy . endarterectomy was performed extra-peritoneally by the eversion technique . the operative technique and its advantages and disadvantages are discussed . six patients had postoperative complications of acute anastomotic hemorrhage ( two patients ) , would hematoma ( two patients ) , and atelectasis ( two patients ) . sixty patients discharged with patient arterial reconstruction were followed up from 5 months to 17 1/2 years , with a mean follow-up of 53 months . there were no other vascular complications . seventy limbs were at risk during this period , with an accumulative patency rate of 80.4 % at 5 years and 71.4 % at 10 years . there were 11 occlusions of the external iliac artery and one stenosis of the common femoral artery . failures occurred mainly in the external iliac artery , which appears to be the limiting factor in the continued patency of endarterectomy . there were 18 deaths ( 30 % ) . nine deaths were attributed to the complications of arteriosclerosis . 
clinical results of axillobifemoral bypass using externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene seventy-six axillobifemoral grafts with externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene prostheses were performed since 1983 . the indications for operation were absolute ( aortic sepsis ) in 20 ( 26 % ) patients and relative ( excessive operative risk or technical difficulty ) in 56 ( 74 % ) patients . the life-table primary patency for these operations at 4 years follow-up ( mean follow-up , 2 years , 4 months ) was 85 % . we conclude that the patency results achieved in this patient series are sufficiently satisfactory to warrant use of axillobifemoral grafts in an expanded number of patients with high operative risk and need for bypass of aortoiliac occlusive disease . 
surgical procedures in the management of takayasu 's arteritis . takayasu 's arteritis is an inflammatory arteriopathy that often progresses to obliteration of multiple large arteries . variable results have been reported after medical and surgical management . twenty female patients with takayasu 's arteritis were treated from 1973 to 1989 . eleven ( 55 % ) patients had hypertension . upper or lower extremity ischemia was present in 12 ( 60 % ) patients and cerebrovascular insufficiency in seven ( 35 % ) . nine patients initially managed with corticosteroids had no improvement in signs or symptoms of arterial insufficiency . eleven patients had 16 vascular procedures for the following indications : renovascular hypertension ( 6 ) , extremity ischemia ( 5 ) , cerebrovascular insufficiency ( 2 ) , dilation ascending aorta with aortic insufficiency ( 1 ) , thoracic aortic aneurysm ( 1 ) , abdominal aortic aneurysm ( 1 ) . procedures included aortorenal bypass ( 5 ) , carotid-subclavian , axillary , or brachial bypass ( 4 ) , aorto-carotid bypass ( 2 ) , aneurysm resection ( 2 ) , supra-celiac aorto-femoral bypass ( 1 ) , ascending aorta/aortic valve replacement ( 1 ) , and nephrectomy ( 1 ) . clinical improvement occurred in all patients . there were no operative deaths . all are alive at a mean follow-up of 5.75 years ( 6 months to 16 years ) . revision of the initial reconstruction has been required for recurrent renovascular hypertension in one patient and extremity ischemia in another . the other nine patients remain symptomatically improved . symptomatic takayasu 's arteritis frequently requires arterial reconstruction . symptomatic improvement and excellent long-term graft patency can be expected after arterial reconstruction . 
the influence of neutralizing heparin after carotid endarterectomy on postoperative stroke and wound hematoma . the influence of neutralizing or not neutralizing heparin after carotid endarterectomy on postoperative stroke and wound hematoma is unknown . during the past 6 years some of the authors frequently gave protamine sulfate to neutralize heparin , whereas others did not unless a patch was used or wound hemostasis was not readily obtained . to determine the influence of protamine sulfate on stroke and wound hematoma the records of 697 patients having a carotid endarterectomy from january 1984 to september 1989 were reviewed . protamine sulfate was given to 328 patients , and 369 did not receive protamine sulfate . the incidence of stroke in the two groups was 1.8 % ( n = 6 ) and 2.7 % ( n = 10 ) , respectively , and the difference was not significant ( p = 0.6019 ) . excluding three strokes that could not be related to neutralizing or not neutralizing heparin , the difference remained insignificant ( 1.5 % vs 2.2 % , p = 0.7290 ) . the incidence of wound hematoma was 1.8 % ( n = 6 ) in patients given protamine sulfate and 6.5 % ( n = 24 ) in patients not given protamine sulfate , and this difference was significant ( p = 0.0044 ) . the difference remained significant when three hematomas not related to protamine sulfate were excluded ( 1.2 % vs 6.2 % , p = 0.0013 ) . in patients not given protamine sulfate draining the wound lessened the incidence of wound hematoma ( 4.4 % vs 8.6 % ) , but this difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.1475 ) . in patients given protamine sulfate the dose of protamine sulfate ( 15 to 45 mg vs 50 to 75 mg ) had no statistically significant effect on the incidence of stroke ( 0.8 % vs 2.0 % , p = 0.6530 ) or wound hematoma ( 1.6 % vs 1.0 % , p = 1.000 ) . 
an effective treatment protocol for intraarterial drug injection . between 1972 and 1988 , 48 patients with extremity ischemia after an intraarterial drug injection were treated with the following protocol : heparin , dextran 40 , dexamethasone , elevation , and early mobilization of the extremity . a tissue ischemia score , derived by assessing the color , capillary refill , sensory function , and temperature of the extremity , was used to assess the ischemic injury . each sign was scored either normal = 0 or abnormal = 1 ; then summed to provide the tissue ischemia score ( range , 0 to 4 ) . twenty-four ( 50 % ) patients had an extremity tissue ischemia score less than or equal to 2 . after treatment 22 of the 24 patients had a normal extremity , and 2 required limited digital amputations . in this group , outcome was comparable regardless of the time interval from intraarterial drug injection to treatment . ten of 24 ( 50 % ) patients with an extremity tissue ischemia score greater than 2 had a normal extremity , 3 had a functional deficit , and 11 required digital amputations . twelve of the 24 patients were treated within 24 hours and had a significantly superior outcome when compared to the 12 who were treated more than 24 hours after intraarterial drug injection ( p less than 0.001 , fisher 's exact test ) . the tissue ischemia score is a useful predictor of extremity outcome in patients with intraarterial drug injection . the outlined treatment protocol is effective in minimizing tissue injury caused by intraarterial drug injection . institution of treatment within 24 hours of intraarterial drug injection is particularly important in patients who manifest severe ischemia . 
acute sensorineural deafness in lassa fever a prospective audiometric evaluation of 69 hospitalized febrile patients in sierra leone , west africa , revealed a sensorineural hearing deficit ( snhd ) in 14 ( 29 % ) of 49 confirmed cases of lassa fever and in 0 of 20 febrile controls . an snhd was present in nine ( 17.6 % ) of 51 people who had evidence of previous lassa virus infection . twenty-six of 32 local residents who had previously sustained a sudden deafness had antibody titers to lassa virus of 16 or greater , compared with six of 32 matched controls . lassa fever is associated with an incidence of snhd , which considerably exceeds that previously reported with any other postnatally acquired infection , and accounts for a prevalence of virus-related hearing impairment in the eastern province of sierra leone that is greater than that reported from anywhere else in the world . 
does age affect outcomes of out-of-hospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation ? we examined the relation between age and outcomes in patients treated for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in seattle , wash . considering all out-of-hospital cardiac arrests treated by paramedics over a recent 5-year period , 386 ( 27 % ) of 1405 consecutive patients aged 70 years or older were resuscitated and admitted to a hospital vs 474 ( 29 % ) of 1624 younger patients ; 140 elderly patients ( 10 % ) were discharged alive vs 223 younger patients ( 14 % ) . of the 140 elderly patients , 112 went home and 28 went to a nursing home . considering only patients whose initial rhythms were ventricular fibrillation , the percent of patients discharged alive was substantially higher : 120 ( 24 % ) of 493 for elderly patients and 194 ( 30 % ) of 639 for younger patients . elderly patients can benefit from attempted resuscitation from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest . 
intrapleural tetracycline for the prevention of recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax . results of a department of veterans affairs cooperative study this prospective , multicenter , randomized , " unblinded , " controlled clinical trial was designed to determine if the intrapleural instillation of 1500 mg of tetracycline hydrochloride would be effective in diminishing the ipsilateral rate of recurrence for spontaneous pneumothorax . during the 4-year enrollment period , 113 patients were assigned to the tetracycline group ; 116 patients were assigned to the control group . during the 5-year study period , the recurrence rate in the tetracycline group ( 25 % ) was significantly less than that in the control group ( 41 % ) . use of tetracycline seemed to reduce the recurrence rates for patients with either primary or secondary spontaneous pneumothorax and for patients with either an initial or a recurrent pneumothorax . we conclude that the intrapleural administration of tetracycline in patients with spontaneous pneumothorax significantly reduces the rate of ipsilateral recurrence but is associated with intense chest pain . intrapleural tetracycline therapy is indicated for patients with a spontaneous pneumothorax who are hospitalized and are treated with tube thoracostomy . 
caffeine and ventricular arrhythmias . an electrophysiological approach . little information is known regarding caffeine 's effect on the substrate supporting sustained ventricular arrhythmias . this prospective study evaluated the effect of coffee ( 275 mg of caffeine ) on this substrate with programmed ventricular stimulation in 22 patients with a history of symptomatic nonsustained ventricular tachycardia , ventricular tachycardia , or ventricular fibrillation . patients underwent electrophysiological testing before and 1 hour after coffee ingestion . mean ( + / - sem ) plasma caffeine level achieved after coffee consumption was 6.2 + / - 0.5 mg/l . mean plasma catecholamine and potassium values were not altered significantly 1 hour following caffeine ingestion . the number of extrastimuli required to induce an arrhythmia was unchanged in 10 patients ( 46 % ) , increased in six ( 27 % ) , and decreased in six ( 27 % ) . rhythm severity was unchanged in 17 patients ( 77 % ) , more severe in two ( 9 % ) , and less severe in three ( 14 % ) . in those patients with clinical ventricular arrhythmias , caffeine did not significantly alter inducibility or severity of arrhythmias , suggesting little effect on the substrate supporting ventricular arrhythmias . 
clinicopathological features of elevated lesions of the duodenal bulb . we present here our findings on patients with an elevated lesion of the duodenal bulb . all these patients were treated in our clinics between the years 1984 and 1988 . these lesions were present in 36 of 8,802 patients who underwent upper gastrointestinal pan-endoscopy . two patients had a duodenal carcinoma , 2 an adenoma , and 1 a brunner 's gland adenoma . there were 15 with a hyperplastic polyp , 3 with a heterogenic gastric mucosa , 3 with brunner 's gland hyperplasia , 6 with duodenitis , and 4 with regenerative mucosa . among these 36 lesions , only 69 % ( 25 lesions ) were evident on the upper gastrointestinal x-ray series . adenoma and brunner 's gland adenoma were of a pedunculated form of the gross type and had an irregular surface mucosa . both duodenal carcinomas were detected by endoscopic biopsy and were resected . histologically , these lesions were limited to the submucosal layer and were of the non-pedunculated polypoid form , but there were no other characteristic endoscopic features , in comparison with other elevated lesions . thus , upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with routine observations of the duodenal bulb plus endoscopic biopsy will lead to a definite diagnosis of these elevated lesions and to the early detection and treatment of this rare malignant lesion . 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for the circulatory support of children after repair of congenital heart disease . we have treated 39 infants and children with congenital heart disease with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation during the past 5 years . thirty-six were treated for low cardiac output or pulmonary vasoreactive crisis after repair of congenital heart defects . twenty-two ( 61 % ) survived . most patients were cannulated from the neck via the right internal jugular vein and the right common carotid artery . six patients were cannulated from the chest , including three who had separate drainage of the left side of the heart with a left atrial cannula . two of these patients survived and were the only survivors of the nine patients cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass after open cardiac operations . we also reviewed 312 patients ( the predictor study series ) having open cardiac operations before the availability of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ; 27 of these patients died . data were collected at 1 and 8 hours postoperatively to determine if any parameters might predict early mortality . with these parameters used as criteria , patients who went on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation were as sick as those who died before extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was available . the most common complication was bleeding related to heparinization . the mean transfusion requirement in survivors was 1.50 + / - 1.13 ml/kg/hr , 5.63 + / - 7.0 ml/kg/hr in the nonsurvivors , and 7.46 + / - 8.29 ml/kg/hr in those cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from bypass . four children had intracranial hemorrhage , and two of them died . there was one late death . nine of the 22 survivors are entirely normal . all survivors who do not have down 's syndrome are considered to have normal central nervous system function . we conclude that extracorporeal membrane oxygenation can improve survival in patients with both pulmonary artery hypertension and low cardiac output after operations for congenital heart disease . 
long-term results of the belsey mark iv antireflux operation in relation to the severity of esophagitis a retrospective analysis of the results of the belsey mark iv operation has been conducted , relating these to the degree of esophagitis present preoperatively . analysis of 89 patients showed a 91.7 % success rate in patients without esophagitis . good results diminished steadily as the severity of esophagitis increased , giving 76.5 % , 75 % , 66.7 % , and 50 % success rates for first - , second - , third - , and fourth-degree esophagitis , respectively . we believe that shortening of the esophagus is an important factor in this . shortening is obvious in third - and fourth-degree esophagitis but subtle in first - and second-degree esophagitis . we conclude that the belsey operation is adequate for patients without esophagitis , but for patients with any degree of esophagitis more effective reflux control is needed . 
the metabolic consequences of a " washed " cardiopulmonary bypass pump-priming fluid in children undergoing cardiac operations . the substrate load of the pump-priming fluid , especially glucose and lactate , has a major influence on the metabolic response of children during cardiac operations and may be detrimental neurologically . it is possible to cleanse the priming fluid of these excess substrates by ultrafiltration followed by the addition of a balanced electrolyte solution . we have used this technique in the bypass management of nine children over 1 year of age and weighing less than 18 kg who were studied from induction of anesthesia to 6 hours postoperatively . frequent blood samples were taken for measurement of electrolytes , intermediary metabolites , and stress-related hormones . throughout the study period electrolyte concentrations were maintained within the physiologic range and changes in blood glucose and lactate were minimized compared with those of matched historical controls from previous studies . during the period of cardiopulmonary bypass mean serum glucose concentrations varied between 4.4 and 7.7 mmol/l and peaked at 10.7 mmol/l just before skin closure . the mean serum lactate concentration did not exceed 2.3 mmol/l during the period studied . thus ultrafiltration of the priming fluid and replacement with a balanced electrolyte solution results in the delivery to the patient of a reasonably physiologic substrate load , which is reflected in improved control of mean plasma intermediary metabolite concentrations . the method may form the basis of further clinical studies to determine specific aspects of the metabolic stress response in children . 
prediction of risk in noncardiac operations after cardiac operations . to determine the preoperative variables affecting the mortality rate and the development of severe complications in patients who have had myocardial revascularization or a valve replacement and who then undergo a noncardiac operation , we retrospectively studied data from 120 such patients over the 5 years from 1982 through 1986 . thirty-six percent of patients had a noncardiac operation during the first month after the cardiac operation . the mortality rate was 11 % , and the morbidity rate was 56 % . the statistical comparison of the predictive accuracy of postoperative complications of three simple , widely used classifications ( american society of anesthesiologists physical status , new york heart association classification , massachusetts general hospital cardiac risk index ) demonstrated the superiority of the simplified three-class cardiac risk index ( massachusetts general hospital-cardiac risk index ; predictive accuracy of 84 % ) . in a multivariate discriminant analysis of 21 variables in this population , five variables ( myocardial infarction in previous 6 months , s3 gallop or jugular vein distention , arrhythmia on last preoperative electrocardiogram , emergency operation , delay between cardiac and noncardiac operation ) were identified as being the most predictive of a postoperative complication . when these variables were used in the function ( df3 ) obtained by linear discriminant analysis , the prediction accuracy of a postoperative complication reached 83 % . performance of the new models in a prospective validation population remained satisfactory ( 75 % for massachusetts general hospital-cardiac risk index three-class index and 72 % for df3 ) . extensive statistical analysis of our data tested by a validation study provided simple predictive models based on clinical variables easily available even in emergency situations . 
fetal platelet counts in thrombocytopenic pregnancy fetal platelet counts were assessed by percutaneous umbilical blood sampling in 64 pregnancies ( 62 women ) with maternal thrombocytopenia . in 33 pregnancies associated with chronic immune thrombocytopenia , 11 of the fetuses had platelet counts below 150 x 10 ( 9 ) / l and 4 were severely thrombocytopenic ( less than 50 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . in 31 pregnancies with symptomless maternal thrombocytopenia as an incidental finding , 4 fetuses were thrombocytopenic , 1 of them severely . maternal indices , including antiplatelet antibodies , did not correlate with risk of fetal thrombocytopenia ; and in those with repeat measurements there was no evidence of benefit from treatment with either corticosteroids ( 4 cases ) or intravenous immunoglobulin ( 3 cases ) . percutaneous umbilical blood sampling , a safe procedure in experienced hands , provides accurate platelet counts in thrombocytopenic pregnancy , as an aid to decisions on mode of delivery and to assessment of treatments . 
perforin-mediated myocardial damage in acute myocarditis . endomyocardial specimens were obtained from 7 patients with acute myocarditis . immunohistochemical examination of the mononuclear infiltrate showed mainly cytotoxic t lymphocytes and natural killer cells . perforin ( a pore-forming protein found in cytotoxic lymphocytes ) was identified in this myocardial lymphocytic infiltrate and electron microscopy showed myocardial cell damage that may have been associated with these perforin containing lymphocytes . the results indicate that in acute idiopathic and viral myocarditis , myocardial damage may be due to the action of perforin-secreting lymphocytes . 
neurological sequelae of cerebral malaria in children . out of 604 gambian children admitted with falciparum malaria to one hospital between september and december , 1988 , 308 had cerebral malaria and 203 were severely anaemic ( haemoglobin less than 60 g/l ) . 14 % of those with cerebral malaria died , as did 7.8 % of those with severe anaemia . 32 ( 12 % ) of children surviving cerebral malaria had residual neurological deficit . 69 other children were admitted with clinical features strongly suggestive of cerebral malaria but with negative blood films ; 16 of these died and 3 had residual neurological deficits . the commonest sequelae of cerebral malaria were hemiplegia ( 23 cases ) , cortical blindness ( 11 ) , aphasia ( 9 ) , and ataxia ( 6 ) . factors predisposing to sequelae included prolonged coma , protracted convulsions , severe anaemia , and a biphasic clinical course characterised by recovery of consciousness followed by recurrent convulsions and coma . at follow up 1-6 months later over half these children had made a full recovery , but a quarter were left with a major residual neurological deficit . cerebral malaria in childhood may be an important cause of neurological handicap in the tropics . 
conservation surgery for glomus jugulare tumors : the value of early diagnosis . the results of lateral cranial base surgery for glomus jugulare tumors are gratifying when normal anatomy and function can be preserved . the goal of conservation surgery is to preserve normal ear anatomy and cranial nerve function . in general , conservation surgery is tumor-size dependent . thus , excellent states of functional recovery depend upon accurate early diagnosis . this paper reviews the technical aspects of transtemporal conservation skull base tumor surgery while also reviewing our experience with nearly 100 glomus jugulare patients . adjuvants to early diagnosis will be highlighted from a review of presenting symptoms , clinical signs , and related diagnosis . our objective is to provoke a high index of suspicion in physicians charged with the responsibility of diagnosing these tumors . diagnostic guidelines are proposed . 
the location of the maxillary os and its importance to the endoscopic sinus surgeon . as functional endoscopic sinus surgery continues to gain popularity and support , the necessity for a clear and accurate understanding of the anatomy of the ostiomeatal complex becomes essential . to clarify this anatomy , serial cadaver dissections were performed and the anatomy of the ostiomeatal complex was detailed in three dimensions , with an emphasis on precise localization of the internal os of the maxillary sinus as it relates to the orbit , natural antronasal canal , and ethmoid infundibulum . measurements of the position of the internal os relative to the position of the anterior and posterior walls of the maxillary sinus and the position of the orbit were taken . the dimensions and configuration of the antronasal canal and its relationship to the infundibulum were also detailed . these measurements and relationships must be understood for an endoscopic sinus surgeon to locate the natural ostia without injuring the orbit . 
surgery for sinusitis and aspirin triad . an 11-year retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the surgical treatment of sinusitis in aspirin-triad patients . twenty-five patients were selected for surgery when their sinus disease and asthma progressed despite intense medical treatment . sixteen patients had radiographic evidence of severe ethmoid disease , and their initial surgical procedures were limited ( i.e. , bilateral intranasal ethmoidectomies ) . of these 16 patients , 6 required subsequent surgery for recurrent sinusitis . nine of the 25 patients had radiographic evidence of severe antral , as well as ethmoid , disease . their initial surgical procedures were radical , i.e. , bilateral caldwell-luc operations with intranasal and transantral sphenoethmoidectomies . none of these 9 patients required further surgical treatment for control . this review indicates that if antral and sphenoid disease are detected in association with ethmoid involvement , a radical surgical approach is the operation of choice . 
the role of the facial nerve latency test in the prognosis of bell 's palsy . eighty patients with idiopathic facial nerve palsy were evaluated by the facial nerve latency test . depending on the latency time , the patients were classified into the following four groups : group a patients had normal latency times ( 3.25 msec ) ; group b patients had slightly extended latency times ( 4 to 7 msec ) and a mean of 5.6 msec ; group c patients had extended latency times ( 10 to 14 msec ) and a mean of 10.2 msec ; and group d patients displayed complete disappearance of evoked compound muscle action potential ( no responses ) . under the same therapeutic regimen , it was determined that , when the latency time was normal or close to normal , the functional recovery of the nerve was complete or almost complete , and the recovery time was short . when the latency time was extended or there was no response , the functional recovery of the nerve was either incomplete or absent . 
surgical therapy of the eyelids in patients with facial paralysis . patients with facial paralysis have a degree of lagophthalmos and paralytic ectropion . we present our experience in the surgical management of 25 consecutive patients treated for these problems . paralytic lagophthalmos was corrected using gold weights inserted into the upper eyelid . the advantages and disadvantages of this surgical technique are reviewed . medial canthoplasty and lateral canthoplasty were performed to rectify paralytic ectropion . ancillary procedures included browpexy , upper-lid blepharoplasty , and temporalis sling . the results were excellent in 23 of 25 patients and good in the remaining two . after a minimum of 6 months ' follow-up , there were no complications . the authors believe that the above procedures will yield consistently excellent cosmetic and functional results in patients with paralysis of the eyelids . 
gentamicin iontophoresis in the treatment of bacterial otitis externa in the guinea pig model . pseudomonas otitis externa is one of the most common infections treated by otolaryngologists . infections induced in 30 guinea pigs appeared similar to that seen in humans . the ears were then placed into four treatment groups : group a , which received a single cleaning ; group b , which received a single cleaning followed by gentamicin drops 4 times daily ; group c , which received a single cleaning followed by a single gentamicin iontophoresis treatment ; and group d , the control group , which received no treatment . infections were analyzed by grading edema , purulence , and erythema . an average of 10.2 days was required for control group to return to normal appearance . groups a , b , and c had mean resolution times of 5.9 , 4.7 , and 4.3 days , respectively . gentamicin iontophoresis appears to be promising , with results as good as drop therapy in otitis externa in the guinea pig model . 
non-ossicle homograft bone prostheses in the middle ear . this thesis proposes the use of human cadaver non-ossicle temporal homograft bone as middle ear reconstructive material . bone obtained from the otic capsule histologically resembles that of the ossicles more so than any other bone in the body . the otic capsule , due to its proximity to the middle ear , can be harvested with the middle ear structures when bone cores are obtained , making it easily accessible . these prostheses are cost effective because multiple prostheses can be sculptured from one temporal bone core . this paper further proposes the use and introduction of non-ossicle homografts in primary stapedectomy , as well as in selected cases to bypass the incus and the superstructure of the stapes . audiological data is provided . some of the grafts have been in the middle ear for up to 5 years . there have been no extrusions and no complications . the method of harvesting , preservation , and sterilization is presented , as well as a pictorial illustration of the finished product and its relation to the natural ossicles . one histological specimen is presented . on the basis of the audiologic results , as well as the fact that no ossicles have extruded and none have been resorbed , it is proposed that non-ossicle temporal bone homografts have a place in transplantation surgery . 
mitochondrial encephalomyopathies . the mitochondrial diseases present with great heterogeneity . they are often multisystemic and vary considerably in age at onset , distribution of weakness , severity , and course . only nonthyroidal hypermetabolism has a distinctive clinical presentation . therefore , attempts at classification have generated some controversy . this article discusses the general classification that takes into account genetic and biochemical features , which has resulted from the fast pace of biochemical and molecular genetic investigations . 
peroxisomal disorders . although peroxisomes were once considered a vestige , their importance in cellular metabolism is clearly established by the many inherited diseases that have been described in the past two decades . unfortunately there is no definitive treatment for the various disorders , but based on the recognition of the biochemical abnormalities , prenatal testing and appropriate genetic counseling can be provided . it is essential for clinicians to be aware of this group of diseases , as diagnosis and further study of these patients are essential in understanding the basic etiologic mechanisms underlying these complex groups of disorders . clearly , there is much to be learned about the relationship between biochemical abnormalities and the phenotypic variability of the peroxisomal disorders . 
the ivh complex of lesions : cerebrovascular injury in the preterm infant . the term intraventricular hemorrhage has become associated with a variety of cerebrovascular insults in preterm infants . because of a shared pathophysiology and timing , these are the neurologic lesions to search for when evaluating sick preterm infants . this complex of lesions is common and , when parenchymal injury occurs , likely to result in neurologic sequelae . a review of the variety of injuries , their pathophysiology , their diagnosis by cranial ultrasonography , and their prognosis is offered . emphasis is placed on the need for assessment over time when evaluating parenchymal lesions in preterm infants . 
the classification of childhood seizures and epilepsy syndromes . the classification of seizures and the epileptic syndromes is particularly relevant to those who treat children , as most syndromes are age related , with onset between the neonatal and adolescent periods . whereas seizures are characterized by ictal behavior and eeg findings , epilepsy syndromes are defined by seizure type , etiology , age of onset , natural history , possible genetic factors , and prognosis . limitations exist , but attempts to use these classifications typically lead to a better understanding of the patient and allow for more precise evaluation and treatment . 
status epilepticus in infancy and childhood . status epilepticus implies a prolonged seizure or recurrent seizures with persistent decreased consciousness , lasting at least 30 minutes . both convulsive and nonconvulsive forms exist , either of which may lead to death or additional neurologic deficit . therapy involves careful supportive care plus some combination of benzodiazepines , phenytoin , or phenobarbital . the outcome depends first on the etiology and second on the rapidity with which seizures are controlled . 
pediatric behavioral neurology : an update on the neurologic aspects of depression , hyperactivity , and learning disabilities [ published erratum appears in neurol clin 1991 feb ; 9 ( 1 ) : viii ] the high incidence of poor social adjustment in long-term follow-up studies of depressed children seems to relate to the inadequacy of the pharmacotherapy necessary to sustain long-lasting remission or possibly to repetitive inappropriate stresses . insufficient antidepressant therapy with resultant intermittent depression-induced dysfunction of the socialization functions performed by the right cerebral hemisphere would not permit the child to develop appropriate interpersonal skills ( causing failure in most social situations ) , and associated cognitive difficulties would complicate academic performance . repeated school failure and chronic social ineptitude preclude development of the skills necessary for successful independent living in society . thus , if symptoms of depression are found , it is imperative that the learning-disabled or behaviorally disturbed child or adolescent receive adequate antidepressant therapy to ensure complete long-term remission of the depression . in addition , learning-disabled individuals , even without apparent diagnosable depressive illness , must be offered appropriate methods for learning and communication which reduce stress . when such appropriate educational strategies are offered and poor performance still ensues ( or continues ) , a trial of antidepressant therapy should be considered . recognition of the depressive nature of symptoms may not be possible until treatment-induced improvement has occurred and depression-associated learning disability has resolved . improvement in academic performance associated with improved cognitive function after treatment-induced remission of a depressive episode can be dramatic , with resolution of apparent learning disability . poor educational achievement associated with chronic learning difficulties ultimately affects adult social functioning , and untreated or improperly treated chronic depression may result in the development of later personality disturbances . therefore , before attributing school problems in children to untreatable conditions , depressive disorder must be excluded , and appropriate antidepressant therapy ( along with removal of all apparent inappropriate stress , including inappropriate demands on brain function ) should be provided to children and adolescents with evidence of depression . 
eosinophilic inflammation in asthma background and methods . the importance of eosinophils in the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma is not established . in an attempt to evaluate the role of eosinophilic inflammation in asthma , we compared 10 normal subjects with 43 patients with chronic asthma , 19 of whom had severe disease as assessed by a clinical scoring method described by aas and by pulmonary-function tests . eosinophils were counted in peripheral blood and bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid , and in biopsy specimens obtained from the patients and post mortem from 8 subjects without asthma , but not from the 10 normal controls . eosinophil cationic protein was titrated by radioimmunoassay in the bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid from all subjects and studied by immunohistochemistry in the biopsy specimens . results . there was a significant increase in the number of peripheral-blood eosinophils in the patients that was correlated with the clinical severity of asthma ( p less than 0.001 ) and pulmonary function ( p less than 0.03 ) . levels of eosinophils and eosinophil cationic protein were increased in the bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid from the patients and were also correlated with the severity of asthma ( p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.002 , respectively ) . hematoxylin-eosin staining of bronchial-biopsy specimens showed that intraepithelial eosinophils were present only in patients with asthma . immunohistochemical analysis of eosinophil cationic protein revealed that normal subjects had only a few nondegranulated eosinophils deep in the submucosa , whereas all the patients had degranulated eosinophils beneath the basement membrane and among epithelial cells . in some patients there was a relation between the presence of degranulated eosinophils and epithelial damage . conclusions . eosinophilic inflammation of the airways is correlated with the severity of asthma . these cells are likely to play a part in the epithelial damage seen in this disease . 
outcomes of pregnancy in a national sample of resident physicians background . physically demanding , highly stressful work during pregnancy has been reported to cause a variety of adverse outcomes . it has been difficult , however , to separate the effects of work from those of socioeconomic status . methods . by means of a national questionnaire-based survey , we studied the outcomes of pregnancy during residency for 4412 women who graduated from medical school in 1985 and for the wives of 4236 of their male classmates , who served as controls . results . the rate of response to our survey was 87 percent ( 4412 of 5079 ) for the women residents and 85 percent ( 4236 of 4968 ) for the wives of the male residents . there were no significant differences in the proportion of pregnancies ending in miscarriage ( 13.8 percent for residents vs. 11.8 percent for their classmates ' wives , p = 0.12 ) , ectopic gestations ( 0.5 percent vs. 0.8 percent , p = 0.69 ) , and stillbirths ( 0.2 percent vs. 0.5 percent , p = 0.20 ) . there were 989 women residents and 1238 residents ' wives whose first pregnancy during residency resulted in the live birth of a singleton infant . although during each trimester the women residents worked many more hours than the wives of the male residents , the frequency of preterm births ( less than 37 weeks ' gestation ) was similar : 6.5 percent for residents and 6.0 percent for residents ' wives ( odds ratio = 1.1 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.7 to 1.5 ) . infants who were small for gestational age ( with birth weights less than the 10th percentile for gestational age ) were born to 5.3 percent of the residents and 5.8 percent of the residents ' wives ( odds ratio = 0.9 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.6 to 1.3 ) . adjustment for factors that differed between the women residents and the wives of male residents resulted in odds ratios of 1.2 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.8 to 1.7 ) for preterm delivery and 0.9 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.6 to 1.3 ) for the delivery of an infant who was small for gestational age . however , the women residents more frequently reported having had preterm labor ( 11 percent vs. 6 percent ) , but not preterm delivery ( 6.5 percent vs. 6.0 percent ) ; preeclampsia was also more common among the women residents ( 8.8 percent vs. 3.5 percent ) . conclusions . these results suggest that working long hours in a stressful occupation has little effect on the outcome of pregnancy in an otherwise healthy population of high socioeconomic status . 
the effect of ursodiol on the efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy of gallstones . the dornier national biliary lithotripsy study background . in the treatment of gallstones with extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy , the bile acid ursodiol is administered to dissolve the gallstone fragments . we designed our study to determine the value of administering this agent . methods . at 10 centers , 600 symptomatic patients with three or fewer radiolucent gallstones 5 to 30 mm in diameter , as visualized by oral cholecystography , were randomly assigned to receive ursodiol or placebo for six months , starting one week before lithotripsy . results . the stones were fragmented in 97 percent of all patients , and the fragments were less than or equal to 5 mm in diameter in 46.8 percent . on the basis of an intention-to-treat analysis of all 600 patients , 21 percent receiving ursodiol and 9 percent receiving placebo ( p less than 0.0001 ) had gallbladders that were free of stones after six months . among those with completely radiolucent solitary stones less than 20 mm in diameter , 35 percent of the patients receiving ursodiol and 18 percent of those receiving placebo ( p less than 0.001 ) were free of stones after six months . biliary pain , usually mild , occurred in 73 percent of all patients but in only 13 percent of those who were free of stones after three and six months ( p less than 0.01 ) . there were few adverse events . only diarrhea occurred with a significantly different frequency in the two groups : 32.6 percent were affected in the ursodiol group , as compared with 24.7 percent in the placebo group ( p less than 0.04 ) . severe biliary pain occurred in 1.5 percent of all patients , acute cholecystitis in 1.0 percent , and acute pancreatitis in 1.5 percent ; endoscopic sphincterotomy was performed in 0.5 percent , and cholecystectomy in 2.5 percent . conclusions . extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy with ursodiol was more effective than lithotripsy alone for the treatment of symptomatic gallstones , and equally safe . treatment was more effective for solitary than multiple stones , radiolucent than slightly calcified stones , and smaller than larger stones . 
the t ( 15 ; 17 ) translocation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia fuses the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene to a novel transcribed locus . retinoic acid is a vitamin a derivative with striking effects on development and cell differentiation . several nuclear retinoic acid receptors ( rars ) , acting as ligand-inducible transcription factors , have been characterized and indirect evidence suggests that they have distinct roles . one of the most intriguing properties of retinoic acid is its ability to induce in vivo differentiation of acute promyelocytic leukaemia ( apl ) cells into mature granulocytes , leading to morphological complete remissions . because the rar alpha gene maps to chromosome 17q21 ( ref . 14 ) , close to the t ( 15 ; 17 ) ( q21-q11-22 ) translocation specifically associated with apl , we analysed rar alpha gene structure and expression in apl cells . we report here that , in one apl-derived cell line , the rar alpha gene has been translocated to a locus , myl , on chromosome 15 , resulting in the synthesis of a myl/rar alpha fusion messenger rna . using two probes located on either side of the cloned breakpoint , we have found genomic rearrangements of one or other locus in six patients out of eight , demonstrating that the rar alpha and/or myl genes are frequently rearranged in apl and the breakpoints are clustered . these findings strongly implicate retinoic acid receptor alpha in leukaemogenesis . 
cloning of a gene that is rearranged in patients with choroideraemia choroideraemia ( tapetochoroidal dystrophy , tcd ) , a common form of x-linked blindness , is characterized by progressive dystrophy of the choroid , retinal pigment epithelium and retina . previous studies have assigned the tcd gene to a small segment of the xq21 band . by making use of reverse genetics strategies we have isolated eight overlapping complementary dna clones from the same chromosomal region . the corresponding gene is expressed in retina , choroid and retinal pigment epithelium . the cdnas encompass an open reading frame of 948 base pairs that is structurally altered in eight tcd patients with deletions , and in a female patient with a balanced translocation involving xq21 . these findings provide strong evidence that we have cloned the gene underlying choroideraemia . elucidation of its function should provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms responsible for this disorder and other hereditary retinopathies . 
hemiplegia in posterior cerebral artery occlusion . we report 4 patients with hemiplegia due to a posterior cerebral artery occlusion . associated clinical signs were aphasia , alexia or a neglect syndrome , hemianopia , and hemisensory loss . hemiplegia was due to infarction in the lateral midbrain . the level of the occlusion in the posterior cerebral artery may be located distal to the junction with the posterior communicating artery . 
capsular genu syndrome . we report 5 patients with unilateral infarct and 1 with hemorrhage limited to the genu of the internal capsule . the most prominent finding was contralateral facial and lingual hemiparesis with dysarthria . three patients also showed unilateral mastication-palatal-pharyngeal weakness , and 1 had unilateral vocal cord paresis . mild limb involvement was limited to hand weakness in 4 patients . our findings suggest that the majority of motor corticopontine and corticocobulbar fibers are located in the genu of the internal capsule . the faciolingual syndrome and its variants are highly suggestive of capsular genu stroke . 
acute naming deficits following dominant temporal lobectomy : prediction by age at 1st risk for seizures . age at 1st risk for seizures may predict anomia following dominant anterior temporal lobectomy . we assessed confrontation naming before and 2 to 3 weeks after surgery in 45 right-handed patients grouped by side of focus and presence or absence of early ( less than or equal to 5 years ) risk factors . after left lobectomy , 6 of 10 ( 60 % ) patients with no early risks demonstrated significant decline ( greater than or equal to 25 % ) in naming , but none of the patients with early risks showed this decline . after right lobectomy , there was no change . cerebral representation of naming may be atypical in patients with early risks . 
variable expression of parkinson 's disease : a base-line analysis of the datatop cohort . the parkinson study group . the datatop database , which includes clinical information on 800 patients with early untreated parkinson 's disease ( pd ) , is well suited to explore clinical heterogeneity in pd . patients with early-onset pd ( less than or equal to 40 years , n = 33 ) reached the same level of disability as the late-onset pd ( greater than or equal to 70 years , n = 85 ) group at a significantly slower rate ( 2.9 vs. 1.7 years ) . early-onset pd patients functioned cognitively better than late-onset pd patients . bradykinesia , and postural instability and gait difficulty ( pigd ) , were more common at onset in patients with a rapid rate of disease progression ( " malignant pd " ; duration of symptoms less than 1 year and hoehn/yahr stage of 2.5 , n = 11 ) as compared with those with a relatively slow rate of progression ( " benign pd " ; duration of symptoms greater than 4 years , n = 65 ) . comparisons of tremor-dominant pd ( mean tremor score/mean pigd score less than or equal to 1.5 , n = 441 ) with the pigd-dominant type ( mean tremor score/mean pigd score greater than or equal to 1.0 , n = 233 ) provided support for the existence of clinical subtypes . the pigd group reported significantly greater subjective intellectual , motor , and occupational impairment than the tremor group . stage ii patients had higher depression scores than stage i patients . among the patients participating in the datatop , older age at onset with bradykinesia , or with the pigd form of pd , is associated with more functional disability than when the symptoms are dominated by tremor or begin at a younger age . 
response of the lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome to treatment of associated small-cell lung carcinoma . we evaluated the outcome in 16 patients with lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome ( lems ) associated with histologically verified small-cell carcinoma ( scc ) . thirteen patients received specific tumor therapy ( chemotherapy , radiation therapy , or resection ) and most also received pharmacologic and immunologic treatment for lems . seven of 11 patients surviving for more than 2 months after tumor therapy showed substantial neurologic improvement ( 1 patient being in complete remission at 7 years ) ; in 3 of 11 improvement was transient . an emg index of disease severity ( compound muscle action potential amplitude in abductor digiti minimi ) was significantly increased at final follow-up ( p less than 0.01 ; n = 11 ) . a pretreatment amplitude greater than 3.0 mv was a good prognostic sign . we conclude that a combined treatment approach in scc-lems usually results in neurologic improvement . 
cortical tremor : a variant of cortical reflex myoclonus . two patients with action tremor that was thought to originate in the cerebral cortex showed fine shivering-like finger twitching provoked mainly by action and posture . surface emg showed relatively rhythmic discharge at a rate of about 9 hz , which resembled essential tremor . however , electrophysiologic studies revealed giant somatosensory evoked potentials ( seps ) with enhanced long-loop reflex and premovement cortical spike by the jerk-locked averaging method . treatment with beta-blocker showed no effect , but anticonvulsants such as clonazepam , valproate , and primidone were effective to suppress the tremor and the amplitude of seps . we call this involuntary movement " cortical tremor , " which is in fact a variant of cortical reflex myoclonus . 
topographic mapping of electrophysiologic measures in patients with homonymous hemianopia we analyzed electroencephalographic ( eeg ) activity and spatial distribution of the pattern-reversal visual evoked potential ( pvep ) in 20 patients with unilateral lesions in the retrochiasmal visual pathways . focal abnormalities that were consistent with lesion location were present in the topographically analyzed eeg or vep of 85 % of the patients , compared with a 70 % detection rate for conventional analysis techniques . quantitative analysis of spectrally analyzed eeg revealed focal abnormality in 7 patients whose conventional eeg was interpreted as either normal or diffusely slow . however , focal paroxysmal spikes present in the eeg of 1 patient were missed by eeg mapping , and a false localization of quantitative eeg abnormality contralateral to the lesion occurred in 1 patient . topographic analysis of the pvep was no more sensitive to retrochiasmatic lesions than conventional analysis of 2 lateral occipital electrodes . we conclude that topographic mapping is a valid technique in the detection of localized cerebral lesions . 
dystonia in parkinson 's disease , multiple system atrophy , and progressive supranuclear palsy . adult-onset dystonia-parkinsonism is a syndrome in search of a pathology . we therefore reviewed the literature on dystonic manifestations in autopsy-proven cases of multiple system atrophy ( msa ) , progressive supranuclear palsy ( psp ) , and idiopathic parkinson 's disease ( pd ) . only 6 of 140 autopsy reports of msa remarked on the presence of dystonia in life , but personal observations suggest prominent antecollis may develop at some stage in up to 1/2 of sufferers . similarly , very few ( 15/118 ) clinicopathologic observations on psp included convincing dystonic manifestations , in contrast to some clinical reports where blepharospasm and early limb dystonia were prominent . virtually any form of focal and segmental dystonia may sometimes occur with clinically diagnosed pd , with occasional descriptions of hemidystonia-hemiparkinsonism . however , there is pathologic confirmation of this diagnosis in only 1 case . with many patients thought clinically to have pd proving pathologically to have another cause for their parkinsonism , the true frequency and the range of dystonic manifestations acceptable in pd remain unknown . 
fresnel prisms improve visual perception in stroke patients with homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect . we randomly assigned 39 patients with stroke and homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect to treatment with 15-diopter plastic press-on fresnel prisms ( n = 18 ) or to serve as controls ( n = 21 ) . baseline evaluations of visual perception and activities-of-daily-living ( adl ) function were similar for both groups . after 4 weeks , the prism-treated group performed significantly better than controls on the following : ( 1 ) motor free visual perception test ; ( 2 ) line bisection task ; ( 3 ) line cancellation task ; ( 4 ) harrington flocks visual field screener ; and ( 5 ) tangent screen examination . there was no significant difference in barthel adl assessment at 4 weeks . thus , treatment with 15-diopter fresnel prisms improves visual perception test scores but not adl function in stroke patients with homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect . 
gadolinium-mri in acute transverse myelopathy . a patient with acute transverse myelopathy ( atm ) had serial magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) studies before and after administration of gadolinium ( gd-dtpa ) . gd-dtpa-mri was useful in estimating the pathologic extent and residual deficit expected in atm . 
aggravation of human and experimental myasthenia gravis by contrast media . after observing a 72-year-old myasthenic patient develop an acute myasthenic exacerbation following the administration of routine diagnostic iv contrast material , an observation rarely described in the literature , we used the experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis model in rabbits injected with a contrast agent to simulate the situation . there was significant worsening of the decremental response to 3 hz repetitive nerve stimulation from 40 + / - 29 % to 55 + / - 27 % following the iv administration of contrast agent at doses similar to those used in humans . iv calcium partially reversed this aggravation . caution is merited when myasthenic patients are administered contrast media . 
estrogen deficiency in adolescents and young adults : impact on bone mineral content and effects of estrogen replacement therapy . because the long-term effects of estrogen replacement in adolescents with ovarian failure and hypothalamic amenorrhea have not been previously studied , we conducted a 2-year study of 35 patients to determine factors contributing to baseline bone density measures ( bone density , bone mineral content , and bone width ) and the response to estrogen therapy . estrogen-deficient patients were often profoundly osteopenic by single-photon absorptiometry of the radius and dual-photon absorptiometry of the spine , despite estrogen replacement . variables that were significant predictors of better initial single-photon absorptiometry measurements included increased age , increased body mass index , spontaneous pubertal development , lack of radiation therapy , and lower serum osteocalcin . patients treated with estrogen/progestin had stable cortical bone mineral content and bone density at the distal one-third of the radius , a slight improvement in bone density at the distal one-tenth of the radius , and on encouraging , but marginal , improvement in the z score ( standard deviation from the mean ) of bone mineral content at the distal one-tenth . the z scores for cortical bone width and bone density decreased , suggesting a possible relative worsening over time . in untreated estrogen-deficient girls , bone mineral content and bone density decreased ( but not significantly ) ; the z score of cortical bone width showed a significant decrease . using dual-photon absorptiometry , a history of radiation therapy was found to be a predictor of lower bone density compared with age-matched controls . estrogen progestin therapy did not result in changes in serum levels of lipids and antithrombin iii , weight , or blood pressure . 
magnetic resonance imaging in mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome . six girls with suspected rokitansky syndrome underwent magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) and then sonography and laparoscopy to confirm the clinical diagnosis and define the precise characteristics of the malformation . the uterus was missing in all ; four had mullerian rudiments in place of the uterus , which were cavitary in two as shown by sonography and in one by mri . both ovaries were present in all cases , normally located in four and extrapelvic in two ; they were correctly identified by mri in all cases and by sonography in four . partially canalized vaginal rudiments were recognized by mri in two girls and by sonography in one . one patient had unilateral renal agenesis , demonstrated by both mri and sonography . magnetic resonance imaging was more precise than laparoscopy and sonography in defining the anatomical characteristics of rokitansky syndrome , and is less invasive and expensive than laparoscopy . 
reclosure of disrupted abdominal incisions . we evaluated prospectively a technique of delayed reclosure of disrupted abdominal incisions . forty-one consecutive postoperative obstetric and gynecologic patients with abdominal incisions that had opened because of infection , hematoma , or seroma and had intact fascia participated in the study . all wounds were first managed identically , with surgical drainage and debridement , for a minimum of 4 days . the patients then were randomized to either wound reclosure by a standardized en bloc technique ( 35 ) or healing by second intention ( six ) . reclosure was successful in 30 of 35 cases ( 85.7 % ) . the mean time to complete healing was 15.8 days in successful cases , 67.2 days in failed cases , and 23.2 days for all patients who were reclosed . failure to heal after reclosure was due to subcutaneous infection in two patients and seroma in three ; these women were significantly heavier than those in whom reclosure was successful . there were no other major complications of wound reclosure . patients randomized to healing by second intention required a mean of 71.8 days of wound care . the time to complete healing in the wound-reclosure group was significantly shorter compared with the group that healed by second intention ( p = .002 , log rank test ) . we conclude that en bloc reclosure of disrupted surgical incisions , compared with nonsurgical treatment , significantly decreases the time required for wound healing and has minimal morbidity . 
postoperative urinary tract infection in gynecology : implications for an antibiotic prophylaxis policy . a prospective observational study of postoperative infection after gynecologic surgery assessed the need for antibiotic prophylaxis with special reference to the urinary tract . catheterization requirements in the postoperative period were compared with the development of urinary tract infection after excluding both preoperative and postoperative bacteriuria . forty-six of 115 patients ( 40 % ) developed a urinary tract infection in the postoperative period . furthermore , this was not clearly related to the need for postoperative catheterization . significant wound and vaginal vault infections were uncommon , indicating that antibiotic prophylaxis should be directed specifically at the urinary tract . 
torulopsis glabrata vaginitis : clinical aspects and susceptibility to antifungal agents . torulopsis glabrata is second only to candida albicans in frequency of isolation from the vagina in both asymptomatic women and patients with yeast vaginitis . we retrospectively studied 33 patients from whom vaginal isolates of t glabrata were obtained . torulopsis glabrata caused symptomatic vaginitis in 42 % of the patients but was unassociated with symptoms in 30 % ; in 27 % of patients , its importance was uncertain because of concomitant pathology . antifungal susceptibility testing was performed on 39 t glabrata strains isolated from 39 patients . the minimal inhibitory concentrations ( mics ) of the majority of t glabrata isolates fell within the sensitive range of the antimycotic drugs tested ; however , no correlation was found between in vitro antifungal mics and the response to azole drug therapy . clinical success was achieved in 67 % of the patients although mycologic cure occurred in only 33 % . a small number of patients developed recurrent and often chronic torulopsis vaginitis unresponsive to conventional therapy . limited experience suggests that vaginal boric acid therapy may be of value in these recalcitrant cases . 
human papillomavirus associated with poor healing of episiotomy repairs . a retrospective case-control investigation was conducted for risk factors in 47 parturients whose episiotomies dehisced in the immediate postpartum period . data were extracted from the inpatient , outpatient , and pathology records of each of these 47 patients , as well as from the same records for each of the next two patients who delivered with the same type and degree of episiotomy . no difference between subjects and controls was found for age , parity , or medical history . except for human papillomavirus ( hpv ) , past or present history of sexually transmitted diseases was not a risk factor . however , active lesions , history thereof , or subsequent development of infection with hpv was found in 14 of 47 patients ( 29.8 % ) who had episiotomy breakdown , compared with 13 of 94 women ( 13.8 % ) who did not experience this complication , a statistically significant difference ( p less than .023 ) . eleven subjects ( 23.4 % ) and nine controls ( 9.6 % ) gave a history of smoking during pregnancy , also a statistically significant difference ( p less than .026 ) . 
enhanced anaphylatoxin and terminal c5b-9 complement complex formation in patients with the syndrome of hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count . complement activation was studied in ten consecutive pregnant women developing hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count ( hellp syndrome ) and ten other women with normal pregnancies . blood samples for anaphylatoxin ( c3a/c3a desarg and c5a/c5a desarg ) and terminal c5b-9 complement complex determinations were drawn at delivery and 24 hours and 7 days later . women developing hellp syndrome had higher plasma levels of anaphylatoxins with delivery than did women with uneventful pregnancies . the plasma levels of terminal c5b-9 complement complexes at the time of delivery were increased as compared with levels 1 and 7 days after delivery in women with hellp syndrome . the plasma concentrations of the anaphylatoxins and the terminal c5b-9 complement complexes returned to normal levels within 1 week after delivery in the hellp group . the formation of c5b-9 complement complex indicates that the terminal part of the complement cascade has been activated and that c5a has been formed and eliminated . complement activation with release of anaphylatoxins and terminal c5b-9 complement complexes may be one etiologic factor behind the elevated blood pressure , hemolysis , liver insufficiency , and platelet consumption seen in these patients . 
pregnancy complicated by preeclampsia-eclampsia with the syndrome of hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count : how rapid is postpartum recovery ? the rapidity of postpartum disease recovery for severe preeclampsia associated with hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count ( hellp syndrome ) has not been well studied . between january 1980 and march 1989 , 158 pregnancies with preeclampsia-eclampsia complicated by hellp syndrome were managed at the university of mississippi medical center . the 70 patients with platelet nadir below 50,000 / microl ( class 1 hellp syndrome ) required as long as 11 days for all members to achieve a platelet recovery concentration of more than 100,000 / microl , whereas all 88 gravidas with platelet nadir between 50,000-100 ,000 / microl ( class 2 hellp syndrome ) exceeded this platelet concentration by the sixth postpartum day , a statistically significant difference ( p less than .0001 ) . the interval between delivery and the onset of diuresis ( mean + / - sd ) was significantly longer in class 1 than in class 2 patients with milder disease ( 22.7 + / - 18.9 compared with 15.9 + / - 11.1 hours ) . significantly more postpartum days were required in class 1 than in class 2 hellp parturients for the lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) concentration to decrease below 500 iu/l ( 4.2 + / - 4.9 compared with 3.2 + / - 2.7 days ) . no women in the class 2 group required plasma exchange therapy to effect disease arrest and reversal , but 11 of 58 severely ill women in class 1 were treated with this modality . we conclude that the platelet count and ldh serum concentration , as indicators of hellp severity and recovery , are clinically useful tools and that a more protracted postpartum recovery period should be expected for progressively severe expressions of hellp syndrome . 
control of immediate postoperative pain with topical bupivacaine hydrochloride for laparoscopic falope ring tubal ligation . conflicting reports exist in the literature on the effectiveness of topical local anesthetic applied to the serosal surface of the fallopian tubes for the control of immediate postoperative pain after mechanical ( band or clip ) tubal ligation . sixty-four patients were studied prospectively during outpatient laparoscopic falope ring tubal ligation using the modified mcgill present pain intensity scale . patients randomly assigned to four groups received topical bupivacaine hydrochloride on both fallopian tubes , the right tube only , or the left tube only , or received none ( controls ) . a unique study design was incorporated which allowed the untreated fallopian tube to serve as a within-subject control for each patient receiving unilateral treatment . statistical analysis confirmed significant benefit when both fallopian tubes were treated as compared with no treatment ( p less than .05 ) . there was also consistent evidence of decreased immediate postoperative pain perception on the treated side for patients receiving unilateral treatment . the value of topical bupivacaine was demonstrated by both subjective patient response ( mcgill pain scale ) and reduced need for pain medication before outpatient discharge . our data support the value of topical bupivacaine applied to the serosal surface of the fallopian tubes for the reduction of postoperative pain after outpatient laparoscopic mechanical ( band or clip ) tubal ligation . 
quality assurance indicators and short-term outcome of hysterectomy . fifteen gynecologic quality assurance indicators recently published by the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists were applied to a previously reported hysterectomy data base . chart reviews were performed for the most recent 257 cases in the data base , representing an 18-month interval . the indicators were divided into two groups : those intended to identify morbidity and mortality and those intended to screen for appropriateness of care . rates of actual morbidity and cases that failed to meet published criteria sets for hysterectomy were determined by chart review regardless of the presence of a quality assurance indicator . a total of 135 indicators were identified in 114 ( 44 % ) of the 257 cases , including 64 patients ( 25 % ) with morbidity indicators and 50 ( 19 % ) with appropriateness indicators . actual morbidity was correctly identified in all 64 cases in which morbidity indicators were present . three cases with significant morbidity were identified by chart review but not identified by the indicators , yielding positive and negative predictive values of 100 and 98 % , respectively , and an overall accuracy of 99 % for morbidity indicators . by contrast , 14 of the 50 cases in which appropriateness indicators were present actually failed to meet published criteria sets . an additional seven cases failing to meet criteria sets were identified by chart review and not identified by the indicators , yielding a positive predictive value of 28 % , a negative predictive value of 97 % , and an overall accuracy of 83 % for appropriateness indicators . 
primary mass closure of midline incisions with a continuous polyglyconate monofilament absorbable suture . mass closure of midline incisions with a running large-bore permanent monofilament polypropylene suture has been used in general surgery and gynecology patients with a reported small incidence of fascial dehiscence . late-occurring wound sinus formation is one problem reported with the use of this permanent suture material . over a 22-month period , 285 patients had midline incisions closed with a continuous , running no . 1 polyglyconate monofilament delayed absorbable suture . closely spaced bites ( about 1.5 cm apart ) were taken and placed 2 cm lateral to the fascial edge . over 60 % of the patients had surgery because of gynecologic cancer . other high-risk factors included obesity in 62 % , diabetes in 19 % , and previous irradiation or chemotherapy in 22 % . an ovarian cancer staging procedure was done in 16 % of the patients . of the remaining patients , almost half had extensive operative procedures that ranged from exenterations to hysterectomies with lymph node dissection . wound complications were noted in nine patients ( 3.2 % ) . seven had superficial infections , one had an evisceration , and one developed a ventral hernia . wound sinuses did not occur . the closure technique is safe and expedient and distributes tension equally over a continuous line . it has the additional advantage of eventual absorption of the suture material , thereby avoiding the wound sinus problems occasionally reported with large-bore permanent sutures . 
window operation : an alternative treatment method for bartholin gland cysts and abscesses recently , we developed the " window operation " as a more effective way to treat bartholin gland cysts and abscesses . the window operation was used to treat 25 bartholin cysts and 22 bartholin abscesses during a 3-year period from october 1 , 1986 to september 30 , 1989 . under local anesthesia , a small piece of skin including the cyst wall was excised in an oval shape , and suturing was performed along the excised margin . postoperative antibiotics were given in cases of acute inflammation . a new mucocutaneous junction was observed at the 4-week postoperative checkup . no complications or recurrences have been observed during the study period . the window operation can be an alternative method of treatment for bartholin gland cysts or abscesses . 
prolapse of a neovagina created by self-dilatation . in patients with congenital absence of the vagina , a neovagina may be created by either operative or nonoperative techniques . a 25-year-old patient with a neovagina created by self-dilatation developed complete prolapse of the neovagina with an enterocele . a transabdominal sacral colpopexy successfully suspended the vaginal vault and allowed the patient to resume sexual function . 
vaginal mullerian cyst presenting as an anterior enterocele : a case report . a case is discussed of an extremely large vaginal mullerian cyst that presented as an anterior enterocele . sonographic and radiologic studies are described . the patient underwent operative excision of the cyst with reconstructive vaginoplasty . 
laparoscopic repair of bladder injury . this case report describes laparoscopic suturing for bladder repair . this technique affords the laparoscopic surgeon another means of managing a surgical complication without resorting to laparotomy . 
ovarian suspension in massive ovarian edema . massive ovarian edema is an uncommon condition found in young women that is speculated to occur as a result of incomplete ovarian torsion . we present the second patient to our knowledge to undergo ovarian suspension as a treatment for this condition . this approach succeeded after ovarian wedge resection had failed . our patient remained symptom-free at 1 year of follow-up . ovarian suspension should be considered when this pathologic entity is diagnosed . 
rectovulvar fistula in a child secondary to an unusual foreign body . foreign bodies in the female genital tract are well recognized as a cause of pain , discharge , secretions , and infection . in the small child , the presence of a vaginal discharge is usually associated with either a common object which has been inserted or sexual abuse complicated by a sexually transmitted disease . a 3-year-old child presented with a recurrent labial secretion and drainage due to an unusual foreign body . it was only during a second operation that the possibility of a foreign body was entertained , and diagnostic testing was begun . a third operation permitted removal of the foreign body , a large bone probably of animal origin . the fistula tract was closed after a colostomy was performed . this represents the first reported case of a rectovulvar fistula not of a congenital nature . 
combined vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a vaginal foreign body . a case is presented of vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a neglected vaginal foreign body . the patient complained of a foul-smelling vaginal discharge and was found to have a 4-cm hard vaginal mass on examination . urinary incontinence developed subsequently . examination under anesthesia was performed , and an aerosol deodorant cap was operatively removed from her posterior vagina/perirectal space . subsequent work-up demonstrated the presence of both a vesicovaginal fistula and a right ureterovaginal fistula . the patient underwent a combined vaginal repair of the vesicovaginal fistula and abdominal ureteroneocystostomy . the frequency , types , etiology , and treatment of genitourinary fistulas are reviewed with particular attention to those associated with a vaginal foreign body . 
clomiphene citrate stimulation as an adjunct in locating ovarian tissue in ovarian remnant syndrome . ovarian remnant syndrome results from residual ovarian tissue after bilateral oophorectomy . the syndrome is associated with chronic pelvic pain and is suspected when premenopausal levels of fsh and lh are present in a patient with documented bilateral oophorectomy . histologic demonstration of ovarian tissue at operation confirms the diagnosis . we treated a patient with ovarian remnant syndrome with a 10-day course of clomiphene citrate , 100 mg daily , to stimulate the residual ovarian tissue and facilitate localization . preoperative ultrasound revealed a 5.0 x 3.5 x 6.2-cm cystic mass in the right adnexal region . exploratory laparotomy easily localized the mass , and it was removed intact . histologic slides demonstrated normal ovarian tissue with multiple follicles in various stages of development and a corpus luteum cyst . clomiphene citrate is capable of stimulating an ovarian remnant , producing an enlarged , cystic structure easily localized by ultrasound . the increased size and preoperative knowledge of the location facilitated surgical removal . 
hyperthecosis of the ovaries in a woman with a placental site trophoblastic tumor . rapidly increasing testosterone levels were observed in a patient presenting with sudden onset of virilization . exploratory laparotomy revealed a placental site trophoblastic tumor in the uterus . wedge biopsies of the ovaries showed extensive luteinization of the ovarian stroma in both ovaries . concentrations of testosterone , dihydrotestosterone , and androstenedione were markedly increased in the ovarian vein serum , indicating ovaries as the source of these steroids . the serum concentration of hcg was 69 miu/ml . pulsatile secretion of lh persisted in spite of elevated hcg levels . follicle-stimulating hormone levels were low or undetectable . elevated hcg levels and low fsh levels resulted in a hormonal environment similar to that seen in polycystic ovary disease ( high lh to fsh ratio ) , resulting in extensive stromal luteinization . decline in hcg levels after removal of the tumor resulted in the return of androgen levels to normal . 
angiographic arterial embolization and computed tomography-directed drainage for the management of hemorrhage and infection with abdominal pregnancy . hemorrhage during or after surgery , pelvic abscess , bowel obstruction , and prolonged febrile morbidity can complicate the puerperal course of the gravida after removal of an extrauterine fetus with nondisturbance of the extrauterine placenta . in this report we describe the successful angiographic arterial gelfoam embolization of the placental vascular bed to control heavy postoperative hemorrhage in a mother suffering adult respiratory distress syndrome after removal of the fetal portion of her abdominal pregnancy . six weeks later , computed tomography ( ct ) - directed drainage by catheter of a placental abscess was performed . selective angiographic transcatheter embolization with gelfoam is a useful tool for the control of hemorrhage in the gravida who is an unfavorable operative candidate or who may present technical hemostasis problems peculiar to the placenta with abdominal pregnancy . later use of ct-directed catheter drainage of the infected residual placental mass provided a nonoperative means of treatment . 
monozygotic twins discordant for partial trisomy 1 . a 25-year-old primigravida delivered monozygotic twins discordant for multiple anomalies and partial trisomy 1 mosaicism . the phenotype of partial trisomy 1 includes craniofacial , central nervous system , and ocular anomalies . the most likely explanation for these findings is that the translocation occurred after twinning occurred . this observation emphasizes that monozygotic twins are not necessarily genetically identical . they are identical at conception , but subsequent mutation and rearrangement of the genome may cause substantial phenotypic differences . 
congenital chyloperitoneum as a cause of isolated fetal ascites . isolated fetal ascites is an unusual prenatal finding and must be differentiated from immune and nonimmune hydrops . this entity is most commonly associated with gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies . fetal chyloperitoneum , however , should be considered as a possible cause . pulmonary hypoplasia and abdominal dystocia during attempted vaginal delivery are potential complications . we present a case of isolated fetal ascites due to congenital chyloperitoneum . 
ascites not due to congestive heart failure in a fetus with lupus-induced heart block . hydrops developing in fetuses with lupus-associated heart block has usually been assumed to result from congestive heart failure . we present a case in which fetal ascites associated with complete heart block resolved promptly after administration of betamethasone and prednisone to the mother , who had anti-ssa and who developed clinical lupus erythematosus . this resolution occurred with no demonstrable change in fetal cardiac function . we conclude that an immune mechanism , rather than congestive heart failure , was responsible for the fetal ascites . 
fetomaternal bleeding as a cause of recurrent fetal morbidity and mortality . a woman had fetomaternal bleeding of unknown cause during at least three of five pregnancies . each event was associated with significant fetal morbidity or mortality . although fetomaternal bleeding has been reported as a cause of unexplained fetal death , its occurrence in subsequent pregnancies has not been described previously . 
use of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of cortical blindness in pregnancy . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) may be helpful in the assessment of eclampsia and preeclampsia with central nervous system symptomatology such as cortical blindness . we describe a rare case of complete binocular blindness postpartum with no other neurologic deficits , in which mri abnormalities were undetected on computed tomography . the better soft-tissue discrimination of mri may visualize important but subtle lesions which ultimately may help to explain the underlying pathophysiologic mechanism in such cases . 
umbilical cord hematoma following diagnostic funipuncture . major complications associated with funipuncture have been reported but are rare . this is a report of a diagnostic funipuncture performed on a 29-week fetus with a single umbilical artery and multiple malformations . immediately after the procedure , a voluminous hematoma developed at the site of needle insertion in association with a severe fetal bradycardia . fetal death was confirmed within 5 minutes of needle insertion . it is hypothesized that the risk of complications of funipuncture may vary according to the clinical indication for the procedure and may be increased in the presence of certain fetal malformations . the rapid evolution of complications , as occurred in the present case , underlines the importance of having a clear plan of management in the event of mishap and discussing this plan with the parents before undertaking diagnostic funipuncture . 
the modified superior based pharyngeal flap . part iii . a retrospective study . a retrospective study of 31 patients who had diagnosed velopharyngeal incompetence and were surgically managed with the modified superior based pharyngeal flap was completed . the following were analyzed : age at time of operation , gender , physical status , diagnostic protocol , length of operation ( length of total surgery ) and length of superior based pharyngeal flap , length of postoperative hospital stay , length of total hospital stay , length of follow-up , speech results , complications , patient care , and medication . the result showed that the optimal timing for correction of velopharyngeal incompetence was between 3 and 6 years of age . the mean length of total hospital stay was 2.7 days , postoperative complications were minimal , and speech results were generally good . 
oral squamous cell carcinoma arising in a patient with long-standing lichen planus . a case report . the risk of malignant transformation of oral lichen planus remains a controversial point . many previous reports have been discounted on the basis of inadequate information or lack of histologic confirmation of lichen planus . we report a well-documented case of long-standing cutaneous and oral lichen planus in which squamous cell carcinoma of the dorsal portion of the tongue occurred . there is an apparent difference in the sites of oral carcinomas in patients with lichen planus compared with the general population . this suggests that lichen planus increases the risk of oral cancer in affected sites . 
premature alveolar bone loss in erdheim-chester disease . erdheim-chester disease is a rare histiocytosis also known as lipoid granulomatosis . oral findings have not been reported previously to our knowledge . this case report documents evidence of oral sequelae of erdheim-chester disease . a patient whose course was followed for 10 years at the national institutes of health had premature alveolar bone resorption . he underwent full-mouth extraction at age 29 years because of severe periodontitis . histopathologic evidence of erdheim-chester disease was demonstrated in the periodontal soft tissues . in the ensuring years , accelerated resorption of the residual ridges precluded the use of conventional dentures . we recommend early preventive dental management for patients with erdheim-chester disease . 
differences between florid osseous dysplasia and chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis . florid osseous dysplasia ( fod ) is confused in the literature with chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis . two cases of each condition are presented to demonstrate the differences between them . in fod , there are multiple lobulated sclerotic masses in several quadrants of the jaws , usually in black females . in some cases , the sclerotic masses are exposed to the oral cavity , resulting in a secondary osteomyelitis . periapical cemental dysplasia is often found in association with fod . chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis is a primary inflammatory condition of the mandible . patients have cyclic episodes of unilateral pain and swelling . the affected region of the mandible exhibits a diffuse opacity with poorly defined borders . although women are affected more often than men , black persons are not particularly susceptible . 
hyaline ring granuloma : a distinct oral entity . hyaline ring granuloma ( hrg ) is a distinct oral entity . in this study , 64 cases from the literature are analyzed and two new cases are reported . the lesions could be classified by location as central hyaline ring granuloma ( 42 % ) and peripheral hyaline ring granuloma ( 53 % ) . radiographically , a radiolucent area irregularly outlined by well-formed trabeculae of bone was found in central hrg , and a poorly defined erosion at the crest of the alveolar ridge was often found in peripheral hrg . occasionally , the lesion occurred in the connective tissue wall of cysts ( 5 % ) . the etiology of this condition is controversial , but most lesions were in edentulous areas and most patients had a history of tooth extraction or other trauma . the majority of cases ( 83 % ) occurred in the mandible , usually posterior to the premolar . the mean age of patients at diagnosis was 43 years , and the male/female ratio was 1.9:1 . pain was not a symptom , although local discomfort , such as recurrent swelling and tenderness , was noted in many cases . hyaline rings with giant cell inclusions are the significant features for histopathologic diagnosis . hrg is treated by curettage or surgical excision , care being taken to remove the entire lesion . the removal of a peripheral hrg in an edentulous jaw should be followed by careful smoothing of the bone surface , since the lesion tends to infiltrate and is not well demarcated . recurrence , probably due to incomplete excision , is uncommon . 
a clarification on endodontic flare-ups [ comment ] in an article on endodontic flare-ups by robert j. matusow , our research and publications are discussed . since we found what we consider to be distortions and misinterpretations of our work , it was decided to clarify the apparent discrepancies found in matusow 's article . 
the radiologic morphology of painful temporomandibular joints . a high frequency of remodeling changes was demonstrated radiographically in a series of patients having pain in the temporomandibular joint region . radiologic morphologic differences between painful and asymptomatic temporomandibular joints were in frequency rather than type . caution should be taken not to overestimate the significance of radiologic abnormality in patients with pain in the temporomandibular joint region . 
a histologic evaluation of the accuracy of tmj diagnostic arthroscopy . sixty-seven temporomandibular joints with internal derangement were examined with arthroscopy , and synovial biopsies were taken for histologic evaluation . histologically , in 10 cases , the synovium appeared to be normal in appearance , 24 cases had moderate to severe synovitis , 11 cases showed hyperplastic synovitis , 13 cases showed synovial fibrosis , and foreign body granuloma was found in 9 cases . correlation between arthroscopic observation and histologic findings disclosed an 89.1 % specificity and 100 % sensitivity . 
diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible : a new concept of its etiology . diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible is a disease of unknown etiology . the clinical and radiographic findings suggest an infectious origin , but bacteriologic and histologic findings do not support this concept . analysis of clinical symptoms , localization of the condition , and posttreatment findings in a group of 27 patients suggest a chronic tendoperiostitis due to muscular overuse as an etiologic factor in diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible . this hypothesis was supported by the initial results of muscle relaxation treatment in 13 of these patients . 
a dentofacial deformity associated with incontinentia pigmenti : report of a case . a case of ip in a 16-year-old girl has been presented . this patient manifested classic ectodermal and mesodermal anomalies . we present this case to illustrate a rare etiologic factor in the development of dentofacial deformities that can be treated in the conventional manner . 
patient compliance -- a factor in facial trauma repair . the clinical records of 25 consecutive patients who were treated for facial trauma were reviewed and analyzed to ascertain what effect patient cooperation had on the outcome of facial fracture repair . the study was designed to establish the incidence of complications and to discover what factors contributed to untoward sequela in such patients . overall , 15 patients ( 60 % ) were noncompliant in one or more aspects of their care . six patients ( 24 % ) had significant postoperative complications associated with their facial injuries . four of these patients were not fully cooperative . 
dental patient reaction to electrocardiogram screening . ninety-one patients receiving routine dental treatment at the university of minnesota school of dentistry participated in an electrocardiogram screening study . the purpose of the study was to evaluate patient reaction to electrocardiogram screening in a dental school clinic . the vast majority of patients indicated the test was easy and did not intrude on the dental appointment . most of the patients reported that the test was a valuable service and should be available in the dental office . none of the patients indicated that the tests should not be performed in the dental office . few patients expressed any significant concern or anxiety about the test either before or after it was completed . twenty-six percent ( 24/91 ) of the patients were found to have a cardiac arrhythmia ; however , most of these were nonserious arrhythmias ( 18/24 ) and would not have had an impact on planned dental procedures . six patients were identified with arrhythmias that required medical referral before dental treatment was started . 
interferon activation of latent natural killer cells and alteration in kinetics of target cell lysis : clinical implications for oral precancerous lesions . reduced natural killer cell activity was observed in patients with oral leukoplakia and submucous fibrosis compared with normal control subjects . however , the number of target binding lymphocytes was found to be normal in these precancers . treatment of effector cells with interferon-alpha resulted in highly elevated active killer cell activity , although no change was observed in target binding lymphocyte counts . this finding could imply that precytotoxic cells that are activated by interferon exist in peripheral blood or that direct recruitment of a new cell population takes place . in addition , altered target lysis kinetics was observed , with interferon-activated killer cells demonstrating a tremendous lytic activation that is completed so quickly that a statistical kinetic analysis could not be accurately done . because natural killer cell activity is an important effector system in immunosurveillance against tumors , its modulation with interferon may be an exciting clinical possibility in the control of malignant transformation or oral precancers . 
periapical lesions of mandibular bone : difficulties in early diagnostics . it is often difficult to establish a correct diagnosis on the basis of initial clinical and roentgenologic symptoms in mandibular bone disease . in this paper these problems are discussed , and some suggestions are made to overcome them . the discussion is based on cases of osteogenic sarcoma , histiocytic lymphoma , and chronic osteomyelitis . the patients were a boy and two middle-aged women , all of them with primary clinical symptoms of pain and swelling , diffuse roentgenologic changes in mandibular bone , uncertain response to treatment , and an unusual progress of the disease . 
the effects of tartar-control toothpaste on the oral soft tissues . ninety-two dental and dental hygiene students completed a double-blind , controlled clinical trial . the purpose of the trial was to evaluate the effects of toothpastes , in varying concentrations of flavor and tartar-control agents . four formulations of toothpastes were assessed : ( a ) control-low flavor with no tartar control ; ( b ) medium flavoring with medium tartar control ; ( c ) high flavoring with medium tartar control ; and ( d ) medium flavoring with no tartar control . soft tissue reactions were assessed objectively and independently by three examiners . subjective perceptions about each toothpaste were gathered by a structured , open-ended questionnaire . the " tartar control " toothpastes , b and c , resulted in statistically significant ( p less than 0.005 ) higher rates of mucosal reactions ( e.g. , ulceration , sloughing , erythema , migratory glossitis ) than the " non-tartar control " toothpastes a and d. when the oral mucosal reaction rates were adjusted for multiple clinical observations within each subject at the same point in time there was no statistically significant ( p greater than 0.05 ) difference between male ( 0.25 ) and female ( 0.28 ) subjects . in this study population , the order of preference was observed as toothpaste a greater than d greater than b greater than c. the major reasons for disfavor were burning sensation in toothpastes c ( 2.4 % ) and b ( 4 % ) . 
amenorrhea , osteopenia , and the female athlete . athletic amenorrhea is a problem because it is associated with an increased risk of injuries and potentially an increased risk of osteoporosis in later life . this article gives suggestions for the evaluation of the athlete with amenorrhea and for treatment protocols . primary care physicians should routinely screen female adolescent athletes for amenorrhea and , if athletic amenorrhea is present , initiate treatment or referral for treatment for this important problem with short - and long-term complications . 
phenobarbital and cerebral blood flow during hypertension in the newborn beagle . phenobarbital sodium has been used in anticonvulsant concentrations ( 15 to 40 micrograms/ml serum ) in premature newborns in attempts to prevent periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages . although its clinical usefulness in this regard is controversial , phenobarbital treatment has been shown to reduce periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages after hypertensive insult in newborn beagles . in this study cerebral blood flow values in steady state and during phenylephrine-induced hypertension with and without phenobarbital pretreatment were measured in newborn beagles . at anticonvulsant dosage , phenobarbital sodium decreased mean arterial blood pressure transiently during steady state and significantly reduced total cerebral blood flow during phenylephrine-induced hypertension without reducing mean arterial blood pressure . this phenobarbital sodium effect on cerebral blood flow was not as great in the presence of acidosis , and the initial hypotensive effect of phenobarbital sodium was sustained for a longer period of time during acidosis . phenobarbital sodium may reduce the incidence of hemorrhages in the newborn brain by providing protection against isolated hemodynamic stresses characterized by acute increases in cerebral blood flow , with or without increased mean arterial blood pressure . 
chronic fetal hypoxia and sudden infant death syndrome : interaction between maternal smoking and low hematocrit during pregnancy . to investigate the hypothesis that chronic fetal hypoxia contributes to the etiology of sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) , a possible interaction between the effect of maternal cigarette smoking and low hematocrit during pregnancy on the risk of sids was studied using the us collaborative perinatal project cohort . the 193 sids cases identified in the cohort were analyzed with 1930 controls randomly selected from infants who survived the first year of life . after adjustment for maternal age , infants born to mothers who smoked 10 or more cigarettes per day and who were anemic ( hematocrit less than 30 % ) during pregnancy were at a much higher risk of sids than infants born to mothers who did not smoke and were not anemic ( odds ratio = 4.0 ; 95 % confidence limits , 2.1 and 7.4 ) . smoking 10 or more cigarettes per day vs none increased the risk of sids by 70 % among women with hematocrit at or above 30 % but increased risk threefold among women with hematocrit below 30 % . after adjustment for more potential confounders in a logistic regression model , the effect of smoking on sids continued to increase with lower levels of hematocrit during pregnancy . birth weight accounted for very little of these associations . low hematocrit was not a risk factor for sids among nonsmokers but became an important predictor among heavy smokers . these findings are in agreement with the hypothesis that chronic fetal hypoxia may predispose to sids , possibly by impairing the normal development of the fetal central nervous system . 
early solid feeding and recurrent childhood eczema : a 10-year longitudinal study . the relationship between early solid feeding practices and risks of recurrent or chronic eczema in childhood was examined in a birth cohort of new zealand children studied to the age of 10 . by the age of 10 years , 7.5 % of children had chronic or recurrent eczema . there were clear and consistent associations between the diversity of the child 's diet during the first 4 months and risks of eczema . even when due allowance was made for a range of confounding factors -- including parental atopic illness , atopic illness in siblings , the child 's early milk diet , and family social background -- children exposed to four or more different types of solid food before 4 months had risks of recurrent or chronic eczema that were 2.9 times those of children who were not exposed to early solid feeding . it is concluded that early exposure to a diet diverse in potential food antigens may act to predispose susceptible children to recurrent or chronic childhood eczema . 
febrile status epilepticus as part of a study of status epilepticus in children ( maytal j , shinnar s , moshe sl , alvarez la . pediatrics . 1989 ; 83:323 -331 ) ; 44 children with febrile convulsions lasting more than 30 minutes were followed for a mean of 28 months ( range 4 to 72 ) . thirty children were followed prospectively . children with prior afebrile seizures or evidence of acute central nervous system infection were excluded . nine ( 20 % ) children had prior neurological deficits . the duration of the febrile seizure was 0.5 to 1 hour in 41 cases ( 85 % ) , 1 to 2 hours in 5 ( 10 % ) , and greater than 2 hours in 2 children ( 5 % ) . no child died or developed new neurological deficits following the seizures . the risk of recurrent seizures was increased , but only in the group with prior neurological abnormality . six ( 66 % ) of these children had subsequent febrile seizures compared with 12 ( 34 % ) of the normal children ( p = .08 ) . three ( 33 % ) had recurrent febrile status epilepticus compared with only 1 ( 3 % ) normal child ( p = .023 ) . the 2 children in the prospective arm of the study with recurrent febrile status epilepticus were both neurologically abnormal ( p = .035 ) . all 3 of the children who subsequently had afebrile seizures ( 2 prospective ) were neurologically abnormal ( p = .006 overall , p = .035 for prospective only ) . it is concluded that the occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in a neurologically impaired child is a risk factor for subsequent febrile as well as afebrile seizures . the occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in an otherwise normal child does not significantly increase the risk for subsequent febrile ( brief or prolonged ) or afebrile seizures in the first few years following the episode . 
absent or minimal cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities in haemophilus influenzae meningitis . a case of haemophilus influenzae type b ( hib ) meningitis in which the diagnosis and treatment were delayed because of normal cerebrospinal fluid analysis is presented . a retrospective review was conducted at two children 's hospitals to determine the frequency and clinical characteristics of patients with hib meningitis whose spinal fluid had a normal total white blood cell count , normal chemistries , and negative gram stain , but subsequent growth of hib in culture . of 379 cases of hib meningitis , two had completely normal csf , and two had csf containing small numbers of polymorphonuclear cells as the sole abnormality . in three of the four cases , the duration of symptoms was less than 24 hours , and appropriate therapy was significantly delayed because of benign-appearing csf . normal csf cell counts , chemistries , and gram stain do not exclude the possibility of bacterial meningitis , and one should remain suspicious when a child has clinical findings suggesting meningitis . 
emergency intraosseous infusion in severely burned children . severely burned patients require rapid administration of large volumes of isotonic fluids . obtaining adequate intravenous ( iv ) access in children with greater than 70 % total body surface area burns may be difficult , time-consuming , and sometimes impossible . this report describes the use of intraosseous infusion technique as a life-saving means of establishing iv access in two severely burned children . 
avulsion of the rectus femoris tendon : an unusual type of pelvic fracture . we present the case of a 15-year-old boy evaluated in the emergency department after sustaining an acute hip injury during track and field practice . pelvic radiograph demonstrated an avulsion fracture of the anterior inferior iliac spine . review of the literature reveals this to be a well recognized , yet unusual and interesting injury . 
rapid sequence anesthesia induction for emergency intubation . emergency intubations are done for a variety of reasons in the emergency department ( ed ) . in some patients , a rapid , controlled induction of anesthesia is useful to facilitate intubation and to reduce the complications of intubation . this is referred to a rapid sequence induction ( rsi ) in the anesthesia literature . atropine , thiopental , fentanyl , diazepam , ketamine , vecuronium , succinylcholine , other drugs and their applications for rsi are described . the purpose of this article is to describe the use of rsi in the airway management of ed patients . nineteen pediatric patients requiring emergency intubation were intubated using rsi with vecuronium and thiopental . actual intubation difficulty using rsi was significantly less than the anticipated intubation difficulty without rsi . there were no complications caused by intubation or rsi that had a significant impact on patient outcome . we feel that a sedative in combination with vecuronium represents the most optimal means of achieving rsi in the ed setting . although the induction of general anesthesia is best done by anesthesiologists , emergency physicians are often the most experienced physicians immediately available to manage an airway in a critical emergency . an objective protocol such as that described will make it easier for emergency physicians to perform this procedure when needed . 
outpatient management of burns in children . the majority of burn wound management can be performed on an outpatient basis by the primary care physician or emergency physician . the physician , however , needs to know when to refer the patient for surgical evaluation and must be reasonably certain that the family will be compliant with wound care and follow-up . fire prevention counselling still remains one of the most important aspects of burn management . 
chest pain in teenagers . when is it significant ? chest pain in teenagers often has no obvious organic cause . onset of symptoms with an emotionally stressful situation may indicate psychogenic chest pain . the differential diagnosis also includes cardiac , musculoskeletal , gastrointestinal , and respiratory disorders . routine testing generally does not help to establish a diagnosis and may even do harm by reinforcing a patient 's unspoken fear of serious illness . most teenagers with chest pain have no such illness , and symptoms usually resolve without therapy . an important role for primary care physicians is to provide support during evaluation and follow-up . 
bell 's palsy . ensuring the best possible outcome . bell 's palsy is thought to be an idiopathic polyneuritis and must be distinguished from other disorders that cause facial weakness . in most cases , differentiation can be accomplished on the basis of the history , physical examination , and clinical course . routine follow-up care ensures that recovery is occurring . electrodiagnostic testing often helps to assess prognosis . eye care and corticosteroid therapy are recommended . 
the infant with a reddish diaper . the infant with a reddish diaper presents a diagnostic challenge to the primary care physician . as described by dr baumgardner , the cause may be benign , but more ominous disorders must be ruled out . 
understanding dizziness . how to decipher this nonspecific symptom . dizziness is a common but often nonspecific symptom . through careful history taking and physical examination , primary care physicians can usually determine the type of sensation ( vertigo or light-headedness ) and its source . although most causes of dizziness are benign , disorders of the central nervous system tend to be ominous and require immediate referral to a specialist . 
medical treatment and prevention of peptic ulcer disease . many agents seem to be equally effective for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease . this is true despite the drugs ' varied mechanisms of action , and this observation has caused investigators to shift their focus from aggressive to defensive factors when studying ulcer pathogenesis . patients with a healed ulcer are always at risk for recurrence , and guidelines are available for management of these patients . ulcer prevention becomes a crucial issue in intensive care units where critically ill patients have many known risk factors . maintaining a gastric ph above 4.0 appears to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with such stress-induced ulcers . use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs increases ulcer risk and complications in the elderly , in women with rheumatoid arthritis , and in smokers and abusers of alcohol . prophylaxis with the synthetic prostaglandin analogue misoprostol ( cytotec ) appears to reduce this risk . 
initial management of trauma . the first 5 minutes . trauma is the leading cause of death in young americans and is responsible for the loss of more productive years of life than heart disease and cancer combined . initial management of trauma consists of the establishment or maintenance of a patent airway , ensurance of adequate breathing , and resuscitation of the circulation . all of these are accomplished simultaneously with a cursory survey to identify immediately life-threatening injuries and to prevent permanent disability . 
down-regulation of a calmodulin-related gene during transformation of human mammary epithelial cells . a human cdna library obtained from cultured normal mammary epithelial cells ( hmecs ) was searched by subtractive hybridization for genes whose decrease in expression might be relevant to epithelial transformation . one clone identified by this procedure corresponded to a 1.4-kilobase mrna , designated nb-1 , whose expression was decreased greater than 50-fold in hmecs tumorigenically transformed in vitro after exposure to benzo [ a ] pyrene and kirsten sarcoma virus . sequence analysis of nb-1 cdna revealed an open reading frame with a high degree of homology to calmodulin . nb-1 expression could be demonstrated by polymerase chain reaction amplification in normal breast , prostate , cervix , and epidermal tissues . the presence of nb-1 transcripts was variable in primary breast carcinoma tissues and undetectable in tumor-derived cell lines of breast , prostate , or other origins . nb-1 mrna expression could be down-regulated in cultured hmecs by exposure to reconstituted extracellular matrix material , while exposure to transforming growth factor type beta increased its relative abundance . the protein encoded by nb-1 may have ca2 + binding properties and perform functions similar to those of authentic calmodulin . its possible roles in differentiation and/or suppression of tumorigenicity in epithelial tissues remain to be examined . 
tumorigenic 3t3 cells maintain an alkaline intracellular ph under physiological conditions . one of the earliest events in the response of mammalian cells to mitogens is activation of na + / h + exchange , which increases intracellular ph ( phin ) in the absence of hco3 - or at external ph values below 7.2 . the proliferative response can be blocked by preventing the phin increase ; yet , the proliferative response can not be stimulated by artificially raising phin with weak bases or high medium ph. these observations support the hypothesis that optimal phin is a necessary , but not sufficient , component of the proliferative-response sequence . this hypothesis has recently been challenged by the observation that transfection of nih 3t3 cells with yeast h ( + ) - atpase renders them tumorigenic . although previous measurements indicated that these transfected cells maintain a higher phin in the absence of hco3 - , whether h ( + ) - atpase transfection raised the phin under physiologically relevant conditions was not known . the current report shows that these transfected cells do maintain a higher phin than control cells in the presence of hco3 - , supporting the possibility that elevated phin is a proliferative trigger in situ . we also show that these cells are serum-independent for growth and that they glycolyze much more rapidly than phenotypically normal cells . 
simian virus 40 small tumor antigen and an amino-terminal domain of large tumor antigen share a common transforming function . the 82-residue amino-terminal sequences of simian virus 40 large tumor antigen ( tag ) and small tumor antigen ( tag ) are identical . genetic analysis of tag lacking amino acids 1-82 revealed that it was transformation-defective , as revealed by the agar growth assay , except when introduced in the presence of tag . since the latter , alone , lacks overt transforming activity , it would appear that the function of the sequence common to tag and tag is necessary , but not sufficient , for tag transforming activity and that tag can provide that function or its equivalent in trans . thus , tag may , in part , be viewed as a " portable " copy of a tag functional domain . 
identification and characterization of a regulated promoter element in the epidermal growth factor receptor gene . we have identified a 36-base-pair proximal element ( -112 to -77 relative to the aug translation initiation codon ) in the epidermal growth factor receptor 5 ' region that functions as a promoter ; mediates inductive responses to epidermal growth factor , phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate , and cyclic amp ; and acts in an orientation-independent manner . this region functions as an enhancer when transferred to a heterologous promoter containing a tata box . mutations within the 36-base-pair region alter function as assayed by reporter gene expression in recipient cells . a protein has been identified that demonstrates appropriate binding specificity to mutant dna sequences that correlates with promoter activity observed in vivo . on the basis of dna binding characteristics and size , the identified protein appears distinct from several previously identified transcription factors known to bind to g+c - rich regions . 
identification and preliminary characterization of protein-cysteine farnesyltransferase . ras proteins must be isoprenylated at a conserved cysteine residue near the carboxyl terminus ( cys-186 in mammalian ras p21 proteins ) in order to exert their biological activity . previous studies indicate that an intermediate in the mevalonate pathway , most likely farnesyl pyrophosphate , is the donor of this isoprenyl group . inhibition of mevalonate synthesis reverts the abnormal phenotypes induced by the mutant ras2val-19 gene in saccharomyces cerevisiae and blocks the maturation of xenopus oocytes induced by an oncogenic ras p21 protein of human origin . these results have raised the possibility of using inhibitors of the mevalonate pathway to block the transforming properties of ras oncogenes . unfortunately , mevalonate is a precursor of various end products essential to mammalian cells , such as dolichols , ubiquinones , heme a , and cholesterol . in this study , we describe an enzymatic activity ( ies ) capable of catalyzing the farnesylation of unprocessed ras p21 proteins in vitro at the correct ( cys-186 ) residue . this farnesylating activity is heat-labile , requires mg2 + or mn2 + ions , is linear with time and with enzyme concentration , and is present in all mammalian cell lines and tissues tested . gel filtration analysis of a partially purified preparation of protein farnesyltransferase revealed two peaks of activity at 250-350 kda and 80-130 kda . availability of an in vitro protein farnesyltransferase assay should be useful in screening for potential inhibitors of ras oncogene function that will not interfere with other aspects of the mevalonate pathway . 
u1 small nuclear rna plays a direct role in the formation of a rev-regulated human immunodeficiency virus env mrna that remains unspliced . rev-regulated expression of hiv-1 envelope proteins from a simian virus 40 late replacement vector was found to be dependent on the presence of a 5 ' splice site in the env mrna in spite of the fact that this mrna remains unspliced . when the 5 ' splice site upstream of the env open reading frame was deleted or mutated , expression of envelope protein was lost . rna analysis of cells transfected with 5 ' splice-site mutants showed a dramatic reduction in the steady-state levels of env mrna whether or not rev was present . envelope expression could be restored in one of the 5 ' splice-site mutants by cotransfection with a plasmid expressing a suppressor u1 small nuclear rna containing a compensatory mutation . these experiments show that u1 small nuclear rna plays a direct and essential role in the formation of an unspliced rna that is subject to regulation by rev. 
transforming growth factor beta stimulates mammary adenocarcinoma cell invasion and metastatic potential . the experimental metastatic potential of 13762nf mammary adenocarcinoma clone mtln3 was tested after pretreatment in serum-free medium containing transforming growth factor ( tgf ) beta 1 at 0-5000 pg/ml . lung colonies were measured 2 weeks after inoculation in syngeneic f344 rats , and a bell-shaped dose-response curve with 2 - to 3-fold increase in number of surface lung metastases was seen . maximal enhancement occurred at the 50 pg/ml dose level . the effect was specific because addition of neutralizing anti-tgf-beta antibody blocked the stimulatory activity at all levels of tgf-beta 1 pretreatment , but when antibody was given alone , neutralizing anti-tgf-beta antibody had no effect on untreated cells . increased metastatic potential appears to be from an increased propensity of cells to extravasate as tested in the membrane invasion culture system . mtln3 cells penetrated reconstituted basement-membrane barriers 2 - to 3.5-fold more than did untreated control cells , depending upon length of tgf-beta 1 exposure . increased invasive potential is apparently due , in part , to a 2 - to 6-fold increase in type iv collagenolytic ( gelatinolytic ) and a 2.4-fold increase in heparanase activity . tgf-beta 1 treatment of mtln3 cells did not alter their growth rate or morphology in the presence of serum ; however , growth was inhibited in serum-free medium . likewise , adhesion to human umbilical vein endothelial cell monolayers or to immobilized reconstituted basement membrane or fibronectin matrices was unchanged . these results suggest that tgf-beta 1 may modulate metastatic potential of mammary tumor cells by controlling their ability to break down and penetrate basement-membrane barriers . 
identification of three related human gro genes encoding cytokine functions . the product of the human gro gene is a cytokine with inflammatory and growth-regulatory properties ; gro is also called mgsa for melanoma growth-stimulatory activity . we have identified two additional genes , gro beta and gro gamma , that share 90 % and 86 % identity at the deduced amino acid level with the original gro alpha isolate . one amino acid substitution of proline in gro alpha by leucine in gro beta and gro gamma leads to a large predicted change in protein conformation . significant differences also exist in the 3 ' untranslated region , including different numbers of attta repeats associated with mrna instability . a 122-base-pair region in the 3 ' region is conserved among the three gro genes , and a part of it is also conserved in the chinese hamster genome , suggesting a role in regulation . dna hybridization with oligonucleotide probes and partial sequence analysis of the genomic clones confirm that the three forms are derived from related but different genes . only one chromosomal locus has been identified , at 4q21 , by using a gro alpha cdna clone that hybridized to all three genes . expression studies reveal tissue-specific regulation as well as regulation by specific inducing agents , including interleukin 1 , tumor necrosis factor , phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate , and lipopolysaccharide . 
loss of heterozygosity on chromosomes 17 and 18 in breast carcinoma : two additional regions identified . the loss of heterozygosity ( loh ) at specific regions of the human genome in tumor dna is recognized as evidence for a tumor-suppressor gene located within the corresponding region of the homologous chromosome . restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of a panel of primary human breast tumor dnas has led to the identification of two additional regions on chromosomes 17q and 18q that frequently are affected by loh . deletions of each of these regions have a significant correlation with clinical parameters that are associated with aggressive breast carcinomas . previous restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of this panel of tumors has uncovered several other frequently occurring mutations . loh on chromosome 18q frequently occurs in tumors with concomitant loh of loci on chromosomes 17p and 11p . similarly , tumors having loh on 17q also have loh on chromosomes 1p and 3p . this suggests that certain combinations of mutations may collaborate in the development and malignant progression of breast carcinomas . 
promoter deletion and loss of retinoblastoma gene expression in human prostate carcinoma . mutational inactivation of the retinoblastoma gene ( rb ) is found in all retinoblastomas and in a subset of other human neoplasms , including sarcomas of bone or soft tissue and carcinomas of lung or breast . exogenous copies of wild-type rb have been shown to suppress the tumorigenicity of several types of tumor cells with endogenous rb mutations , including a previously described human prostatic carcinoma cell line . to further support a role for rb inactivation in the genesis of prostate cancer , seven primary or metastatic prostate carcinoma specimens were examined for evidence of rb mutation . by the use of immunoblot analysis and immunostaining of histologic sections , rb-encoded protein was readily detected in tumor cells of five specimens , was equivocally detected in one specimen , and was apparently absent from tumor cells of one specimen . rb mutations in the latter case were precisely characterized as ( i ) a deletion of 103 nucleotides containing transcriptional start sites and ( ii ) loss of the second rb allele . the 103-base-pair deletion was sufficient to abolish the promoter activity of upstream dna sequences in a heterologous expression system . these results ( i ) demonstrate that rb can be inactivated in vivo by mutation of its promoter , ( ii ) confirm the existence of rb mutations in some human prostate carcinomas , and ( iii ) suggest the use of immunohistochemical methods to screen for rb mutations in clinical samples of common adult neoplasms . 
effects of neuro-developmental treatment and orthoses on knee flexion during gait : a single-subject design . the interactive effects of neuro-developmental treatment and inhibitive ankle-height orthoses on gait were examined via a single-subject research design . knee flexion during gait at initial contact , mid-stance , heel-off , and mid-swing were measured in a 2-year-old girl with diplegia by use of a goniometer and freeze-frame videography . during the treatment and treatment/orthoses phases , a decrease in excessive knee flexion was noted . changes in trend over time were greater in the 3-week treatment phase than in the 3-week treatment/orthoses phase . changes in level at the initiation of the treatment/orthoses phase were greater than in the treatment phase . the described neuro-developmental treatment activities were conducted correctly 92 % of the time according to an independent observer . the interrater reliability of goniometric data measured by videography was .93 using intraclass correlation coefficients . the results of this study suggest that both methods of treatment can be used to decrease excessive knee flexion during gait in a child with diplegia . 
retro-orbicularis oculus fat ( roof ) resection in aesthetic blepharoplasty : a 6-year study in 63 patients sixty-three nonconsecutive patients have undergone resection of the retro-orbicularis oculus fat ( roof ) in conjunction with aesthetic blepharoplasty . in these patients , a consistent and useful ability to soften and flatten heaviness and bulkiness in the lateral upper orbital region was seen . two patients developed postoperative hematoma , and two different patients had transient dry-eye symptoms following blepharoplasty . twenty percent of patients had a transient degree of numbness in the lateral supraorbital nerve region , and all patients noted some transient numbness over the lateral upper brow region . no patient demonstrated significant paralysis of the orbicularis oculus or corrugator muscle . from this experience , retro-orbicularis oculus fat resection would appear to be a useful adjunct to standard blepharoplasty techniques in selected patients . 
augmentation mammaplasty by means of the transrectus route . a new operative technique has been developed for augmentation mammaplasty . through an inframammary incision , the anterior rectus sheath is entered , and the pocket is dissected in an entirely submuscular plane . we have performed this procedure in 112 patients to date . complications have been few . the capsular contracture rate in 90 patients followed for greater than 1 year is 7 percent . the inframammary crease can be lowered using this technique , making mastopexy unnecessary in most patients with moderate ptosis . 
comparison of lymphatic and venous interpositional autografts in experimental microsurgery of the canine lymphatics . in mongrel dogs , 56 autologous lymphatic and vein grafts were interpositioned to bridge a defect in the femoral collecting lymphatics . in one group , 26 lymphatic autografts were interpositioned with good results . no obstruction was observed over 6 months . in another group , 20 venous autografts were interpositioned after irrigation with heparinized saline and another 10 autografts were interpositioned without irrigation . after 1 week , four irrigated grafts were partially occluded with a red thrombus ; after 6 months , all grafts were totally occluded . in a third group , 15 lymphaticolymphatic anastomoses were enveloped by a silicone sheet to provoke prolonged devascularization . none of the vessels was patent . anastomotic patency was inspected in vivo postoperatively . the specimens were studied with light microscopy and scanning and transmission electron microscopy . prolonged devascularization damaged the endothelial cells . the results show that the lymphatic vessel autograft is the best choice for an interpositional autografting to bridge a defect in lymphatic vessels . 
intracerebral hematoma complicating split calvarial bone-graft harvesting . a case is reported of an intracerebral hematoma following the harvest of split calvarial bone . full recovery by the patient occurred . complications following calvarial bone graft harvest are reviewed . potential devastating complications warrant serious consideration of alternative sources of bone , especially in the purely elective surgical candidate . 
recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel . recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel is reported in two patients . this was due to traumatic attenuation of the flexor carpi ulnaris retinaculum . the mechanism of injury in both patients was a fall with the shoulder abducted and the elbow acutely flexed . both patients had relief of their neurologic symptoms following anterior submuscular transposition of the ulnar nerve . 
new treatment for frontal sinus hypertrophy a new treatment of frontal sinus hypertrophy is described . the anterior wall is removed , inverted , and attached again . the resulting depression is filled with bone dust . details are discussed , and a case is presented . 
an angiographic technique for three-dimensional determination of arterial supply patterns in cadaver soft tissue . a method for arterial tree mapping that can be used in cadaver soft tissue is presented . in situ angiograms and photographs are supplemented with profile angiograms of relatively narrow bands of tissue from the removed specimen . the described method was better suited for mapping the course and supply patterns of a soft-tissue arterial network than either in situ angiograms or dissection . while practical problems were encountered with most of the solutions used for providing radiopacity or structural support to the vessels , pure barium sulfate was found to be suitable because it filled the vascular tree to the capillary level without leakage during excision of the specimen . 
a clinicopathological study of the paraneoplastic neuromuscular syndromes associated with lung cancer . the highest incidence of remote neuromuscular disorders in cancer has previously been reported in lung carcinoma . the clinical incidence of neuromuscular disorder was estimated and correlated with muscle histology and the histological type of lung tumour in 100 patients with lung carcinoma who were studied prospectively . thirty-five patients had small cell carcinoma and 65 patients non-small cell lung cancer . clinically , 33 patients had a polymyopathy , of whom 18 had a cachectic myopathy and 15 had a proximal myopathy ( two patients had lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome , one presented with dermatomyositis and one had evidence of ectopic acth production ) . cachexia was more common in non-small cell cancer ; proximal myopathy was more common in small cell cancer . ninety-nine patients had abnormal muscle histology ; 74 had type ii atrophy , 12 had type i and ii atrophy , one had type i atrophy and 12 had necrosis . the majority of patients were affected sub-clinically and the clinical entities of cachectic and proximal myopathy did not correspond to previous pathological classifications . atrophy was not related to the duration of tumour symptoms , ageing , clinical type of myopathy or histological type of lung tumour , and was statistically different from that seen in controls . qualitatively , the presence of weight loss , muscle wasting and metastatic disease were not factors in the development of atrophy . similarly , necrosis was not related to the type of lung tumour , the presence of metastases , ageing , weight loss , muscle wasting , duration of tumour symptoms or the clinical form of myopathy . this study demonstrates that lung carcinoma has a direct effect on the motor unit , including atrophy , a necrobiotic myopathy and lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome . clinical assessment does not accurately assess the ' remote ' neuromuscular effects of cancer on the motor unit . 
the cutaneous manifestations in children with familial mediterranean fever ( recurrent hereditary polyserositis ) . a six-year study . in a six-year study of 46 children with familial mediterranean fever ( recurrent hereditary polyserositis ) , 20 children ( 43 per cent ) developed cutaneous manifestations . ten children had 18 episodes of erysipelas-like erythema which proved to be specific for the disease . twelve children ( 26 per cent ) had 31 episodes of non-specific purpuric rash and six children ( 13 per cent ) had nine episodes of henoch-schonlein purpura . other manifestations included diffuse erythema of the face , and/or trunk , angioneurotic oedema , diffuse erythema of the palms and soles followed by mild desquamation of the skin , raynaud 's phenomenon and a subcutaneous nodule . the mean frequency of the cutaneous lesions was 1.6 / patient/year before colchicine therapy and 0.4 / patient/year after colchicine therapy ( p = 0.0005 ) . the high incidence of cutaneous manifestations and their response to colchicine strongly suggest that skin involvement is an integral part familial mediterranean fever . 
prognostic factors in acute renal failure following aortic aneurysm surgery . this study analyses the prognostic factors associated with survival in 70 patients who developed acute renal failure following surgery for an aortic aneurysm . forty-nine patients ( 70 per cent ) had surgery for a ruptured aortic aneurysm and 21 patients ( 30 per cent ) had an elective procedure . fifty-nine patients received haemodialysis . thirty-three patients ( 47 per cent ) survived the episode of acute renal failure . six of these thirty-three patients died within three months of recovering from acute renal failure , giving an overall survival of 27/70 ( 39 per cent ) . a stepwise logistic regression analysis showed that the following factors significantly adversely affected survival : a need for inotropic support , ventilation for more than three days and age over 65 years . a model developed using these variables provided a basis for predicting outcome . 
alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver -- always important ? we have studied the clinical histories and liver biopsy findings in 1951 consecutive adult patients with suspected chronic liver disease , and in four known piz-homozygous alpha 1-antitrypsin-deficient patients with emphysema ( candidates for lung transplant ) and no known liver disease , in order to assess the importance of periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules in the liver and their possible causal role in liver disease , and to assess the value of possible screening tests . periportal granules were found in 30 ( 1.5 per cent ) of the 1951 liver biopsies and in all four known piz-homozygous subjects . they were the sole putative aetiological agent in eight of 85 patients ( 9.4 per cent ) with otherwise cryptogenic cirrhosis and present in 2.5 per cent of patients with cirrhosis of known aetiology ( alcohol , autoimmune etc. ) . all but one were z phenotype ( seven homozygotes , 22 heterozygotes ) . alpha 1-antitrypsin granules were seen in 12 patients ( including three of four lung transplant candidates ) with no histological chronic liver disease . determination of serum alpha 1-antitrypsin levels was quite unhelpful in identifying these patients . this study does not support the concept that periportal alpha 1-antitrypsin granules are necessarily pathogenic , but in some cases they may be causally related to otherwise cryptogenic liver disease . the presence of granules gave no important diagnostic , therapeutic or prognostic information . 
pinch-off syndrome : a complication of implantable subclavian venous access devices . implantable central venous access devices placed via the subclavian vein may become obstructed by thrombosis , impingement against a vein wall , or compression between the clavicle and first rib . the latter has been termed pinch-off syndrome ( pos ) . eleven patients with pos were studied , including one whose catheter had fractured and one whose catheter had fragmented . they were compared with 22 matched control patients and 100 consecutive routine clinic patients . each catheter was graded : 0 = normal , 1 = abrupt change in course with no luminal narrowing , 2 = luminal narrowing , and 3 = complete catheter fracture . pos was present in most ( eight of 11 ) cases within 3 weeks after placement . a grade 1 catheter was common ( 33 % ) among control subjects , but grades 2 and 3 were uncommon ( 1 % ) . catheter fracture or fragmentation was seen in two of five cases with long-term ( greater than 3 weeks ) pinching ( grade 2 catheter ) . the following conclusions were reached : grade 2 represents significant catheter compression and the potential for serious complications . grade 1 is of uncertain clinical significance , due to its high prevalence in control subjects . 
persistent and recurrent hyperparathyroidism : assessment with gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging . the effect of gadopentetate dimeglumine on signal intensity of abnormal parathyroid glands was assessed in 14 patients with persistent and recurrent hyperparathyroidism . non-contrast material-enhanced t1 - and t2-weighted spin-echo images were compared with t1-weighted images obtained 1 minute and 10 minutes after administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine . percentage of contrast between the abnormal gland and surrounding tissue was determined with the use of skeletal muscle , subcutaneous fat , and thyroid gland as reference tissues . all 11 abnormal parathyroid glands showed low to intermediate signal intensity on t1-weighted images and high signal intensity on t2-weighted images . gadopentetate dimeglumine significantly increased the signal intensity enhancement ratio of all abnormal parathyroid glands , causing increased percentage of contrast relative to the thyroid gland and skeletal muscle on t1-weighted images . however , the percentage of contrast relative to these tissues was even greater on nonenhanced t2-weighted images . thus , gadopentetate dimeglumine can substantially enhance the signal intensity of abnormal parathyroid glands and improve differential contrast with some neighboring tissues on t1-weighted images , but it does not improve contrast with surrounding tissue beyond that achieved on t2-weighted images . 
cervical lymph node metastasis : assessment of radiologic criteria . to estimate the accuracy of different radiologic criteria used to detect cervical lymph node metastasis in patients with head and neck carcinoma , seven different characteristics of 2,719 lymph nodes in 71 neck dissection specimens from 55 patients were assessed . three lymph node diameters , their location , their number , the presence of a tumor , and the amount of necrosis and fatty metaplasia were recorded . the minimal diameter in the axial plane was found to be the most accurate size criterion for predicting lymph node metastasis . a minimal axial diameter of 10 mm was determined to be the most effective size criterion . the size criterion for lymph nodes in the subdigastric region was 1 mm larger ( 11 mm ) . groups of three or more borderline nodes were proved to increase the sensitivity but did not significantly decrease the specificity . radiologically detectable necrosis ( 3 mm or larger ) was found only in tumorous nodes and was present in 74 % of the positive neck dissection specimens . shape was not a valuable criterion for the radiologic assessment of the cervical lymph node status . 
mitral valve prolapse : comparison of diagnosis by physical examination and echocardiography to determine how well physical examination findings suggestive of mitral valve prolapse ( mvp ) correlate with echocardiographic evidence of mvp , we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 104 patients referred to an air force cardiology clinic for echocardiography to rule out mvp . in each case , the referring physician 's specialty and his findings on cardiac physical examination were recorded . all patients had m-mode echocardiography , and half of the patients had two-dimensional echocardiography . sensitivities , specificities , and likelihood ratios for the physical examination were calculated using echocardiography as the comparison standard . the combination of a systolic click and a systolic murmur was the physical examination finding most predictive of echocardiographic mvp , with a positive likelihood ratio of 2.43 . other combinations of physical findings yielded likelihood ratios close to 1 . no differences were found based on the specialty of the examining physician . we conclude that when practicing physicians find a systolic click and murmur , mvp is likely to be present on echocardiography , though one third of the patients will have normal echocardiograms . other combinations of physical findings are of little help in predicting echocardiographic mvp . 
unusual cerebral manifestations in hereditary fructose intolerance . five children with hereditary fructose intolerance developed symptoms of neurological impairment . in three of them , neurological involvement was related to the acute hepatic toxicity of fructose ( hypoglycemia , abnormal coagulation , cardiovascular collapse ) ; in the other two , such a relationship could not be demonstrated . neurological impairment is not classic in hereditary fructose intolerance , but its occurrence in the acute phase of the disease is possible and does not constitute an argument against the diagnosis . 
penile implants in the treatment of peyronie 's disease . the treatment of peyronie 's disease remains controversial . patients who fail conservative therapy may require surgical intervention to restore the ability to have sexual intercourse . plaque excision and dermal grafting have not been universally successful , and alternate procedures that rely on the placement of a penile prosthesis have gained in popularity . we reviewed our experience with 35 patients with advanced peyronie 's disease treated with a penile prosthesis . preoperatively , 55 % of the patients were unable to engage in intercourse due to pain or angulation of the penis and 25 % were unable to achieve any erection at all . postoperatively , with a mean followup of 6.9 years , 88 % of the patients were able to engage in intercourse and were satisfied with the results obtained . in selected patients with advanced disease the implantation of a penile prosthesis remains a highly successful and satisfying alternative for the treatment of peyronie 's disease . 
prevalence of carcinoma in situ and other histopathological abnormalities in testes from 399 men who died suddenly and unexpectedly . to determine the prevalence of carcinoma in situ of the testis and other testicular histopathological abnormalities in the general male population , we examined gonads from 399 men 18 to 50 years old who died suddenly and unexpectedly . no sign of malignancy was found in any of these gonads . however , 3 of the 399 men had been previously treated for testicular tumor or carcinoma in situ . thus , the over-all prevalence of testicular neoplasia in the population studied was 0.8 % ( 95 % confidence limits 0.2 to 2.2 % ) . this frequency is of the same magnitude as the lifetime risk of testicular cancer in the danish male population . the median weights of the left and right testes were 19.3 and 19.7 gm. , respectively . this difference was statistically significant ( p = 0.00003 ) . thus , our study confirmed that on average the left testis is smaller than the right testis . the median weight of the gonads collected in our study was 0.9 gm . lower than the weight of testes examined 40 years earlier at the same department of forensic medicine . however , this difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.17 ) . microscopic examination of the gonadal specimens revealed that 83 % of the men exhibited complete spermatogenesis , including late spermatids in all tubules . in the age group studied we found no age-related changes in testicular weight or in the proportion of tubules with degenerative changes , such as spermatogenic arrest , the sertoli-cell-only syndrome or hyalinization . 
prophylaxis of uric acid stones with alternate day doses of alkaline potassium salts . uric acid stone formation ordinarily is prevented by increases in the urinary ph after meals . this postprandial alkaline tide is lost in patients who make such calculi . single dose , alternate day administration of an alkaline potassium salt will increase urinary ph and simulate this normal physiological mechanism . an important part of the regimen is patient self-monitoring to verify that the urinary ph increases to greater than 6.8 , 1 1/2 to 2 hours after the medication is taken . in contrast to multiple dose daily regimens , this mode of base administration is tolerated better and easier to follow . in 17 patients , 7 with the recurrent gravel/colic syndrome and 10 with prior stones , this regimen abolished calculus formation during an average followup of 2 1/2 years . however , further studies are needed before this regimen can be recommended as standard therapy for uric acid stone prophylaxis . 
nimodipine after resuscitation from out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation . a placebo-controlled , double-blind , randomized trial . one hundred fifty-five consecutive patients resuscitated after out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation by a physician-manned advanced life support unit were randomly assigned to receive nimodipine or placebo at a dosage of 10 micrograms/kg as an intravenous injection immediately after restoration of spontaneous circulation , followed by an infusion of 0.5 micrograms/kg per minute for 24 hours . no significant difference was found in the 1-year survival rate of nimodipine-treated ( 30 [ 40 % ] of 75 patients ) and placebo-treated patients ( 29 [ 36 % ] of 80 patients ) . recurrent ventricular fibrillation during the treatment occurred in one patient in the nimodipine group compared with 12 patients in the placebo group . in a post hoc analysis of patients with very long delays in advanced life support ( more than 10 minutes ) , the 1-year survival rate was higher with nimodipine ( eight [ 47 % ] of 17 patients ) than with placebo ( two [ 8 % ] of 26 patients ) . nimodipine may be of benefit in patients with delayed resuscitation . 
acute water intoxication as a complication of urine drug testing in the workplace urine drug testing is now mandatory in many industries . we report the first case , to our knowledge , of an adverse consequence of drug testing in the workplace : acute water intoxication . we discuss normal water metabolism and the adverse effects of water loading and impaired renal function on free water clearance . we present a literature review of seven other cases of acute voluntary water intoxication in patients without chronic psychiatric or neurologic illness . for workers undergoing urine drug testing we conclude that risk factors for acute water intoxication include ( 1 ) intake of more than 1 l of water and ( 2 ) impaired urine dilution . in a recently drug-tested worker , symptoms of cerebral dysfunction should suggest the possibility of water intoxication . 
selected measures of health status for mexican-american , mainland puerto rican , and cuban-american children . the 1987 national vital statistics system and the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey ( 1982 through 1984 ) were used to assess the health status of mexican-american , mainland puerto rican , and cuban-american children by examining the prevalences of pregnancy outcomes and chronic medical conditions . the low-birth-weight rate among hispanics ( 7.0 % ) compared favorably with that of non-hispanic whites ( 7.1 % ) despite the greater poverty and lower levels of education among hispanics . when examined by hispanic subgroup , however , significant differences were present , with mainland puerto ricans having the highest prevalences of low-birth-weight infants . premature births were more common among all three hispanic subgroups than among non-hispanic whites . mexican-american and cuban-american children had a similar prevalence of ( 3.9 % and 2.5 % , respectively ) chronic medical conditions compared with non-hispanic white children ; puerto rican children had a higher prevalence of chronic medical conditions ( 6.2 % ) . when assessed by these health status indicators , hispanic children seem to have a health status similar to non-hispanic white children . however , mainland puerto rican children seem at greater risk for poor health , reflecting the us hispanic population 's heterogeneity . health programs targeted at us hispanics should appropriately consider these group differences . 
hamman-rich syndrome revisited in this article , we retrospectively review 29 cases of hamman-rich syndrome . as in some other recent reports , we have used the term " acute interstitial pneumonia " to emphasize the clinical and pathologic features of these cases and to distinguish them from the more common chronic interstitial pneumonias , particularly idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis . of the 29 patients , 12 survived , some after a long and complicated hospitalization . the histologic features were those of organizing diffuse alveolar damage , and some patients , including survivors , had extensive fibroblastic distortion of lung parenchyma . the overall survival among these patients was not appreciably different from the survival of patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome in general . 
tumor angiogenesis and metastasis -- correlation in invasive breast carcinoma . background . experimental evidence suggests that the growth of a tumor beyond a certain size requires angiogenesis , which may also permit metastasis . to investigate how tumor angiogenesis correlates with metastases in breast carcinoma , we counted microvessels ( capillaries and venules ) and graded the density of microvessels within the initial invasive carcinomas of 49 patients ( 30 with metastases and 19 without ) . methods . using light microscopy , we highlighted the vessels by staining their endothelial cells immunocytochemically for factor viii . the microvessels were carefully counted ( per 200x field ) , and their density was graded ( 1 to 4 + ) , in the most active areas of neovascularization , without knowledge of the outcome in the patient , the presence or absence of metastases , or any other pertinent variable . results . both microvessel counts and density grades correlated with metastatic disease . the mean ( + / - sd ) count and grade in the patients with metastases were 101 + / - 49.3 and 2.95 + / - 1.00 vessels , respectively . the corresponding values in the patients without metastases were significantly lower -- 45 + / - 21.1 and 1.38 + / - 0.82 ( p = 0.003 and p less than or equal to 0.001 , respectively ) . for each 10-microvessel increase in the count per 200x field , there was a 1.59-fold increase in the risk of metastasis ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.19 to 2.12 ; p = 0.003 ) . the microvessel count and density grade also correlated with distant metastases . for each 10-microvessel increase in the vessel count per 200x field , there was a 1.17-fold increase in the risk of distant metastasis ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.02 to 1.34 ; p = 0.029 ) . conclusions . the number of microvessels per 200x field in the areas of most intensive neovascularization in an invasive breast carcinoma may be an independent predictor of metastatic disease either in axillary lymph nodes or at distant sites ( or both ) . assessment of tumor angiogenesis may therefore prove valuable in selecting patients with early breast carcinoma for aggressive therapy . 
angiographic follow-up after placement of a self-expanding coronary-artery stent background . the placement of stents in coronary arteries after coronary angioplasty has been investigated as a way of treating abrupt coronary-artery occlusion related to the angioplasty and of reducing the late intimal hyperplasia responsible for gradual restenosis of the dilated lesion . methods . from march 1986 to january 1988 , we implanted 117 self-expanding , stainless-steel endovascular stents ( wallstent ) in the native coronary arteries ( 94 stents ) or saphenous-vein bypass grafts ( 23 stents ) of 105 patients . angiograms were obtained immediately before and after placement of the stent and at follow-up at least one month later ( unless symptoms required angiography sooner ) . the mortality after one year was 7.6 percent ( 8 patients ) . follow-up angiograms ( after a mean [ + / - sd ] of 5.7 + / - 4.4 months ) were obtained in 95 patients with 105 stents and were analyzed quantitatively by a computer-assisted system of cardiovascular angiographic analysis . the 10 patients without follow-up angiograms included 4 who died . results . complete occlusion occurred in 27 stents in 25 patients ( 24 percent ) ; 21 occlusions were documented within the first 14 days after implantation . overall , immediately after placement of the stent there was a significant increase in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant decrease in the percentage of the diameter with stenosis ( changing from a mean [ + / - sd ] of 1.88 + / - 0.43 to 2.48 + / - 0.51 mm and from 37 + / - 12 to 21 + / - 10 percent , respectively ; p less than 0.0001 ) . later , however , there was a significant decrease in the minimal luminal diameter and a significant increase in the stenosis of the segment with the stent ( 1.68 + / - 1.78 mm and 48 + / - 34 percent at follow-up ) . significant restenosis , as indicated by a reduction of 0.72 mm in the minimal luminal diameter or by an increase in the percentage of stenosis to greater than or equal to 50 percent , occurred in 32 percent and 14 percent of patent stents , respectively . conclusions . early occlusion remains an important limitation of this coronary-artery stent . even when the early effects are beneficial , there are frequently late occlusions or restenosis . the place of this form of treatment for coronary artery disease remains to be determined . 
a strategy to reduce infant mortality . using maternal mortality reviews as an historic model , fetal and infant mortality reviews are proposed to reduce infant mortality in the united states . the national program has three elements : 1 ) guidelines and direction from a national multidisciplinary steering panel and staff , 2 ) a technical advisory capacity to translate guidelines and to work with local and regional review committees , and 3 ) local review committees . a special emphasis , lacking in the limited efforts of previous infant mortality reviews , would be given to fetal mortality . the plan proposes a broad classification of potential contributing causes of mortality , from those related strictly to medical care , to the health system , and to individual patient factors . this will allow different and more effective targeted responses to factors identified locally . critical impetus will be gained with the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists leading the effort from the private medical sector in partnership with national , state , and local public health agencies and other national medical societies . 
persistent trophoblast after conservative treatment of tubal pregnancy : prediction and detection . the incidence of persistent trophoblast and risk of second surgical intervention after conservative treatment of tubal pregnancy are substantial . the preoperative and postoperative hcg patterns in patients with tubal pregnancy were studied to see whether this information could predict and detect persistent trophoblast at an early stage . ninety-eight women with tubal pregnancy underwent conservative surgical treatment by laparoscopy or laparotomy . eight developed postoperative complications necessitating a second operation , and seven of them had both biochemical and histologic evidence of persistent trophoblastic activity . in seven of 31 patients with preoperative hcg above 3000 iu/l , a second operation was necessary , whereas in 67 with preoperative hcg levels below 3000 iu/l , only one such intervention was necessary . eight of the 22 patients with hcg above 1000 iu/l on the second day after surgery and seven of 11 patients with hcg above 1000 iu/l on the seventh day after surgery later needed a second surgical procedure . in contrast , 86 of 87 women with hcg below 1000 iu/l on the seventh day after surgery had an uneventful convalescence . we conclude that pre - and postoperative hcg measurements can identify patients at risk of developing persistent trophoblast . further , in patients with preoperative hcg titers below 3000 iu/l , we recommend conservative surgery followed by measurement of hcg 1 week postoperatively . 
the effects of epidural anesthesia on the doppler velocimetry of umbilical and uterine arteries in normal and hypertensive patients during active term labor . to study the effects of epidural anesthesia on uterine and umbilical artery blood flow in preeclampsia , we observed 25 patients in active labor at 36 or more weeks ' gestation . seven had preeclampsia , eight had chronic hypertension , and ten had no complications . doppler velocimetry of the uterine and umbilical arteries was performed before and after intravenous fluid loading and at 30 and 60 minutes after epidural blockade . maternal vital signs and fetal heart rate were monitored continuously . after epidural block , mean maternal blood pressure fell significantly in all groups , but no maternal hypotension was observed . mean maternal and fetal heart rates were unchanged . after epidural block , mean uterine artery systolic-diastolic ( s-d ) ratios did not change in the chronic-hypertension and normal groups , but fell significantly in the preeclamptic group to values similar to those of the normal group . umbilical artery s-d ratios did not change in any group . in preeclamptic pregnancy , epidural anesthesia may help to reduce uterine artery vasospasm and may benefit intrapartum fetal well-being . 
poloxamer 407 as an intraperitoneal barrier material for the prevention of postsurgical adhesion formation and reformation in rodent models for reproductive surgery . comtemporary adhesion-prevention regimens for infertility surgery emphasize the use of barrier materials to effect physical separation of injured surfaces before reperitonealization . poloxamer 407 is a biocompatible polymer that displays reverse thermal gelation characteristics ; that is , the material exists as a liquid at room temperature and as a solid at body temperature . these properties make it an ideal material for use in laparoscopic surgery . the antiadhesion properties of poloxamer 407 were evaluated in two models . in the first experiment , golden hamsters were subjected to a standardized adhesion-producing lesion in the left uterine horn . poloxamer solutions in concentrations ranging from 15-35 % were applied to the injured horn . location , thickness , and extent of adhesion formation were assessed 14 days later . significant reduction in post-traumatic adhesion formation was observed following treatment with the 30-35 % solutions . the second experiment was designed as a paradigm of the typical situation encountered in infertility surgery : prevention of adhesion reformation after lysis of established adhesions . new zealand white rabbits were subjected to three laparotomies at 14-day intervals for placement of the adhesion-producing lesion , evaluation ( prescore ) and surgical lysis of induced adhesions , and subsequent evaluation of adhesion reformation ( post-score ) . the effect of applying poloxamer 407 after adhesiotomy was compared with controls ( no treatment ) . adhesion reformation ( post-score ) was markedly reduced by poloxamer-407 treatment . further trials of this material in the clinical setting are indicated . 
third-trimester fetal death in triplet pregnancies . during the last decade , 89 sets of triplets were born in denmark with a gestational age of more than 25 completed weeks . fifteen pregnancies ( 16.9 % ) were complicated by fetal death in the third trimester , with a total of 17 intrauterine deaths . six neonatal deaths occurred , leaving 22 survivors among these 15 patients . four triplet gestations were diagnosed as twins until delivery . eight women conceived spontaneously , two gestations followed assisted fertilization and embryo transfer , and five women had had various forms of ovulation stimulation . the mean maternal age was 27.8 years ( range 17-38 ) . seven women were parous and eight wer nulliparous . maternal complications included hydramnios ( three ) , preeclampsia/hypertension ( three ) , and anemia ( nine ) . all women delivered preterm . of the 11 gestations diagnosed as triplets , fetal death was diagnosed at 32.2 + / - 2.9 weeks ( mean + / - sd ) and delivery occurred at 32.6 + / - 3.0 weeks . nine of 11 women had cesarean deliveries . continuation of pregnancy after fetal death could be considered in only three subjects . in eight women , obstetric reasons required immediate delivery . fetal death was associated with monochorionic or dichorionic placentation , and growth retardation was a frequent complication before fetal death . anencephaly of one fetus , umbilical cord problems in two , and severe hydrops in two were the only obvious causes of fetal death . fetal death should not be the sole indication for delivery . in cases with severe prematurity and a stable intrauterine situation , frequent assessments of fetal well-being are recommended , with prompt delivery when indicated . 
a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy following intravenous antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis . one hundred thirty-six patients were enrolled in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy ( amoxicillin ) versus placebo following successful intravenous ( iv ) antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis . no subjects were readmitted to the hospital for recurrent endometritis and there were no wound infections or recurrent fevers . minor side effects were seen in 10 % of those taking amoxicillin and 14 % of those taking placebo . compliance was fair ; only 52 % of those taking amoxicillin and 65 % of those taking placebo completed therapy . the lack of infectious complications in this high-risk population suggests that oral antibiotic therapy is unnecessary after successful iv antibiotic therapy for endometritis . 
factors associated with hemorrhage in cesarean deliveries . a case-control study was performed to study risk factors for hemorrhage in cesarean deliveries . hemorrhage was defined by a pre - to post-delivery hematocrit decrease of 10 points or more or by the need for red-cell transfusion . patients with antenatal bleeding were excluded . among 3052 cesarean deliveries , hemorrhage occurred in 196 cases ( 6.4 % ) . three controls were matched to each case and multiple logistic regression was used to control for covariance among predictor variables . factors having a significant association with hemorrhage were : general anesthesia ( adjusted odds ratio 2.94 ) , amnionitis ( odds ratio 2.69 ) , preeclampsia ( 2.18 ) , protracted active phase of labor ( 2.40 ) , second-stage arrest ( 1.90 ) , and hispanic ethnicity ( 1.82 ) . after adjustment for these variables , a classic uterine incision had a small but significant association ( odds ratio 1.06 ) with hemorrhage . previous cesarean , parity , gestational age , and several other factors had no association with hemorrhage . these data allow one to anticipate hemorrhage in patients at risk and may be useful in planning appropriate use of blood bank resources , including antepartum autologous blood donation . 
the use of molteno implant and anterior chamber tube shunt to encircling band for the treatment of glaucoma in keratoplasty patients . this retrospective study reviews the results of 35 keratoplasty patients with complex corneal and glaucoma disease , who received molteno-type ( n = 25 ) or anterior chamber tube shunt to encircling band ( actseb ) - type ( n = 10 ) implant for the treatment of difficult glaucomas . the implant was placed before the keratoplasty in 14 eyes , during the keratoplasty procedure in 6 eyes , and subsequent to the corneal surgery in 15 eyes . mean follow-up for the keratoplasty was 25.46 months ( range , 6-58 months ) and 24.74 months ( range , 7-42 months ) for the seton procedure . graft rejection occurred in 12 ( 34 % ) of 35 eyes and was progressive in 9 eyes . nonimmunologic failure was seen in 9 ( 26 % ) of 35 eyes . grafts were repeated in ten eyes with eight of these ( 80 % ) remaining clear at a mean of 14.4 months . considering the results of the repeat grafts , 25 ( 71 % ) of 35 eyes achieved clear transplants . overall , 46 % of patients had final visual acuities of 20/100 or better and 69 % had final visual acuities of 20/400 or better . the mean preoperative intraocular pressure ( iop ) of 34.54 mmhg ( range , 14-68 mmhg ; standard deviation [ sd ] , 11.51 ) was lowered to a mean of 14.65 mmhg ( range , 6-30 mmhg ; sd , 4.49 ) . in the final analysis , 30 ( 86 % ) of 35 eyes were judged successful from a glaucoma standpoint . we conclude that the molteno - and actseb-type implants are viable treatment alternatives in this difficult glaucoma group . 
effects of topical glaucoma drugs on fistulized rabbit conjunctiva . conjunctival fibroblastic proliferation with contracting scar formation has been implicated as a possible cause of glaucoma filtering surgery failure . the effects of glaucoma medications on bulbar conjunctiva were evaluated in both eyes of 20 pigmented rabbits , with 5 rabbits per group each receiving singular topically applied daily doses of either 0.5 % timolol , 1 % epinephrine , 4 % pilocarpine , or artificial tears in a masked fashion for 4 months . posterior lip sclerectomies were performed in 16 rabbits -- 4 from each treatment group . the remaining four rabbits served as nonsurgical controls . four additional rabbits , which had not received eye drops , were included as a nonmedicated control group , with one rabbit serving as a nonsurgical control . immunostaining was performed to identify the presence of myofibroblasts in fistulized conjunctiva . treated surgical eyes , regardless of medication , had higher myofibroblastic cell proliferation than treated nonsurgical eyes . among fistulized eyes , all medications increased cell proliferation , with pilocarpine eliciting the most dramatic increase compared with all other groups . 
assessment of cataracts from photographs in the beaver dam eye study . presence and severity of age-related cataract was determined in adults 43 to 84 years of age in beaver dam , wisconsin . duplicate photograph gradings for nuclear sclerosis ( n = 1160 ) , cortical opacities ( n = 1159 ) , and posterior subcapsular cataract ( n = 1137 ) were performed . there are five levels of nuclear sclerosis . exact agreement occurred in 64.7 % of the cases ; agreement within one category in 99.8 % . for cortical opacities , graders estimate involved area in nine segments of the lens . when the continuous scale is divided into 12 categories of severity , exact agreement varied between 73.5 and 82.4 % ; for agreement within one category , rates varied between 84.6 and 89.9 % . for posterior subcapsular cataracts , exact agreement for involvement of the central circle occurred in 95.0 % and agreement within one category occurred in 97.7 % . intraobserver comparisons disclosed similar concordance . these grading schemes are semiquantitative , reproducible , and can be performed for the large numbers of photographs from population-based studies . 
ocular rosacea . a histologic and immunopathologic study . acne rosacea is an idiopathic dermatologic disease that frequently produces conjunctival inflammation . the authors studied the histology and immunopathology of epibulbar conjunctival biopsy specimens from eight patients with ocular rosacea and compared the findings with those from conjunctiva from 13 normal individuals . the conjunctival epithelium in ocular rosacea was attenuated and infiltrated by inflammatory cells , mainly t-helper/inducer ( cd4 ) cells , phagocytic cells , and antigen-presenting ( cd14 , mac-1 ) cells . the difference between the normal control group and the rosacea group in the number of mononuclear cells forming these populations was statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . the substantia propria of the rosacea specimens contained large subepithelial infiltrates of chronic inflammatory cells , and in some cases frank granuloma formation was evident . there was an overall mean increase of nearly all cell types , but especially of t-helper cells in the rosacea specimens compared with the controls . interestingly , t-helper/inducer ( cd4 ) cells , which were outnumbered by the t-suppressor ( cd8 ) cells in the normal conjunctival epithelium ( cd4/cd8 = 0.85 ) , outnumbered the cd8-positive cells in the rosacea specimens ( cd4/cd8 = 1.6 ) . there also was a 3.5-fold increase of the cd4/cd8 ratio in the rosacea conjunctival stroma compared with the normal specimens . the mechanism involved in rosacea conjunctival inflammation resembles a type iv hypersensitivity reaction . 
orbital complications secondary to endoscopic sinus surgery . eight cases of significant orbital complications associated with endoscopic sinus surgery are described . the anatomic problems generally fall into four categories : nasolacrimal sac or duct injury , extraocular muscle injury , intraorbital hemorrhage/emphysema , or optic nerve injury . the successful management of each complication depends on a thorough knowledge of the anatomy and pathophysiology of the orbital injury . return to normal function of the traumatized orbital structures after medical and/or surgical intervention is anticipated . however , direct optic nerve injury with immediate visual field and/or acuity deficit is usually irreversible . 
split-thickness skin grafting of the myelomeningocele defect : a subset at risk for late ulceration . the appropriate method and timing of the management of the myelomeningocele defect have prompted considerable discussion . use of split-thickness skin grafts acutely has accomplished wound closure with low morbidity and mortality . this study was designed to address the question of long-term suitability of the technique of split-thickness skin grafting of the myelomeningocele patient . the incidence of late and/or severe skin ulceration and the presence of gibbus deformity were correlated with the method of skin closure . long-term follow-up revealed a higher incidence of chronic skin ulceration in the split-thickness skin graft group as compared with the primary closure group . all skin breakdowns appeared in the presence of a gibbus deformity , and gibbus deformity was more prevalent in the split-thickness skin graft group . the incidence of skin ulceration and gibbus deformity was site-dependent . a thoracic or thoracolumbar myelomeningocele repair with split-thickness skin graft was significantly more likely to be complicated by skin problems than the defect in the lumbar , lumbosacral , or sacral region . this relationship was secondary to the frequency of gibbus deformity in the more cephalad defects than defects caudad . a treatment plan is outlined that is based on the primary variable of the location of the myelomeningocele and secondarily by defect size . 
increase in skin-flap survival by the vasoactive drug buflomedil . the effect of buflomedil to protect skin tissue from ischemia and necrosis was studied in random cutaneous flaps . measurements were performed by intravital microscopy on the microcirculatory level of capillary perfusion in a flap model in the hairless mouse . in 30 hairless mice , single-pedicle flaps measuring 6 x 16 mm were raised perpendicular to the spine of the animal . this flap develops a reliable amount of necrosis at its distal edge over a period of 7 days . a group of 10 mice received intravenous injections of buflomedil in doses of 3 mg/kg per day diluted in 0.1 ml normal saline beginning 4 hours before flap elevation and for 6 consecutive days postoperatively . in addition , 10 further animals received the same treatment except that it was started 5 minutes after flap elevation . in 10 mice serving as controls , normal saline in equal volumes as in the experimental groups was applied . by means of intravital microscopy , functional vessel density ( fvd ) was determined in 2.5-mm increments from the flap 's base to its distal edge at 1 , 6 , and 24 hours after elevation . skin-flap survival was quantified by measuring the necrotic area on day 7 by means of digital planimetry . functional vessel density was preserved in the distal flap of animals pretreated with buflomedil , revealing a higher functional vessel density at 10.0 mm ( p less than 0.01 ) , 12.5 mm ( p less than 0.05 ) , and 15.0 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) from the flap 's base as compared with controls . 
evaluation of argon laser surgery in children under 13 years of age . argon laser surgery is an effective treatment for ectasias and congenital port-wine stains ; however , its use in children under the age of 13 is controversial . this paper reviews 202 children under the age of 13 who underwent argon laser treatments for congenital port-wine stains , spider angiomas , epidermal nevi , and lentigines . the clinical characteristics of port-wine stains in 170 children are discussed . good to excellent results ( moderate to complete clearing ) in port-wine stains were obtained in 60 percent of patients and seemed to correlate best with lack of blanchability on pressure . hypertrophic scarring was seen in only 7 children , all of whom had undressed wounds ; no significant scarring has been seen in any subsequent child who had maintained a dressed wound postoperatively . 
abdominal wall reconstruction ( the " mutton chop " flap ) . reconstruction of full-thickness abdominal wall defects can be a difficult surgical challenge . reconstructing the epigastrium may be especially vexing . the use of prosthetic mesh has significant drawbacks , and the use of pedicled myofascial and myocutaneous flaps should be advantageous . we present 15 consecutive cases demonstrating highly successful reconstructions of massive abdominal wall defects using myofascial and myocutaneous flaps without prosthetic mesh . the extended rectus femoris flap , or " mutton chop " flap , which is capable of resurfacing the epigastrium , is described . complications were minimal , and use of myofascial units , particularly the rectus femoris , should be considered as the technique of choice for reconstruction of major abdominal wall deficits . 
analysis of brain and cerebrospinal fluid volumes with mr imaging : impact on pet data correction for atrophy . part ii . aging and alzheimer dementia a new , computerized segmentation technique , in which magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging produces accurate volumetric measurements of brain and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) without the limitations of computed tomography , was used in a retrospective analysis of digitized t2-weighted mr images of 16 healthy elderly control subjects and 16 patients with alzheimer dementia . ventricular and extraventricular csf was quantified , and the effects of aging were studied ; in both groups , the atrophy measurement was used to correct metabolic values obtained with positron emission tomography . patients with alzheimer dementia had higher total csf ; extraventricular , total ventricular , and third ventricular csf volumes ( 49 % , 37 % , 99 % , and 74 % , respectively ) ; and 7 % lower brain volumes than the control group . the patients also showed a more marked decline in brain volumes and a greater increase in csf volumes with advancing age than the control group . they had a 25.0 % increase in corrected whole-brain metabolic rates ; the control group had only a 15.8 % increase . the use of this technique may provide a basis for further studies of aging and dementia , including regional volume analysis . 
asymptomatic and neurologically symptomatic hiv-seropositive individuals : prospective evaluation with cranial mr imaging . as part of a prospective multidisciplinary study of individuals seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , cranial magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was performed on 119 hiv-seropositive subjects ( 95 asymptomatic , 24 symptomatic ) and the results were correlated with clinical data . mr images regarded as positive included those showing atrophy and/or white matter lesions . on the basis of these criteria , 96 subjects had normal mr images and 23 had abnormal images . results of chi 2 analysis revealed a statistically significant difference between the asymptomatic group ( 12 of 95 [ 13 % ] with abnormal scans ) and the symptomatic group ( 11 of 24 [ 46 % ] with abnormal scans ) ( p = .001 ) . in the asymptomatic group , positive mr images showed fewer , smaller , and/or less extensive abnormalities . the researchers conclude that ( a ) mr imaging can show indirect evidence of hiv infection early in the disease , but abnormalities will be minor and seen only in a small minority of neurologically asymptomatic subjects ; ( b ) the appearance of clinically recognizable neurologic disease correlates with the mr imaging findings of increasingly severe brain atrophy and white matter lesions ; and ( c ) in some hiv-seropositive subjects , despite neurologic disease , mr images can remain normal . results indicate that routine screening with cranial mr imaging of neurologically asymptomatic hiv-seropositive individuals would likely result in a low yield of positive findings . 
detection of vascular complications in renal allografts with color doppler flow imaging . one hundred ninety-five color doppler flow ( cdf ) examinations were performed in 146 renal allografts to assess the capabilities of this technique in detecting intra - or extrarenal vascular complications . conventional angiography was also performed in 44 transplants . in the group of transplants with angiographic correlation , cdf sonography enabled correct identification of 30 of 34 vascular complications . cdf showed 10 of 11 significant stenoses of the renal artery or of one of its main branches . there were two false-positive renal artery stenoses ( one normal artery and one 40 % stenosis ) . nine of nine renal artery thromboses and the single pseudoaneurysm were also identified . within the parenchyma , cdf sonography demonstrated five of five segmental infarcts , two of two postbiopsy arteriovenous fistulas , and three of six segmental or interlobar artery stenoses . measurement of peak systolic velocity showed a significant difference ( p less than .05 ) between a group ( n = 8 ) with significant stenosis of the renal artery or one of its main branches ( mean , 215.2 cm/sec + / - 32 ) and a group ( n = 14 ) without stenosis ( mean , 99.2 cm/sec + / - 19 ) . 
translumbar arch aortography : a retrospective controlled study of usefulness , technique , and safety . subclavian and axillary artery stenoses may lead to axillofemoral bypass graft failure . these arteries were assessed preoperatively with arch aortography performed after conventional high translumbar peripheral aortography by exchanging the initial 16-gauge sheath for a 5-f pigtail catheter . thirty-two diagnostic translumbar runoff and arch ( tlr-arch ) aortograms were obtained in 30 patients with advanced lower extremity ischemia . in six patients ( 20 % ) , the results of the arch study influenced the choice of an inflow site . these patients were compared with 70 control subjects who underwent conventional translumbar aortography without arch studies . in the tlr-arch group , two major complications occurred in one patient , while in the control group 11 major complications occurred in 10 patients . one retroperitoneal hematoma occurred in the tlr-arch group ; two occurred in the control group . the mean change in hematocrit for the tlr-arch group was -3.81 % ( -0.0381 ) , and for the control group it was -4.17 % ( -0.0417 ) . this difference was not statistically significant . arch aortography is a valuable adjunct to the translumbar aortofemoral study . it can be simply performed without increasing the morbidity of the peripheral study . 
valve and great vessel stenosis : assessment with mr jet velocity mapping . for measurement of poststenotic jet velocities with magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging , the authors reduced the echo time ( te ) of the field even-echo rephasing ( feer ) velocity mapping sequence from 14.0 to 3.6 msec , so minimizing the problem of mr signal loss from turbulent fluid . in vitro use of rotating disk and stenotic flow phantoms confirmed that the 3.6-msec te sequence enables accurate measurement of jet velocities of up to 6.0 m/sec ( r = .996 ) . peak jet velocity measurements were made with mr imaging in 36 patients with stenosis of native heart valves ( n = 9 ) , conduits ( n = 19 ) , or fontan connections ( n = 2 ) or with aortic coarctation ( n = 6 ) . peak velocity measurements made with mr imaging agreed well with measurements made with doppler ultrasound ( us ) , which were available in 18 cases ( standard deviation = 0.2 m/sec ) . velocity mapping with fast-echo mr imaging is likely to have considerable importance as a noninvasive means of locating and evaluating stenoses , particularly at sites inaccessible to us , but care must be taken to prevent errors caused by malalignment , signal loss , phase wrap , or partial-volume effects . 
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty in the management of clotted hemodialysis grafts : early and late clinical results . the results of pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty of 121 thrombosed hemodialysis grafts were reviewed . the initial pharmacomechanical method ( used in 65 cases ) employed clot maceration with hook-shaped catheters and clot lacing with highly concentrated urokinase . the current technique ( used in 56 cases ) consisted of pulsed-spray injection of urokinase into the clot . all fully treated grafts ( 117 cases ) underwent complete or near-complete thrombolysis , and 93 % remained patent after 1 day . mean time for pulsed-spray lysis was 46 minutes + / - 21 . one patient ( less than 1 % ) had gastrointestinal bleeding and received a transfusion ; minor complications occurred in 3 % of patients . primary and secondary graft patency rates for both methods at 1 year were 26 % and 51 % , respectively . while graft age and results of angioplasty did not influence future graft patency , shorter intervals between graft thromboses was predictive of earlier subsequent graft failure . results suggest that pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and angioplasty provide rapid , consistent , and safe recanalization of clotted hemodialysis grafts and represent a promising additional therapeutic approach to long-term graft management . 
bleeding gastroesophageal varices : gastric vein embolization after partial portal decompression . shunts that decompress the portal vein are effective in the treatment of bleeding esophageal varices . use of large-caliber portacaval shunts , however , results in the complete decompression of the portal system and the risk of subsequent development of hepatic encephalopathy . use of small-caliber portacaval shunts results in mild portal hypertension and less frequent hepatic encephalopathy but may increase the risk of recurrent bleeding . thirty-three patients underwent angiography after partial decompression portacaval shunting ( median trans-shunt pressures , 8 mm hg ) . embolization of residual varices , noted in 13 patients , was performed . results included one complication with no sequelae and no bleeding a mean of 13 months after the procedure was performed . trans-shunt embolization of esophageal varices effectively prevents bleeding varices after partial portal decompression . 
complications of percutaneous abdominal fine-needle biopsy . review . to determine whether the increasing use of percutaneous fine-needle biopsy of abdominal lesions is associated with an increase in serious complications , the author updated a literature search and evaluated a questionnaire ( distributed among selected hospitals in the united states in 1986 and 1987 ) that followed up a questionnaire distributed in 1983 . the updated literature review revealed a total of 24 deaths and 20 needle tract seedings . the updated questionnaire revealed five deaths after 16,381 biopsies ( 0.031 % ) , whereas the previous questionnaire had shown four deaths after 63,108 biopsies ( 0.006 % ) . two similar european questionnaires revealed mortality rates of 0.008 % and 0.018 % , respectively . of the total of 33 deaths , 21 involved biopsies of liver lesions ; six involved pancreatic biopsies . seventeen of the 21 deaths after liver biopsies were secondary to hemorrhage ; five of the six deaths after pancreatic biopsies were due to pancreatitis . of the 23 instances of needle tract seeding , 10 occurred after biopsies of pancreatic malignancies . the frequencies of needle tract seeding in the four questionnaires were 0.005 % , 0.006 % , 0.003 % , and 0.009 % , respectively . although infrequent , serious complications may be associated with this procedure . the author makes suggestions that may help minimize them . 
detection of gastric erosions : comparison of biphasic radiography with fiberoptic endoscopy . biphasic radiography was compared with fiberoptic endoscopy in detecting gastric erosions in a prospective , blinded study of 385 patients with dyspepsia . because no absolute standard was available for the comparison , since histologic confirmation of all erosions was not possible , the kappa statistic was used to compare results from both modalities . flat ( incomplete ) erosions were detected with endoscopy only and were considered to be present in 42 patients ( 11.2 % ) . varioliform ( complete ) erosions were identified with both radiography and endoscopy in 12 patients ( 3.2 % ) . for the detection of varioliform erosions , a substantial agreement beyond chance between both modalities was found ( kappa = 0.73 ; standard error , 0.12 ) . thus , flat erosions were detected with endoscopy only , whereas state-of-the-art radiography and endoscopy were equally sensitive for detecting varioliform erosions . histologic confirmation of erosions was obtained in only 75 % of the patients . it is unknown whether the demonstration of erosions with radiography and/or endoscopy correlates with dyspepsia . 
pancreatic cancer versus chronic pancreatitis : diagnosis with ca 19-9 assessment , us , ct , and ct-guided fine-needle biopsy . the authors prospectively performed serum ca 19-9 assessment , ultrasound ( us ) , computed tomography ( ct ) , and ct-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) of the pancreas in 81 consecutive patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis or pancreatic neoplasm . the final diagnosis was pancreatic cancer in 54 patients and chronic pancreatitis in 27 patients . ca 19-9 assessment , us , ct , and fnab were considered nondiagnostic , respectively , in 0 % , 25 % , 19 % , and 6 % of cases . when a definite diagnosis was rendered , the positive predictive value was 90 % for ca 19-9 assessment , 95 % for us , 98 % for ct , and 100 % for fnab ; the negative predictive value was , respectively , 69 % , 95 % , 86 % , and 100 % . the accuracy of all diagnostic and nondiagnostic studies was 81 % for ca 19-9 assessment , 72 % for us , 77 % for ct , and 94 % for fnab . it is concluded that ct-guided pancreatic fnab is the most reliable examination for enabling differential diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and chronic pancreatitis . when the pancreas is well visualized at us , the negative predictive value for pancreatic cancer is more accurate than that of ca 19-9 assessment and ct . 
disruption of the human scl locus by " illegitimate " v - ( d ) - j recombinase activity . a fusion complementary dna in the t cell line hsb-2 elucidates a provocative mechanism for the disruption of the putative hematopoietic transcription factor scl . the fusion cdna results from an interstitial deletion between a previously unknown locus , sil ( scl interrupting locus ) , and the 5 ' untranslated region of scl . similar to 1 ; 14 translocations , this deletion disrupts the scl 5 ' regulatory region . this event is probably mediated by v - ( d ) - j recombinase activity , although neither locus is an immunoglobulin or a t cell receptor . two other t cell lines , cem and rpmi 8402 , have essentially identical deletions . thus , in lymphocytes , growth-affecting genes other than immune receptors risk rearrangements . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome after limited resection of adenocarcinoma of the lung . two cases of the adult respiratory distress syndrome developed after limited resection for lung carcinoma . no other known precipitants were evident . the adult respiratory distress syndrome is a clinical expression of acute lung injury that may arise from various insults and include air and blood borne factors . tumour related blood borne factors may have contributed to lung injury in these cases . 
diffuse alveolar haemorrhage associated with progressive systemic sclerosis . a 41 year old man with an eight year history of progressive systemic sclerosis developed severe diffuse alveolar haemorrhage and died . the importance of diffuse alveolar haemorrhage as a rare but potentially serious complication of connective tissue disease should not be overlooked . 
prognostic indicators of the resolution of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and survival of the fetus . to delineate any possible prognostic indicators , we reviewed the ultrasonographic and nonmorphometric findings in 19 antenatally diagnosed cases of nonimmune hydrops fetalis in which it was chosen to continue the pregnancy . thirteen fetuses died and six survived . of all parameters examined , including associated anomalies , abnormal karyotype , location of serous fluid , anemia , and possible cause of nonimmune hydrops fetalis , the most sensitive prognostic indicator was the real-time-directed m-mode echocardiographic measurement of the biventricular outer dimension in diastole . all fetuses with biventricular outer dimensions greater than 95 % died , whereas all but one with normal biventricular outer dimensions had resolution of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and survived . this was highly significant ( p less than 0.001 ) with the predictive value of a normal biventricular outer dimension being 86 % and the predictive value of an enlarged biventricular outer dimension being 100 % . 
correlation of the testicular determinant factor sequence zinc finger y with varying gonadal phenotypes in a series of 13 subjects with gonadal dysgenesis due to y aneuploidy . deoxyribonucleic acid samples from a series of 13 subjects with 45 , x/46 , x , altered y , and varying gonadal phenotypes ( streak-streak , n = 9 ; streak-testis , n = 2 ; testis-testis , n = 2 ) were analyzed for the presence of the candidate testicular determinant factor sequence zinc finger y. the y-specific probes y97 mapped to y centromere , pdp105 a , b mapped to yp and distal yq11 , respectively , hybridized with the deoxyribonucleic acid from all the 13 study subjects . the same deoxyribonucleic acid samples were analyzed for the presence of the zinc finger y sequence . eleven of the 13 subjects were positive for the zinc finger y sequence . four zinc finger y-positive subjects had unilateral ( n = 2 ) or bilateral ( n = 2 ) testicular differentiation . among the nine subjects with bilateral streak gonads , seven showed the presence of this sequence . the lack of testicular differentiation in the presence of quantitatively normal or almost normal zinc finger y bands could not be explained by mosaicism alone . mutations not detectable by analysis with the method of southern with pdp1007 , may occur in the testicular determinant factor gene vitiating testicular development . 
specific binding sites for insulin-like growth factor i in the ovarian stroma of women with polycystic ovarian disease and stromal hyperthecosis . women with polycystic ovarian disease and hyperthecosis have hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance . it is possible that insulin in supraphysiologic concentration exerts its steroidogenic action on ovarian stromal cells through insulin-like growth factor i receptors . we undertook this study to investigate whether the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis has specific binding sites for insulin or insulin-like growth factor i. ovarian stromal tissue was obtained from seven women with normal ovulatory cycles and from five women with hyperthecosis of the ovaries . binding studies with insulin tagged with iodine 125 and insulin-like growth factor i tagged with iodine 125 revealed specific binding sites both for insulin and insulin-like growth factor i in the ovarian stroma . the binding of insulin tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis ( 3.4 % + / - 1.1 % ( + / - se ) per 100 micrograms protein ) was significantly ( p less than 0.04 ) lower than that observed in normal premenopausal women ( 8.3 % + / - 1.6 % per 100 micrograms protein ) . by contrast , the specific binding of insulin-like growth factor i tagged with iodine 125 in the ovarian stroma of women with hyperthecosis ( 7.1 % + / - 1.7 % per 100 micrograms protein ) was higher than that observed in the ovarian stroma from normal women ( 4.5 % + / - 1.7 % per 100 micrograms protein ) , although the difference was not statistically significant . the affinity constants for these high-affinity receptors were similar ( 1.2 to 3.6 x 10 ( 9 ) l/mol ) in the two groups of women . these results indicate that ( 1 ) the ovarian stroma has specific binding sites both for insulin and for insulin-like growth factor i ; ( 2 ) in women with hyperthecosis , the ovarian stroma has decreased binding sites for insulin but has normal concentrations of insulin-like growth factor i receptors ; and ( 3 ) in women with hyperthecosis , stimulation of ovarian androgen synthesis by insulin may be mediated through the insulin-like growth factor i receptors . 
gastrointestinal disease and oral contraception . oral contraceptive steroids play a major role in modern family planning . with the present tendency to decrease the doses of both estrogens and progestogens , any factor that reduces the bioavailability of the lower-dose preparations may have an impact on contraceptive protection . although ethinyl estradiol , the most commonly used oral estrogen , is liable to an enterohepatic circulation as unchanged drug , the commonly used progestogens are not . at present , no convincing evidence exists in the human subject that disruption of the enterohepatic circulation by antibiotics or antacids does reduce contraceptive efficacy of the pill . oral contraceptive steroids are mainly absorbed from the small bowel , and contraceptive efficacy depends on its absorptive capacity . enhanced passage of gastrointestinal contents or impaired absorption may thus contribute to contraceptive failures in patients who have chronic inflammatory disease , diarrhea , ileostomy , or jejunoileal bypass . 
interpleural analgesia after thoracotomy . we examined the effects of the following variables on interpleural analgesia after thoracotomy : addition of epinephrine to local anesthetic , thoracostomy drainage , two-catheter placement , and location of catheter tips . twenty patients were randomized to have one catheter ( paravertebral tip location ) or two catheters ( paravertebral and lateral thoracic wall tip locations ) . interpleural catheters were sutured to the parietal pleura by the surgeon at time of wound closure . patients were then randomly assigned to receive 20 ml of 0.5 % bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine through the single catheter or 10 ml of 0.5 % bupivacaine with or without 1:200,000 epinephrine through each of the two catheters while supine . bupivacaine concentrations in whole blood and in thoracostomy drainage fluid were assayed by gas chromatography . actual content of bupivacaine in the drainage fluid was calculated . degree of analgesia was assessed by verbal numerical pain scores over the first 4 h and opioid demand thereafter . addition of epinephrine to bupivacaine did not influence the degree of analgesia . approximately 30 % -40 % of any administered dose of bupivacaine was lost via the thoracostomy tube over a 4-h period . there was no correlation between the true initial dose ( 100 mg minus thoracostomy drainage ) and cmax . use of two catheters resulted in significantly less opioid requirements after an initial 8-h period . failure to achieve adequate interpleural analgesia in postthoracotomy patients may be related to loss of anesthetic via thoracostomy drainage , presence of extravasated blood and tissue fluid in the pleural space , and possibly sequestration and channeling of flow of local anesthetic by restricted motion of an operated lung . 
steal-prone coronary anatomy and myocardial ischemia associated with four primary anesthetic agents in humans . to examine the relationship between myocardial ischemia in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy and the administration of isoflurane anesthesia , we reviewed coronary angiograms of 955 patients who had participated in a randomized trial of the use of one of four primary anesthetics for coronary artery bypass operations . steal-prone anatomy was found in 31.8 % of patients who had received enflurane ; 40.0 % , halothane ; 32.6 % , isoflurane ; and 31.7 % , sufentanil . detected by greater than or equal to 0.1 mv st segment displacement , ischemia during anesthesia occurred in 290 ( 30.4 % ) of all patients with no difference in the incidence among the four primary anesthetics ( 27.5 % -32.9 % ) . patients with steal-prone anatomy did not suffer more ischemia than patients who needed coronary artery bypass surgery but with other varieties of coronary anatomy . in patients with steal-prone coronary anatomy , the incidence of myocardial ischemia by primary anesthetic was 24.0 % with enflurane , 34.4 % with halothane , 32.1 % with isoflurane , and 38.2 % with sufentanil . systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg during anesthesia occurred in 416 ( 45.6 % ) patients and was twice as common during administration of volatile anesthetics than during that of sufentanil . hypotension did not increase ischemia frequency in patients with steal-prone anatomy with use of any of the four primary anesthetics including isoflurane . ischemia was temporally related to hypotension in only 9 patients ( 0.9 % ) . in none of the 42 patients who had steal-prone anatomy and hypotension during isoflurane anesthesia was ischemia temporally related to hypotension . 
a blinded comparison of noninvasive , in vivo phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and the in vitro halothane/caffeine contracture test in the evaluation of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility . malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) is a potentially fatal , anesthetic-induced syndrome . currently , the only accurate means of diagnosing susceptibility to this syndrome is the testing of biopsied skeletal muscle for its contracture response to halothane and caffeine . a less invasive means of diagnosis is needed . the authors previously reported that mh-susceptible patients studied by in vivo phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance ( 31p nmr ) spectroscopy demonstrated a higher resting inorganic phosphate ( pi ) to phosphocreatine ( pcr ) ratio in their skeletal muscle , as well as a slower postexercise recovery of pcr/pi , when compared to normal controls . in the present blinded study , the authors compared in vivo 31p nmr determination of resting pi/pcr and recovery rate of pcr/pi in forearm muscles to in vitro halothane/caffeine contracture test results in 42 patients . forty-three control subjects were studied to establish normal nmr values of resting pi/pcr and recovery rate of pcr/pi . their findings were compared with those of 27 patients shown to be mh-susceptible and 15 patients mh-negative by contracture testing . the mh-susceptible group had a significantly ( p less than 0.005 ) higher resting pi/pcr value ( 0.202 + / - 0.044 ) than either the mh-negative ( 0.152 + / - 0.043 ) or the control ( 0.141 + / - 0.026 ) group . the mh-susceptible group also had a significantly ( p less than 0.02 ) slower postexercise recovery rate of pcr/pi ( 1.50 + / - 0.872 pcr.pi-1 . min-1 ) than either the mh-negative ( 2.11 + / - 1.07 pcr.pi-1 . min-1 ) or control ( 2.25 + / - 0.828 pcr.pi-1 . min-1 ) group . twenty-six of the 27 mh-susceptible patients demonstrated abnormal nmr test results ( a resting pi/pcr greater than or equal to 0.18 or recovery rate less than 1.0 pcr.pi-1 . min-1 ) , and 13 of the 15 mh-negative patients had normal nmr results . although neither nmr parameter alone was diagnostically reliable , an nmr test utilizing both parameters was quite accurate . the nmr test and contracture test demonstrated an overall agreement of 93 % with a copositivity of 96 % and conegativity of 87 % . the sensitivity and specificity of the nmr test is estimated to be 98.8 % + / - 11.8 % and 95.3 % + / - 20.3 % , respectively . the role of 31p nmr in the diagnosis of mh susceptibility and possible mechanisms underlying the observations are discussed . 
epidural morphine with butorphanol for postoperative analgesia after cesarean delivery . epidural morphine has been used more and more to provide long-lasting postoperative analgesia after cesarean delivery . however , the incidence of pruritus ( 20 % -93 % ) and nausea ( 17 % -60 % ) detract from the usefulness of epidural morphine . the purpose of this study was to evaluate , in 30 patients having epidural anesthesia for cesarean delivery , the analgesic efficacy and side effects when a combination of epidural morphine , a mu-receptor agonist , and butorphanol , a mu-receptor antagonist and kappa-receptor agonist , was administered . after clamping of the umbilical cord , patients received 4 mg epidural morphine with 3 ml of normal saline ( group 1 ) , 4 mg epidural morphine with 1 mg butorphanol and 2 ml of normal saline ( group 2 ) , or 4 mg epidural morphine with 3 mg butorphanol ( group 3 ) . patients were monitored for 24 h after administration of the study medications . there were no significant differences between the groups in visual analogue pain scores , time to first analgesic request , respiratory rate , or trieger dot test performance in the 24 h immediately after these epidural injections . there were three patients in group 1 and one patient in group 2 who experienced oxygen saturations less than 90 % . ( no patients in group 3 developed an oxygen saturation less than 92 % . ) the patients in group 3 did not require treatment for pruritus or nausea , a response significantly different ( p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.05 , respectively ) from group 1 or group 2 . 
efficacy of ephedrine in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting . although reported in the aerospace literature and anecdotally by anesthesiologists , the putative antiemetic effect of ephedrine remains unquantitated . we therefore prospectively studied ephedrine as an antiemetic agent in the perioperative setting in 97 patients undergoing general anesthesia for outpatient gynecologic laparoscopy . patients were assigned in a double-blind randomized fashion to receive a standardized general anesthetic followed by an intramuscular dose of either ephedrine ( 0.5 mg/kg ) , droperidol ( 0.04 mg/kg ) , or saline before the conclusion of surgery . nausea , retching , or vomiting , as well as the degree of sedation and discharge times , were assessed in the recovery room and for 24 h postoperatively . ephedrine was found to have a significantly antiemetic effect ( p less than 0.05 ) when compared with placebo and an antiemetic effect similar to that of droperidol . sedation scores were also significantly less in the ephedrine group than in both placebo and droperidol groups . finally , variations in mean arterial blood pressure among the three groups were not statistically significant . we conclude that ephedrine is an effective antiemetic agent with minimal sedative side effects in patients undergoing outpatient laparoscopy . 
effective doses of epidural morphine for relief of postcholecystectomy pain . having previously established the effective dose of intrathecal morphine for relief of postcholecystectomy pain , we determined in this study the effective dose of epidural morphine for relief of postcholecystectomy pain in 154 patients given epidural injections of a placebo ( group 1 , n = 49 ) , 2 mg morphine ( group 2 , n = 54 ) , or 4 mg morphine ( group 3 , n = 51 ) intraoperatively mixed in 1.5 % lidocaine . the percentage of patients who did not request an analgesic , 30 mg im pentazocine , for relief of pain during the first 24 postoperative hours was significantly greater in groups 2 and 3 than in group 1 . in patients who did need 30 mg im pentazocine postoperatively , the number of times pentazocine was administered was also significantly greater in group 1 than in groups 2 and 3 . the percentage of patients developing respiratory depression or vomiting in the first 48 postoperative hours was similar in the three groups . based on the present data and those we previously reported for intrathecal morphine , we conclude that an epidural morphine dose of 2-4 mg and an intrathecal morphine dose of 0.06-0 .12 mg are equipotent for relief of postcholecystectomy pain . 
effect of obesity on safe duration of apnea in anesthetized humans . obese patients have a decreased functional residual capacity and , hence , a reduced oxygen supply during periods of apnea . to determine whether obese patients are at greater risk of developing hypoxemia during induction of anesthesia than patients of normal weight , 24 patients undergoing elective surgical procedures were studied . group 1 ( normal ) were within 20 % of their ideal body weight . group 2 ( obese ) were more than 20 % but less than 45.5 kg over ideal body weight . group 3 ( morbidly obese ) were more than 45.5 kg over ideal body weight . patients were preoxygenated for 5 min or until expired nitrogen was less than 5 % . after induction of anesthesia and muscle relaxation the patients were allowed to remain apneic until arterial saturation as measured by pulse oximetry reached 90 % . the time taken for oxygen saturation to decrease to 90 % was 364 + / - 24 s in group 1 , 247 + / - 21 s in group 2 , and 163 + / - 15 s in group 3 ; these times are significantly different at p less than 0.05 between groups . regression analysis of the data demonstrated a significant negative linear correlation ( r = -0.83 ) between time to desaturation and increasing obesity . these results show that obese patients are at an increased risk of developing hypoxemia when apneic . 
plasma immunoreactive leukotriene c4 levels in patients with kawasaki disease . the incidence of wheezing in kawasaki disease ( kd ) has been investigated retrospectively . we measured plasma immunoreactive-leukotriene c4 ( i-ltc4 ) levels of patients with kd . wheezing was observed in 32 ( 12.5 % ) of the 256 patients with kd . patients who had a prior history of bronchial asthma wheezed more frequently than other patients . during the acute stage of kd , plasma i-ltc4 levels both of wheezing and nonwheezing were significantly higher than those of healthy children . during the convalescent stage , plasma i-ltc4 levels of wheezing cases were higher than those of nonwheezing cases . we speculate that ltc4 contributes to the appearance of inflammatory symptoms during the acute stage of kd . during the convalescent stage when patients were taking aspirin , the presence of wheezing was associated with increased plasma levels of i-ltc4 . more attention should be paid to the appearance of wheezing during the course of kd , especially in those cases in which the patient has a prior history of bronchial asthma . 
caffeine and cardiac arrhythmias . purpose : to review the evidence supporting the belief that caffeine causes cardiac arrhythmias . data sources : studies published since 1982 identified through computerized searches of medline , toxline , and chemical abstracts and a review of bibliographies of relevant articles on the subject of caffeine and cardiac arrhythmias . study selection : all clinical studies examining caffeine as a cause of cardiac arrhythmias and a selection of basic science experiments to illustrate caffeine 's effects in vitro . data extraction : study quality was assessed and all available clinical data pertaining to caffeine as a cause of arrhythmias were summarized . results of data analysis : in one electrophysiologic study , caffeine was associated with an increased susceptibility to provoked cardiac arrhythmias . in five placebo-controlled trials , caffeine in doses up to 500 mg daily ( equivalent to 5 to 6 cups of coffee ) did not increase the frequency or severity of ventricular arrhythmias . one large epidemiologic study reported an increase in the frequency of ventricular extrasystoles in persons consuming 9 or more cups of coffee daily . conclusion : moderate ingestion of caffeine does not increase the frequency or severity of cardiac arrhythmias in normal persons , patients with ischemic heart disease , or those with pre-existing serious ventricular ectopy . 
igd immune complex vasculitis in a patient with hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever . we describe a 27-year-old dutch woman with the hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever syndrome . during febrile attacks she occasionally presented with skin lesions on the distal parts of her upper and lower extremities , with the histologic picture of a leukocytoclastic vasculitis . clear perivascular deposits of igd and c3 were presented in early lesional skin on immunofluorescence investigation . circulating igd immune complexes were demonstrated on several occasions , both during and in between clinical attacks . these findings are consistent with an igd immune complex-mediated pathogenesis for the skin lesions . in 10 patients with other forms of immune complex vasculitis of the skin , minimal perivascular deposits of igd were found in four cases . in these cases , however , igd was never found as the solitary immunoglobulin class . 
the effects of tumor necrosis factor on intestinal structure and metabolism . tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , a polypeptide produced predominantly by activated macrophages , is an important mediator of sepsis . we analyzed the specific metabolic changes that occur in the gut following tnf administration . following general anesthesia , hemodynamic and metabolic indices were measured serially in control dogs ( n = 7 ) and animals receiving a continuous sublethal intravenous infusion of tnf ( 0.57.10 ( 5 ) iu/kg/6 hours , n = 7 ) . during tnf infusion mean arterial pressure gradually decreased despite fluid administration , which maintained wedge pressure and cardiac index , which were similar to control animals . while tnf significantly reduced intestinal blood flow to 12 + / - 3 ml/min/kg compared to 28 + / - 3 ml/min/kg ( p less than 0.01 ) in controls , intestinal oxygen consumption was maintained due to an increased extraction rate . despite hypoperfusion the intestinal exchange of metabolic substrate ( glucose , lactate , pyruvate , alanine , glutamine , glutamate , and ammonia ) was comparable between the control and tnf-infused animals . however , when substrate carbon balance across the intestinal tract was calculated , it appeared that there was a limitation in fuel availability in the tnf animals . this may be due to competition for fuel between the gut and other major organs . fuel limitation may jeopardize rapid cell proliferation and mucosal repair and with regional hypoperfusion these processes may account for the mucosal ulcerations observed at the termination of the study . 
the effect of ambulation on recovery from postoperative ileus . to determine whether ambulation hastens recovery from ileus following laparotomy , 34 patients were studied , 10 of whom followed an ambulatory regimen beginning on postoperative day 1 ( group a ) . the other 24 patients ( group c ) did not become ambulatory until postoperative day 4 . all patients underwent placement of seromuscular bipolar recording electrodes on the roux limb , if present , stomach , jejunum , and colon at laparotomy . group a was recorded before and after ambulation so comparisons could be made to determine if ambulation had an acute effect on myoelectric activity . group a preambulation and group c recordings were compared to judge whether there was an over-all effect of ambulation on myoelectric recovery . no effect on slow wave frequency or percentage of slow waves with associated spike potentials was noted acutely or overall in the stomach , colon , or jejunum in continuity with the duodenal pacemaker . transient increases in phase ii spike activity in patients having a roux limb and their jejunum distal to the enteroenterostomy were noted on postoperative days 1 to 2 , but these differences resolved by postoperative days 3 or 4 . the data suggest that ambulation as a means to help resolve postoperative ileus and its accompanying cramps and bloating may be more perceived than real . 
reperfusion inhibits elevated splanchnic prostanoid production after hemorrhagic shock [ published erratum appears in ann surg 1991 feb ; 213 ( 2 ) :91 ] the effect of reperfusion following hemorrhagic shock on splanchnic prostanoid release was studied . anesthetized male rats were bled to a mean arterial blood pressure of 30 mmhg for 30 minutes and either killed or treated with shed blood for 60 minutes and then killed . the superior mesenteric arterial bed was cannulated and perfused in vitro with oxygenated krebs . collected venous effluent ( up to 180 minutes ) was analyzed for 6-keto-pgf1 alpha ( pgi2 metabolite ) , pge2 , pgf2 alpha , and thromboxane b2 by radioimmunoassay in shock , shock plus reperfusion , and sham groups . the major prostanoid released was 6-keto-pgf1 alpha and was three times higher in the shock group compared to the sham group ( p less than 0.05 ) . reperfusion of shed blood abolished the increase in 6-keto-pgf1 alpha found in the shock group ( p less than 0.05 ) . these data show that the attempt of the rat splanchnic bed to compensate for hemorrhagic shock by increasing release of pgi2 ( potent vasodilator ) was abolished during reperfusion of blood . 
evidence for tumor necrosis factor-induced pulmonary microvascular injury after intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury . acute lung injury characterized by increased microvascular permeability is one feature of multiple-organ system failure and the adult respiratory distress syndrome . intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury has been linked to this type of acute lung injury . the purpose of these experiments was to examine the pathogenic mediators that link the two processes , with particular emphasis on the roles of endotoxin and tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) . previously described characteristics of the acute lung injury in this rat model of intestinal ischemia-reperfusion include pulmonary neutrophil sequestration , depletion of lung tissue atp , alveolar endothelial cell disruption , and increased microvascular permeability . plasma levels of tnf in the systemic circulation of sham-operated animals and those with intestinal ischemic injury less than 60 minutes in duration were very low or undetectable . intestinal ischemia for 120 minutes was associated with tnf elevation to 1.19 + / - 0.50 u/ml . reperfusion for periods of 15 and 30 minutes generated 5 - to 10-fold increases in circulating tnf levels ( 6.61 + / - 3.11 u/ml , p greater than 0.05 and 10.41 + / - 5.41 u/ml , p = 0.004 compared to sham ) ; however this increase in circulating tnf was transient and largely cleared within 60 minutes after initiating reperfusion . portal vein endotoxin levels were found to increase significantly before the appearance of tnf in systemic plasma , suggesting that gut-derived endotoxin may induce tnf release from hepatic macrophages into the systemic circulation . anti-tnf antibody attenuated the increase in pulmonary microvascular permeability in this preparation but did not prevent pulmonary neutrophil sequestration . these observations suggest that endotoxin and tnf have pathogenic roles in this acute lung injury , but that mechanisms of adherence of neutrophils to endothelial cells independent of tnf may be involved . the accumulation of neutrophils in the lung but the prevention of a vascular permeability increase in the presence of antibody to tnf may imply an in vivo role for tnf in the process of neutrophil activation . these studies provide additional evidence of the importance of the endogenous inflammatory mediators in the development of systemic injury in response to local tissue injury . 
involvement of thromboxane and neutrophils in multiple-system organ edema with interleukin-2 . interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) produces toxicity characterized by generalized edema within 24 hours . this study tests whether the rate of il-2 administration modulates the onset of edema and examines thromboxane ( tx ) and neutrophils as possible mediators of this event . recombinant human il-2 , 10 ( 5 ) u ( n = 7 ) , 10 ( 6 ) u ( n = 9 ) , or vehicle ( n = 8 ) were given to anesthetized rats intravenously during a period of 1 hour . at 6 hours edema , as measured by increase in wet to dry weight ( w/d ) ratio , was present in the heart , liver , and kidney , with 10 ( 5 ) u il-2 and in the lung , heart , liver and kidney , with 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , relative to values with vehicle-infused controls ( all p less than 0.05 ) . with a 1-hour infusion of 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , there was an increase in plasma thromboxane ( tx ) b2 level to 1290 + / - 245 pg/ml , higher than 481 + / - 93 pg/ml in control rats ( p less than 0.05 ) ; lung polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) sequestration of 53 + / - 7 pmn/10 higher-power fields ( hpf ) relative to 23 + / - 2 pmn/10 hpf in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) ; and increased bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluid protein concentration of 1970 + / - 210 micrograms/ml relative to 460 micrograms/ml in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . when 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 was given as a 1-minute intravenous bolus ( n = 9 ) , edema was not demonstrated , plasma txb2 levels were similar to controls , there was no leukosequestration , and bal protein levels were normal . these data indicate that a constant infusion but not the rapid bolus administration of il-2 produces in rats multiple-system organ edema , increased plasma txb2 , sequestration of pmns , and microvascular permeability . these findings may explain the early toxicity seen in patients given high-dose il-2 in cancer treatment . 
recovery from vegetative state of six months ' duration associated with sinemet ( levodopa/carbidopa ) . certain pharmacologic interventions may improve outcome for brain injury in animals and humans . medications affecting the dopaminergic pathway appear to be important . we present the case of a 24-year-old man with traumatic brain injury who remained unresponsive to commands and unchanged for six months despite periodic aggressive therapy . within days of beginning sinemet ( levodopa/carbidopa ) , the patient became conversant and responsive . the reported low likelihood of spontaneous recovery of cognition in patients who are vegetative for six months suggests that sinemet was responsible for this patient 's recovery . in this case , the relatively small risk of side effects from sinemet was greatly outweighed by the change in functional outcome . 
threshold perimetry in tilted disc syndrome . twelve consecutive patients ( 17 eyes ) with tilted disc syndrome underwent quantified visual field examination with the g1 octopus program ( interzeag ag , schlieren , switzerland ) . visual fields were abnormal in all cases . although field loss was more pronounced in the superotemporal quadrant ( p less than .001 ) , it also involved the other three quadrants , thus demonstrating that optic nerve hypoplasia in tilted disc syndrome is apparently not entirely sectorial . linear regression analysis showed that an increase in mean defect correlated with increase in myopic refractive error ( p less than .05 ) . however , the increase in myopic refractive error was found to be related to a decrease in corrected loss variance ( p less than .05 ) , indicating that in tilted discs with higher myopia , field loss is more homogeneous . with this series of patients , short-term fluctuation was within normal ranges in all visual fields , showing that this may be an additional clue for differential diagnosis from acquired disorders . 
pars plana vitrectomy for acute retinal detachment in penetrating ocular injuries . we studied 41 eyes with acute retinal detachment after penetrating ocular trauma in a retrospective cohort analysis . pars plana vitrectomy was performed in 28 eyes , while the remaining 13 eyes had only primary repair and closure of the wound . the two groups differed in the type of trauma ( more gunshot wounds in the vitrectomy group and more blunt injuries in the nonvitrectomized group ) . visual success ( visual acuity of 5/200 or better ) was observed in 10 ( 37 % ) of the eyes treated by vitrectomy compared with one ( 8 % ) of the eyes in the nonvitrectomy group . anatomic success was achieved in 21 ( 75 % ) of the eyes in the vitrectomy group but in only one ( 8 % ) of those in the nonvitrectomy group . enucleation or phthisis was observed in seven ( 54 % ) of the eyes in the nonvitrectomy group compared with only five ( 18 % ) in the vitrectomy group . significant prognostic factors for anatomic outcome in the vitrectomy group were the location of the laceration and the presence of the lens . 
respiratory epithelium in a cystic choristoma of the limbus . a female newborn had a cystic , whitish gray mass at the inferotemporal limbus of the left eye . at age 3 weeks , the newborn underwent excision of the tumor , corneal patch grafting , and superior sector optical iridectomy . histopathologic and electron microscopic examination of the excised tissue revealed a choristoma consisting of cysts lined with respiratory epithelium . to our knowledge , respiratory epithelium in a limbal choristoma has not been previously reported . 
topical fibronectin and aprotinin for keratectomy wound healing in rabbits . we evaluated the effect of fibronectin ( an adhesive protein ) and aprotinin ( a protease inhibitor ) as single or combined topical therapies for primary healing and prevention of recurrent corneal epithelial defects in the rabbit keratectomy wound model . the biological activity of the prepared solutions of rabbit plasma fibronectin ( 0.6 g/l ) was suggested by in vitro assays of rabbit corneal epithelial cell adhesion and gelatin-binding affinity . in the first experiment , we compared fibronectin , albumin ( a control nonadhesive protein ) , and saline . in the second and third experiments , fibronectin supplemented with aprotinin , aprotinin alone , and saline were compared ; aprotinin was used at concentrations of 40 and 1000 kallikrein inactivating units ( kiu ) per mililiter . our results suggest that topical fibronectin , 0.6 g/l , as well as aprotinin at 40 - and 1000-kiu/ml concentrations , given alone or in combination , neither promote corneal epithelial wound healing nor prevent recurrent corneal epithelial defects in rabbit keratectomy wounds . 
a new ophthalmic electronic videoendoscope system for intraocular surgery . a new ophthalmic electronic videoendoscope system has a 20-guage probe for intraocular observation , a standard size for vitreous microsurgical instruments , and both endoscopic and operating microscopic images are displayed on a split-screen monitor system to provide surgeos a simultaneous view of both images . using this endoscope system at any time during surgery , surgeons can examine the intraocular structure such as the ciliary sulcus , pars plana , or vitreous base and obtain valuable but otherwise unobtainable information for completing the surgery . 
long-term ( 5 to 20 years ) evolution of nongrafted aplastic anemias . the cooperative group for the study of aplastic and refractory anemias . in the presence of aplastic anemia ( aa ) , therapeutic choices should be determined while taking into account not only changes for immediate improvement , but also both the risks for late-occurring complications and the following quality of life . we report here data concerning a long-term clinical survey ( 5 to 18 years with a median of 12 years ) including 156 nongrafted patients receiving androgen therapy ; all patients were alive more than 5 years after diagnosis ( 40 % of patients included at time of diagnosis in our multicentric analysis ) . between the 5th and the 13th year follow-up , 21 patients died of various causes either related to aa or to its treatment : 12 of infection or hemorrhage secondary to pancytopenia ( 6 relapses and 6 that had never been improved ; 2 with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria [ pnh ] ) ; 5 of leukemia ; 1 of a non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ; 2 of late side effects following transfusion ( 1 acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and 1 chronic b hepatitis ) ; and a single case of myocardial infarction ( the latter could possibly result of androgen therapy ) . thirteen patients in total developed pnh ( among which 10 had clinical symptoms including 2 deaths , and 3 exhibited only biologic abnormalities ) . few long-term side effects of androgens could be noticed . adult height was normal in patients treated during childhood and so was young women 's fertility . no malignant hepatoma occurred . this survey allows the recording of late spontaneous hematologic improvement ( between 5 and 10 years of evolution ) . this occurred in 50 % of patients that had remained cytopenic 5 years after diagnosis . although bone marrow stem cell concentration remained abnormal after 10 years of evolution . 85 % of patients had a normal red blood cell count , 80 % a normal polymorphonuclear count , and 66 % a normal platelet count . all patients who did not show late complications had an excellent quality of life . 
transformation-associated alterations in interactions between pre-b cells and fibronectin . marrow stromal elements produce as yet uncharacterized soluble growth factors that can stimulate the proliferation of murine pre-b cells , although close contact between these two cell types appears to ensure a better pre-b cell response . we have now shown that freshly isolated normal pre-b cells ( ie , the b220 + , surface mu - fraction of adult mouse bone marrow ) adhere to fibronectin ( fn ) via an rgd cell-attachment site , as shown in a serum-free adherence assay , and they lose this functional ability on differentiation in vivo into b cells ( ie , the b220 + , surface mu + fraction ) . similarly , cells from an immortalized but stromal cell-dependent and nontumorigenic murine pre-b cell line originally derived from a whitlock-witte culture were also found to adhere to fibronectin ( fn ) via an rgd cell-attachment site . moreover , in the presence of anti-fn receptor antibodies , the ability of this immortalized pre-b cell line to proliferate when co-cultured with a supportive stromal cell line ( m2-10b4 cells ) was markedly reduced ( down to 30 % of control ) . this suggests that pre-b cell attachment to fn on stromal cells may be an important component of the mechanism by which stromal cells stimulate normal pre-b cell proliferation and one that is no longer operative to control their more differentiated progeny . two differently transformed pre-b cell lines , both of which are autocrine , stromal-independent , tumorigenic in vivo , and partially or completely differentiation-arrested at a very early stage of pre-b cell development , did not bind to fn . in addition , anti-fn receptor antibodies were much less effective in diminishing the ability of these tumorigenic pre-b cells to respond to m2-10b4 cell stimulation , which could still be demonstrated when the tumorigenic pre-b cells were co-cultured with m2-10b4 cells at a sufficiently low cell density . analysis of cell surface molecules immunoprecipitated from both the nontumorigenic and tumorigenic pre-b cell lines by an anti-fn receptor antibody showed an increase in very late antigen ( vla ) alpha chain ( s ) in both tumorigenic pre-b cell lines and a decrease in the beta 1 chain in one . interestingly , all of the pre-b cell lines expressed similar amounts of messenger rna for the beta 1 chain of the fn receptor . these results suggest that alteration of fn receptor expression on pre-b cells may represent a mechanism contributing to the outgrowth of leukemic pre-b cells with an autocrine phenotype and capable of stromal cell-independent , autonomous growth . 
cd11c ( leu-m5 ) expression characterizes a b-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorder with features of both chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hairy cell leukemia . chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) and hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) are two common chronic lymphoproliferative disorders , each having characteristic clinical , morphologic , and immunologic features . phenotypically , cd5 reactivity in cll and cd11c ( leu-m5 ) reactivity in hcl have characterized these two leukemias among b-cell disorders . in this study , we report 14 cases of a novel chronic lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by lymphocytosis and cd11c expression , but morphologically similar to cll . the patients ' ages ranged from 46 to 81 years ( median 62 ) . eleven had palpable splenomegaly , five with markedly enlarged spleens ; only one patient had generalized lymphadenopathy . the white blood cell count ranged from 5.2 to 131.0 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ( median 20.8 ) . the morphologic diagnosis in all cases was cll , with the cells usually having abundant cytoplasm . no morphologic features , of hairy cells were evident ; tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase cytochemistry was negative in all cases . bone marrow biopsies were available in 8 of 14 . four showed focal nodular infiltrates and two had diffuse infiltrates similar to cll ; two showed only minimal interstitial involvement . all cases expressed multiple b-cell markers , and 12 of 14 had monoclonal surface immunoglobulin . the leukemic cells of all cases strongly expressed cd11c , while cd5 was expressed in 7 of 14 ; only 1 of the 14 cases expressed the lymph node homing receptor , leu-8 . this unique group of leukemias appears to represent the malignant transformation of lymphocytes arising from a stage of lymphocyte differentiation between that found in typical cases of cll and that of hcl . cd11c is known to have an important function in cellular adhesion and may be important in determining the pattern of lymphocyte tissue distribution found in this group of patients . 
detection of breakpoint cluster region - negative and nonclonal hematopoiesis in vitro and in vivo after transplantation of cells selected in cultures of chronic myeloid leukemia marrow . philadelphia ( ph1 ) chromosome-positive clonogenic progenitors usually disappear within 4 to 6 weeks in long-term cultures established from the marrow of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) . in contrast , coexisting chromosomally normal hematopoietic cells are relatively well maintained . thus , even though normal cells are initially undetectable , they may become the predominant population . recently , we have begun to explore the potential of such cultures as a strategy for preparing cml marrow for autografting , and based on cytogenetic studies of the differential kinetics of ph1-positive and ph1-negative clonogenic cells , have chosen a 10-day period in culture to obtain maximal numbers of selectively enriched normal stem cells . here we present the results of molecular analyses of the cells regenerated in vivo for the initial three cml patients to be treated using this approach by comparison with the differentiated cells generated by continued maintenance of an aliquot of the autograft in vitro ( using a slightly modified culture feeding procedure to enhance the production and release of cells into the nonadherent fraction after 4 weeks ) for the one patient whose genotype made molecular analysis of clonality status also possible . these analyses showed that cells with a rearranged breakpoint cluster region ( bcr ) gene were not detectable by southern blotting in either in vitro or in vivo populations of mature cells that might be assumed to represent the progeny of primitive cells present at the end of the initial 10 days in culture . production of bcr-negative cells was also shown to be temporally correlated with the appearance of nonclonal hematopoietic cells both in culture and in vivo . these findings provide support for the view that prolonged maintenance of cml marrow cells in long-term culture may allow molecular characterization of both the bcr-genotype and clonality status of cells with in vivo regenerative potential . 
remitting seronegative symmetrical synovitis with pitting oedema in young adults : a subset of rheumatoid arthritis or a distinct syndrome ? three young adult patients with seronegative symmetrical polysynovitis affecting the peripheral joints with pitting oedema of both dorsum of hands and feet are described . all of these patients had a benign course and resolved completely within 10-15 months of the onset . none developed any deformities or erosions and/or relapse of arthritis after prolonged follow-up . 
decrease in mean platelet survival time in acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( apsgn ) . in an attempt to study further the possible participation of platelets in the pathogenesis of acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( apsgn ) , we studied the platelet survival time , as an index of platelet activation , in 22 patients with apsgn . mean platelet survival time was computed from the disappearance of radioactivity from blood , sampled serially after injection of autologous 51cr-labelled platelets . c1q solid phase elisa and conglutinin ( k ) solid phase elisa were used to measure the serum levels of immune complexes . the platelet survival time in apsgn patients was 113 + / - 10 h vs 197 + / - 10 h in the control group ( p less than 0.001 ) ; 68 % of the patients had a shortened platelet survival , lower than 95 % confidence limit . there was a significant increase in the platelet survival in the six patients that were studied after recovery from acute nephritic syndrome . there was no significant association between the mean platelet times survival and cics ( circulating immune complexes ) . similarly , no significant correlation was found between the mean platelet lifespan and the severity of the glomerular disease , as assessed by the serum creatinine level and the proteinuria . these results support evidence of platelet activation and consumption in apsgn and we suggest that this activation occurs in the glomeruli capillary wall , due to platelet-vascular wall interaction . 
changes in interferon receptors on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with chronic hepatitis b being treated with interferon . we studied the binding of 125i-labeled human interferon-alpha to peripheral blood mononuclear cells and the activity of 2 ' ,5 ' - oligoadenylate synthetase in peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from 21 patients with chronic hepatitis b who were treated with human interferon-alpha or interferon-beta . fourteen patients were given interferon daily for 4 wk . interferon receptors per cell decreased to about 50 % of baseline but increased to baseline by 2 wk after therapy ended . the activity of 2 ' ,5 ' - oligoadenylate synthetase rose about fivefold during therapy , decreasing to baseline by 1 wk after the end of therapy . the seven other patients were given interferon daily for 2 wk , no interferon for 2 wk and then interferon daily for 2 wk more . during both periods of therapy on this schedule , interferon receptors decreased to about 50 % but returned to baseline 1 wk after the interferon was stopped . the activity of 2 ' ,5 ' - oligoadenylate synthetase increased about fivefold during both the first and second periods of therapy and decreased to baseline 1 wk after interferon was stopped . close negative correlation existed between the number of interferon receptors and the 2 ' ,5 ' - oligoadenylate synthetase activity . the results of interferon therapy could not be predicted by either the numbers of interferon receptors before therapy or by the decrease in this number during therapy . 
interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of recombinant alpha-interferon treatment in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection . in a randomized controlled trial of recombinant alpha-2a interferon for chronic hepatitis b , interferon antibodies developed in 21 ( 39 % ) of 54 chinese adults who received ifn . no correlation was observed between sex , age , pretreatment serum alt level or liver histological findings and the development of interferon antibodies . antibodies were significantly more likely to develop in patients who received lower doses ( 2.5 or 5 mu/m2 ) of alpha-2a interferon than in those who received a higher dose ( 10 mu/m2 ) : 53 % vs. 11 % ( p = 0.006 ) . the development of interferon antibodies appeared to reverse the initial antiviral response to treatment , with reappearance of hepatitis b virus dna in serum in 12 patients and hbeag in three patients . sustained clearance of hbeag was achieved in only one ( 5 % ) patient but was achieved in seven ( 21 % ) patients without interferon antibodies . the mere presence of interferon antibodies did not preclude an antiviral response to interferon therapy , but patients with high titer neutralizing antibodies were less likely to respond . these findings suggest that interferon antibodies may negate the antiviral effects of alpha-2a interferon . a higher incidence of interferon antibodies in chinese vs. white patients with chronic hepatitis b may contribute to the poorer antiviral response in chinese patients . 
a biphasic pattern of anti-pre-s responses in acute hepatitis b virus infection . the clinical relevance of the immune response to the translation products of the pre-s1 and pre-s2 regions of hepatitis b virus was examined by testing sequential serum samples from 17 patients with acute self-limited hepatitis b and from two patients in whom chronic liver disease developed . anti-pre-s antibodies were determined by enzyme immunoassays based on the inhibition of binding of monoclonal antibodies to epitopes in the pre-s1 and pre-s2 sequence . in acute , self-limited infection , anti-pre-s antibodies appeared in a biphasic pattern . the early antibodies were detected at the time of clinical signs of acute disease when hbsag and often hbeag were present , but hepatitis b virus dna was no longer detectable in serum . anti-pre-s levels then fell , but subsequently reappeared as the late antibody during the recovery phase , after development of anti-hbe , but before anti-hbs . anti-pre-s responses were detected in 15 of 17 patients who recovered ( 88.2 % ) and in both patients with acute hepatitis b virus infection evolving to chronic liver disease . although the early antibodies to pre-s1 and pre-s2 proteins appeared at the time of decreasing levels of infectious virus in serum in cases of self-limited infection , these antibodies also were transiently or continuously present with high levels of serum hepatitis b virus dna in patients in whom chronic hepatitis b infection developed . thus the anti-pre-s response in acute hepatitis is not a prognostic marker for clinical resolution . 
early and frequent detection of hbxag and/or anti-hbx in hepatitis b virus infection . to clarify the significance of the x gene of hepatitis b virus , we have tested for anti-hbx in the serum and hbxag in the liver at different stages of the natural history of hepatitis b virus infection . sera were screened by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and positive results confirmed by immunoblot . purified recombinant ms2 pol-hbx fusion protein was used as target for both assays . among serial sera of patients with nonfulminant acute hepatitis , 24 of 64 patients ( 37.5 % ) were positive for anti-hbx . in fulminant cases , 15 of 36 patients ( 42 % ) had anti-hbx . in chronic hepatitis patients with high rates of hepatitis b virus replication , we found a significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) higher prevalence of anti-hbx , 14 of 25 patients ( 56 % ) , than in those with low replication , 14 of 66 patients ( 21 % ) , or among asymptomatic hbsag carrier blood donors ( 20 of 126 = 16 % ) without detectable hepatitis b virus replication ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the highest prevalence of anti-hbx was found in hbsag carriers with cirrhosis ( 41 of 54 patients = 76 % ) and/or with hepatocellular carcinoma ( 18 of 33 patients = 54 % ) . the findings suggest that anti-hbx appears as a common and early marker of hepatitis b virus infection , transient in self-limited hepatitis but persisting with progression to chronicity . in chronic hepatitis , the prevalence of anti-hbx correlated with the intensity and duration of hepatitis b virus replication but neither with the severity of the liver disease nor with malignant transformation per se . 
defects in the precore region of the hbv genome in patients with chronic hepatitis b after sustained seroconversion from hbeag to anti-hbe induced spontaneously or with interferon therapy . hepatitis b virus dna clones were propagated from sera of six patients with chronic hepatitis b who seroconverted from hbeag to antibody to hbeag either spontaneously or after administration of alpha-interferon . defects in the precore region blocking synthesis and secretion of hbeag were detected in all 46 hepatitis b virus dna clones from three patients who remained positive for antibody to hbeag and in whom hepatitis resolved . defective clones had point mutations from guanine to adenine at nucleotide 83 in the precore region , converting codon 28 from tryptophan ( tgg ) to a stop codon ( tag ) . in contrast , this defect was not found in any of 39 hepatitis b virus dna clones from three patients who seroconverted to antibody to hbeag but then redeveloped hbeag with reactivation of hepatitis . using these results , the g-to-a point mutation at nucleotide 83 in the precore region would predict sustained positivity for antibody to hbeag and remission of hepatitis in patients who have seroconverted either spontaneously or with interferon therapy . 
influence of hepatitis delta virus replication in the presence of hepatitis b virus dna in peripheral blood mononuclear cells . the presence of hepatitis b virus dna was studied in peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 259 hbsag carriers ( 229 anti-hepatitis delta negative , 30 anti-hepatitis delta positive ) , 16 anti-hbc-positive hbsag-negative patients and 30 patients without hepatitis b virus markers . hepatitis b virus dna sequences were detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from 115 ( 44.4 % ) of the chronic hbsag carriers and from two ( 12 % ) of the anti-hbc-positive , hbsag-negative patients . in anti-hepatitis delta-negative patients , viral dna was positive in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from 74 ( 46 % ) and from 24 ( 35.5 % ) with and without serum hbv-dna , respectively . with respect to anti-hepatitis delta-positive patients , viral dna was found in peripheral blood mononuclear cell in 8 of 13 ( 61.5 % ) of the patients with circulating hepatitis delta virus rna and in 9 of 17 ( 53 % ) of the hepatitis delta virus rna-negative subjects . regarding hepatitis b virus dna in serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cell , 71 % ( 5 of 7 ) of the patients with serum hepatitis b virus dna had this marker in peripheral blood mononuclear cell , whereas 52 % ( 12 of 23 ) of the patients without serum hepatitis b virus dna had hepatitis b virus dna in peripheral blood mononuclear cell . a southern blot analysis was also carried out on peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 30 patients . hepatitis b virus dna was detected in 16 patients as free forms , in 12 patients as dimers and free forms and as free circular together with free linear forms in the remaining two patients . 
decreased toxicity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils toward hepatocytes isolated from rats with acute inflammatory reaction . we have recently demonstrated that polymorphonuclear neutrophils were toxic to hepatocytes through a protease-mediated mechanism . since synthesis of antiproteases is markedly increased during acute inflammatory reaction , the aim of this work was to investigate the toxicity of neutrophils against normal vs. inflammatory rat hepatocytes . acute inflammatory reaction was induced by subcutaneous injection of turpentine 24 hr before the experiments . hepatocytes from normal and turpentine-treated rats were isolated by collagenase digestion . they were incubated with human neutrophils stimulated by 1 mg/ml opsonized zymosan . cytotoxicity was quantified by the percentage of alanine aminotransferase activity released by hepatocytes in culture medium after an 18-hr incubation period . by comparison to normal hepatocytes , inflammatory hepatocytes were more resistant to the toxicity of neutrophils . at a neutrophil/hepatocyte ratio of 20:1 , the alanine aminotransferase activity releases were 53.7 % + / - 5.4 % ( mean + / - 1 s.e. ) and 27.4 % + / - 4.8 % for normal and inflammatory hepatocytes , respectively . similarly , inflammatory hepatocytes were found to be less sensitive than normal hepatocytes to the toxic effect of purified neutrophil cathepsin g. in contrast , both types of hepatocytes exhibited the same sensitivity to h2o2 generated by a system consisting of glucose and glucose oxidase . two arguments suggested that the resistance of inflammatory hepatocytes to protease toxicity was explained by an increased production of antiproteases by these cells : ( a ) when tested against cathepsin g and porcine pancreatic elastase activities , the protease inhibitory capacity of conditioned medium from inflammatory hepatocytes was higher than that of conditioned medium from normal hepatocytes ; ( b ) conditioned medium from inflammatory hepatocytes markedly reduced the toxicity of stimulated neutrophils as that of cathepsin g. 
restoration of liver function in gunn rats without immunosuppression using transplanted microencapsulated hepatocytes . microencapsulation of cells within synthetic semipermeable membranes is a novel technique that enables the transplantation of cell cultures without the need for immunosuppression . we have previously shown that transplanted isolated encapsulated hepatocytes can provide sufficient short-term metabolic support to improve the survival of animals with galactosamine-induced fulminant hepatic failure . here we have demonstrated the feasibility of isolated encapsulated hepatocyte transplantation in providing long-term metabolic liver support in gunn rats . gunn rats have a congenital inability to conjugate bilirubin and thus exhibit lifelong hyperbilirubinemia . we studied the feasibility of isolated encapsulated hepatocyte transplantation in restoring this specific liver function . free hepatocytes , isolated from male wistar rats , were microencapsulated with collagen within a trilayered sodium alginate-poly-l-lysine-sodium alginate membrane using techniques developed in our laboratory . a total of 45 gunn rats underwent intraperitoneal transplantation with free hepatocytes ( 5 x 10 ( 7 ] , isolated encapsulated hepatocytes ( 5 x 10 ( 7 ] , control ( empty ) microcapsules or no transplant ( untreated controls ) . serum bilirubin levels were monitored daily for 10 days after transplantation , and subsequent weekly samples were obtained for up to 1 mo . microcapsules were studied by light and electron microscopy 1 mo after transplantation . during the first week after transplantation , the mean maximum reduction in serum bilirubin levels for the isolated encapsulated hepatocytes , free hepatocytes and control microcapsule transplanted groups was 45.7 % , 18.6 % and 14.3 % , respectively . for up to 1 mo thereafter the mean reduction in serum bilirubin levels in these respective groups was 34.8 % , 13.5 % and 3.3 % . 
normalization of ventilation/perfusion relationships after liver transplantation in patients with decompensated cirrhosis : evidence for a hepatopulmonary syndrome . to examine the effect of liver transplantation on the respiratory and cardiovascular functions , ventilation/perfusion relationships were determined by multiple inert gas elimination technique in six patients with end-stage liver disease 1 to 19 mo before and 2 to 6 mo after liver transplantation . cardiac output and pulmonary vascular pressures were measured after catheterization of the pulmonary artery . all patients had normal spirometry and chest x-ray films before transplantation . pao2 before transplantation was 78.8 + / - 7.4 mm hg ( range = 51.8 to 102.8 mm hg ) . all patients had perfusion of poorly ventilated lung regions ( low ventilation/perfusion relationships ) varying from 3 % to 19 % of cardiac output ( mean = 8.5 % + / - 2.4 % of cardiac output ) and two patients had intrapulmonary shunting ( 3 % and 20 % of cardiac output ) . measured and calculated pao2 agreed closely , indicating absence of pulmonary diffusion abnormality , as well as of extrapulmonary shunting . after transplantation , pao2 normalized in all patients , and both shunting and low ventilation/perfusion relationships disappeared . cardiac output decreased from 9.1 + / - 1.4 to 6.6 + / - 0.5 l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) , and the pulmonary vascular resistance increased from 0.69 + / - 0.14 to 1.64 + / - 0.43 mm hg/l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) . the systemic vascular resistance also increased ( before = 8.7 + / - 1.0 ; after = 15.3 + / - 1.1 mm hg/l/min ; p less than 0.001 ) . normalization of respiratory and cardiovascular alterations , after liver transplantation , in patients with end-stage liver disease indicates that these changes have a direct functional relationship to the diseased liver . it is hypothesized that this is part of a " hepatopulmonary syndrome , ' which in similarity to the hepatorenal syndrome disappears with improved liver function . 
preventive therapy of first gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis : results of a controlled trial comparing propranolol , endoscopic sclerotherapy and placebo . propranolol and endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices are the two approaches currently used in prophylaxis of the first gastrointestinal hemorrhage in the cirrhotic patient . one hundred twenty-six cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices and no histories of bleeding were included in the trial regardless of the gravity of the cirrhosis or the size of the esophageal varices . patients with hepatocarcinomas or other cancers , clearly impossible follow-up , previous treatment for portal hypertension or contraindication to beta-blockers were excluded . after randomization , 43 patients received propranolol twice daily at a dose reducing the heart rate by 25 % ; 42 patients were treated with intravariceal and extravariceal injections of polidocanol ; 41 control patients received vitamin k orally as placebo . the patients were seen at 3-mo intervals for 2 yr . on entry to the trial the three groups were comparable in terms of clinical and biological parameters , including size of esophageal varices ( grade i = 51 , grade ii = 54 , grade iii = 17 ) , child-pugh classification ( a = 29 , b = 61 , c = 32 ) and the origin of cirrhosis ( alcoholic in 79 % of cases ) . twenty-four patients bled ( two bled in the propranolol group , nine bled in the endoscopic sclerosis of esophageal varices group and 13 bled in the placebo group ) . actuarial estimates ( kaplan-meier ) of the time of onset of first bleeding showed that the differences were significant between propranolol and placebo ( p less than 0.004 ) and between propranolol and sclerotherapy ( p less than 0.03 ) but not between sclerotherapy and placebo . 
camp mediates il-1-induced lymphocyte penetration through endothelial monolayers . endothelial cell incubated with il-1 have been shown adhere more lymphocytes than nontreated endothelial cells . here we demonstrate that il-1 can also increase lymphocyte penetration through endothelial monolayers in vitro . il-1 induced a transient increase in the number of lymphocytes penetrated through the endothelial monolayer into a filter in a time - and dose-dependent manner . this effect could be mimicked by increasing the cytosolic camp levels in the endothelial cells either by forskolin or dibutyryl-camp . concomitantly we were able to show that il-1 increased the cytosolic camp levels in endothelial cells . an inhibitor of adenylate cyclase , ddado , decreased both the il-1-induced camp elevation and lymphocyte penetration . a protein kinase a inhibitor ha 1004 could inhibit the il-1-induced lymphocyte penetration , where as protein kinase c ( n - ( 2-guamidino-ethyl ) -5 - isoquinolinesyl foamide hydrocloride ) and calcium-calmodulin ( n - ( 6-aminohexyl ) -5 - chloro-1-naphthalensulfanamide ) inhibitors had no effect . adding dibutyryl-cgmp or calcium ionophore to the endothelial cells could not mimic il-1-induced penetration and finally il-1 did not induce pkc translocation in endothelial cells . these data support the view that il-1 acts via camp as a second messenger in regard to lymphocyte penetration through endothelial cells . the above data demonstrate that il-1-induced lymphocyte penetration through endothelial cells and that this il-1-induced signal is transduced via camp in endothelial cells . 
role of histamine in natural killer cell-mediated resistance against tumor cells . the formation of lung metastases by i.v.-injected b16 melanoma ( f1 and f10 strain ) cells in swiss albino , c57bl/6 , and balb/c mice was reduced by a single dose of histamine given 24 h before tumor cell inoculation . the antimetastatic effect of histamine was specifically mediated by histamine h2-receptors ( h2r ) : it was blocked by the h2r antagonist ranitidine and mimicked by dimaprit , a specific h2r agonist but not by an h2r-inactive structural analog of this compound , nor-dimaprit , or the h1r agonist 2-thiazolyl-ethylamide . a single dose of any of the h2r antagonists ranitidine , tiotidine , famotidine , or cimetidine drastically augmented metastasis . effects of h2r-interactive compounds on b16 metastasis required intact nk cells , as judged by the inability of histamine or ranitidine to affect b16 metastasis after nk cell depletion in vivo using antibodies to asialo-gm1 . nk-cell-mediated lysis of yac-1 lymphoma cells in vivo was enhanced by histamine and reduced by ranitidine within 4 h after inoculation of tumor cells . the antimetastatic effect of il-2 was potentiated by histamine ; in some experiments , combined treatment with a low dose of il-2 ( 6000 u/kg ) and histamine completely eliminated metastasis , whereas concomitant treatment with ranitidine abrogated antimetastatic effects of il-2 ; animals treated with ranitidine and il-2 displayed the same level of enhanced metastasis as those treated with ranitidine alone . the presented data are suggestive of an earlier unrecognized role for histamine in nk cell-mediated resistance against metastatic tumor cells . 
interferons and collagen production . the immunoregulatory , antiviral , and antiproliferative agents known as the interferons have profound effects on collagen synthesis . interferons alpha , beta , and gamma suppress collagen synthesis by dermal fibroblasts . in addition , interferon gamma ( ifn-gamma ) inhibits the constitutively increased collagen synthesis characteristic of fibroblasts derived from lesions of patients with scleroderma . ifn-gamma also inhibits collagen synthesis by myofibroblasts and synovial fibroblast-like cells . inhibition of collagen synthesis by ifn-gamma is associated with a coordinate inhibition of transcription for types i and iii collagen . in addition , ifn-gamma suppresses levels of procollagen mrna and type ii collagen synthesis in human articular chondrocytes . in vivo studies in mice have demonstrated that ifn-gamma inhibits the collagen synthesis associated with the fibrotic response to an implanted foreign body , bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis , and the healing response to cutaneous thermal burns . in the latter case , while collagen content of the wound scar was decreased , hyaluronic acid was increased in mice receiving ifn-gamma compared to controls . this is in accord with in vitro studies showing that , while interferons alpha and beta decrease production of glycosaminoglycans , ifn-gamma increases production of glycosaminoglycans . of interest , acute inflammation at sites of thermal injury , or when elicited by proinflammatory agents in separate experiments , also was suppressed in mice treated with ifn-gamma . the means by which ifn-gamma inhibits collagen synthesis involves transcriptional regulation . there is a single report that interferon alpha can decrease the size of a keloid of recent onset in a human patient . because the interferons can inhibit collagen synthesis in vivo , further studies may be warranted to evaluate the usefulness of these agents in the treatment of disease states characterized by abnormal fibrotic responses as well as their potential for altering the healing response associated with particular therapeutic interventions . 
pneumococcal pneumonia in a rat model of cirrhosis : effects of cirrhosis on pulmonary defense mechanisms against streptococcus pneumoniae . to study alterations in host defense mechanisms that enhance pneumococcal virulence , a model of streptococcus pneumoniae pneumonia was developed in cirrhotic rats . cirrhosis , with or without ascites , was produced in rats by intragastric administration of carbon tetrachloride ( ccl4 ) . histopathologic and laboratory studies demonstrated that ccl4-induced cirrhosis was similar to alcoholic cirrhosis in humans . cirrhotic rats were more susceptible to type 3 pneumococcal pneumonia induced by intratracheal challenge than controls , and the presence of ascites was associated with the lowest ld50 . more cirrhotic rats with ascites had bacteremia and elevated levels of circulating capsular antigen after challenge compared with cirrhotic rats without ascites or controls . pulmonary clearance of pneumococci was markedly reduced in rats with cirrhosis and ascites and was associated with reduced serum complement levels . this model may be useful in further studies of the pathogenesis and therapy of pneumococcal infections in the compromised host . 
the human antibody response to streptococcal c5a peptidase . an elisa was developed to measure antibody , both igg and iga , against the streptococcal c5a peptidase ( scp ) , in human sera and saliva . generally , sera and saliva from young , uninfected children lacked antibody to scp . in contrast , most sera and saliva specimens from healthy adults had measurable levels of anti-scp igg and scp-specific secretory iga ( anti-scp siga ) . paired acute and convalescent sera from patients with streptococcal pharyngitis possessed significantly higher levels of anti-scp igg than did sera from healthy individuals . sera containing high concentrations of anti-scp immunoglobulin were capable of neutralizing scp activity . a survey of healthy adults and children also showed that the latter were significantly less likely to have anti-scp siga in their saliva . detection of this antibody in greater than 90 % of the saliva specimens obtained from children who had recently experienced streptococcal pharyngitis demonstrated that children can produce a secretory response . this is thought to be the first report of a secretory iga response in humans to a somatic antigen of streptococcus pyogenes . 
mediastinitis following coronary artery bypass surgery : a 3-year review . twenty cases of mediastinitis after coronary artery bypass graft operations in 1985-1987 were reviewed to determine risk factors . two distinct clusters with a methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ) strain occurred in 1986 . one resident was exposed to six cases but to only 5 of 24 controls ( p less than .008 ) . cultures of his nares in january and november 1986 revealed the same mrsa strain as that of the cases . an attempt to eradicate the resident 's nasal carriage of mrsa in january 1986 failed ; eradication of his carrier state was achieved only after treatment with mupirocin . in a case-control study examining patients exposed to the resident , a prolonged duration of surgery ( p less than .05 ) and a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl ( p less than .009 ) were associated with mediastinitis with this mrsa . for the other 14 mediastinitis patients , who were not exposed to the resident , a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl was also a risk factor ( 8/14 cases vs. 8/43 controls , p less than .009 ) . thus , this study suggests that it is important to follow mrsa disseminators and to recognize that preoperative serum albumin levels are a risk factor for mediastinitis . 
characterization of herpes simplex virus type 2 latency-associated transcription in human sacral ganglia and in cell culture . the ability of herpes simplex virus type 2 ( hsv-2 ) to establish latency in and reactivate from sacral dorsal root sensory ganglia is the basis for recurrent genital herpes . the expression of hsv-2 genes in latently infected human sacral ganglia was investigated by in situ hybridization . hybridizations with a probe from the long repeat region of hsv-2 revealed strong nuclear signals overlying neurons in sacral ganglia from five of nine individuals . the rna detected overlaps with the transcript for infected cell protein o but in the opposite , or " anti-sense , " orientation . these observations mimic those made previously with hsv-1 in human trigeminal ganglia and confirm the recent findings during latency in hsv-2-infected mice and guinea pigs . northern hybridization of rna from infected vero cells showed that an hsv-2 latency-associated transcript was similar in size to the larger ( 1.85 kb ) latency transcript of hsv-1 . thus , hsv-1 and hsv-2 latency in human sensory ganglia are similar , if not identical , in terms of their cellular localization and pattern of transcription . 
exacerbation of bacterial toxicity to infant ferrets by influenza virus : possible role in sudden infant death syndrome [ published erratum appears in j infect dis 1991 jul ; 164 ( 1 ) :232 ] of several toxins examined , only staphylococcal alpha and gamma toxin , endotoxin , and diphtheria toxins were lethal for 5-day-old ferrets . their toxicities were enhanced in animals infected at 1 day old with influenza virus , from 3-fold with staphylococcal gamma toxin through 14-fold for staphylococcal alpha toxin , 84-fold for endotoxin , and 219-fold for diphtheria toxin . no increased viral replication occurred in any tissue ; thus the effects of the toxins were exacerbated by the infection , not vice versa . neonates died suddenly without clinical symptoms as in human babies dying from the sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) . pathologic examination showed inflammation in the upper respiratory tract , lung edema and collapse , and early bronchopneumonia in the toxin - and influenza virus-treated animals but not in those treated with toxin or virus alone . thus , bacterial toxins could play a role in sids , this being more likely with a concomitant influenza virus infection . 
detection of anti-epstein-barr virus trans-activator ( zebra ) antibodies in sera from patients with human immunodeficiency virus . patients with aids and aids-related complex often show symptoms of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) reactivation . several ebv-encoded trans-acting factors activate the ebv lytic cycle , and one , zebra ( bamhi z ebv replication activator ; also called eb1 ) , switches ebv from its latent to productive cycle . indirect immunofluorescence studies were done using human cells transfected with a recombinant dna-harboring cdna sequence spanning bzlf1 ( bamhi z left frame 1 ) that was inserted downstream of the adenovirus major late promoter . igg anti-zebra antibodies were detected in a high proportion of asymptomatic hiv carriers and in aids patients but were absent in healthy control individuals . the presence of anti-zebra antibodies in the sera of hiv-positive patients favors the hypothesis that ebv reactivates in such subjects . this finding may be of practical importance in the prognostication of aids development . 
occlusion of an " accessory " distal anterior cerebral artery during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms . report of two cases . two cases are presented in which clip occlusion of a third distal anterior cerebral artery segment occurred during treatment of anterior communicating artery aneurysms . case histories , angiograms , operative descriptions , and postmortem findings are presented . the incidence of this anomalous vessel is reviewed . preoperative and intraoperative vigilance in determining the presence of this anomaly prior to clip placement is emphasized . 
reduced platelet aggregability and thromboxane release after rebleeding in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage . serial blood samples were obtained from 80 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) to study adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation and associated thromboxane b2 release . the goal of the investigation was to detect whether reduced platelet function is involved in rebleeds . seventeen patients ( 21 % ) suffered a rebleed , six of those experiencing their first rebleed within 24 hours after sah . therefore , most platelet function studies were performed after rebleeds . thromboxane release was lower in patients with rebleeds than in the others , both before and after rebleeding , although statistical significance was reached only in samples collected after rebleeds . patients rebleeding within 24 hours after sah had lower platelet aggregability ( p = 0.037 ) than patients without a rebleed in the samples taken within 3 days after sah . the results suggest that reduced platelet aggregability and thromboxane release are involved in rebleeds following primary sah . 
long-term outcome following anterior cerebral artery ligation for ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysms . the long-term prognosis ( 15 years ) was determined for 17 patients who had undergone anterior cerebral artery ( aca ) ligation as the sole treatment for an anterior communicating artery aneurysm . the number of early and late rebleeds was lower than expected from previously ruptured aneurysms . late ischemia was not a major complication while late postoperative epilepsy occurred in 19 % of survivors . in a review of previously published series , aca ligation appears to have significantly reduced the rates of both early and late rebleeding . this study helps to define the late results of " conservative " operations for ruptured aneurysms . 
long-term effects of nimodipine on cerebral infarcts and outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery . a total of 213 patients with verified aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) of grades i to iii ( hunt and hess classification ) were enrolled in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine the effect of intravenous nimodipine on delayed ischemic deterioration and computerized tomography ( ct ) - visualized infarcts after sah and surgery . the administration of the drug or matching placebo was started immediately after the radiological diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm had been made . of the 213 patients enrolled in the study , 58 were operated on early ( within 72 hours after the bleed : days 0 to 3 ) , 69 were operated on subacutely ( between days 4 and 7 ) , and 74 had late surgery ( on day 8 or later ) . eleven patients died before surgery was undertaken and one was not operated on . a follow-up examination with ct scanning , performed 1 to 3 years after the sah ( mean 1.4 years ) , revealed no significant differences in the overall outcome between the groups . however , nimodipine treatment was associated with a significantly lower incidence of deaths caused by delayed cerebral ischemia ( p = 0.01 ) and significantly lower occurrence of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in the whole population ( p = 0.05 ) , especially in patients without an associated intracerebral hemorrhage on admission ct scan ( p = 0.03 ) . 
treatment of severe intraventricular hemorrhage by intraventricular infusion of urokinase . six patients with severe intraventricular hemorrhage were treated with direct intraventricular infusion of urokinase . in each case , hemorrhage extended into all ventricular chambers , and a cast formation and expansion of the third and fourth ventricles were found . immediately after the therapy was started ( within 7 days from onset of symptoms ) , reduction of intraventricular hematoma volume was observed on computerized tomography . on average , both the third and fourth ventricles became clear on the third day after hemorrhage ; there was one exception , a case of ruptured aneurysm . five of the six patients showed excellent or good outcome , although two developed delayed hydrocephalus . no infection or rebleeding was observed . the outcome in a retrospectively studied group of five patients not treated with urokinase is also reported . the authors conclude that this relatively easy method of treatment will greatly improve the prognosis of severe intraventricular hemorrhage . 
supplemental emergent chest computed tomography in the management of blunt torso trauma . the efficacy of conventional chest x-ray ( cxr ) in comparison to chest computed tomography ( cct ) in acutely injured blunt trauma patients was examined . over a 21-month period , 50 patients underwent cxr and cct according to a standard protocol , and their films and records were reviewed retrospectively . hemo - and/or pneumothorax ( hptx ) was noted in 12 patients ( five by cxr , 12 by cct ) . pulmonary contusion ( pc ) was identified in ten patients ( four by cxr , ten by cct ) . three additional false positive pc were diagnosed by cxr . therapy changes based upon cct findings occurred in seven of seven hptx and five of six pc . the two imaging techniques were complementary in detecting fractures . atelectasis was a common cct finding ( 58 % incidence ) . chest x-ray is less sensitive than chest computed tomography in the detection of hptx ( 42 % vs. 100 % ) and pc ( 40 % vs. 100 % ) . emergent chest computed tomography is recommended in stable patients with : 1 ) blunt high-energy torso trauma , 2 ) " cross-body " injury pattern , and/or 3 ) a mechanism of injury suggestive of chest trauma . 
continuous arteriovenous rewarming : experimental results and thermodynamic model simulation of treatment for hypothermia . we evaluated a technique for treating hypothermia that uses extracorporeal circulation but does not require heparin or pump assistance . hypothermia to 29.5 degrees c was induced in eight anesthetized dogs , and thermistors placed in the pulmonary artery , liver , bladder , esophagus , rectum , muscle , and skin . four experimental animals were rewarmed by creating a fistula which connected arterial and venous femoral lines to an interposed counter-current heat exchanger . external rewarming was used in four controls . bleeding time ( bt ) , coagulation profile ( pt , ptt , tt ) , and cardiac output ( co ) were measured during rewarming . core temperature ( t ) rose significantly faster with cavr ( 0.00001 ) . average time to rewarming was 45 min , vs. 4 hrs in controls . haptoglobin , platelet , fibrinogen , and fibrin split product levels were unaffected . continuous arteriovenous rewarming ( cavr ) improved t , co , bt , and coagulation profile faster than any method yet reported not requiring heparin or cardiac bypass . the application of cavr in post-traumatic hypothermia warrants further investigation . 
penetrating iliac vascular injuries : recent experience with 233 consecutive patients . during a recent 11-year period , 233 consecutive patients with 358 penetrating iliac vascular injuries were treated at our institution . injuries of the common and external iliac arteries were most often repaired with lateral suture ( 31 % ) although several other techniques were also employed . lateral suture and ligation were used with nearly equal frequency in the management of venous injuries . the hospital mortality rate for the series was 28 % , and 56/66 deaths ( 85 % ) were due to exsanguination or shock . one patient , initially treated with an end-to-end anastomosis of the iliac artery , died a year after discharge from a ruptured false aneurysm . two patients treated with lateral suture of venous injuries died of pulmonary embolism . arterial complications occurred in 15 % of patients with arterial injuries and three patients required amputation . no graft infections occurred in 16 patients treated with ptfe interpositions , including four with associated colorectal injuries . venous complications occurred in 12 % of patients with venous injuries , and most were noted in those treated with ligation . four patients treated by venous ligation developed chronic venous insufficiency . the prevention of death from exsanguination is the greatest problem in the management of patients with iliac vascular injuries . although some late deaths and many complications may be related to the technique of vascular repair , circumstances often prohibit alternative methods . despite two deaths from pulmonary embolism , insufficient data exist to condemn lateral suture of venous injuries . 
the management of flail chest injury : factors affecting outcome . the records of 57 patients presenting with flail chest injury from 1981 through 1987 were reviewed to determine factors affecting morbidity and mortality . fifteen patients ( 26 % ) had 8 + rib fractures with a unilateral flail and seven ( 12 % ) had multiple rib fractures with a bilateral flail . thirty-two ( 56 % ) had moderate-severe pulmonary contusions and 44 ( 77 % ) required chest tubes for hemo-pneumothorax . ventilatory assistance was used in 36 ( 63 % ) . the major factors determining the need for ventilatory assistance were : an iss greater than or equal to 23 , blood transfusions in the first 24 hours , moderate-severe associated injuries ( fractures , head injuries or truncal organs requiring operation ) , and shock on admission ( p less than 0.001 ) . an adverse outcome occurred in 15 ( 28 % ) ; nine required ventilatory assistance greater than or equal to 14 days and six died of sepsis with pneumonia . the main factors associated with an adverse outcome were : an iss greater than or equal to 31 ( p less than 0.001 ) , moderate-severe associated injuries ( p less than 0.001 ) , and blood transfusions ( p less than 0.005 ) . although the primary determinants of an adverse outcome were the associated injuries and blood loss , a bilateral flail ( p less than 0.01 ) and age greater than or equal to 50 years ( p less than 0.02 ) were contributing factors . 
the morbidity and financial impact of colostomy closure in trauma patients . during a 10-year period , 87 patients who had undergone elective colostomy closure at bellevue hospital were retrospectively reviewed in order to evaluate the morbidity of colostomy closure after traumatic injury and its financial impact . sixty-two per cent of the colostomies were in the left colon and 38 % were right sided . the interval from the original injury to colostomy takedown varied from 20 to 465 days , with a mean of 144 days . the mean postoperative hospital stay for the entire group was 15.13 days at a cost of $ 13,995 . there were no deaths and no anastomotic leaks in the entire series , but a morbidity rate of 25 % ensued . small bowel obstruction was the most frequent significant complication , occurring in ten patients ( 11.5 % ) and resulting in a prolongation of hospital stay by 7 days at an additional cost of $ 6,500 per patient . one additional patient developed a subphrenic abscess which required operative drainage , necessitating an additional 24 days in the hospital at an increased cost of $ 22,200 . other complications which did not prolong hospital stay included eight superficial wound infections , one transient respiratory failure , and two patients who returned at a later date with incisional hernias at the stoma site . the 25 % morbidity encountered in this series suggests that colostomy closure is not a low-morbidity procedure and should be considered as an important factor favoring primary repair . coupled with the significant financial impact of both colostomy formation and takedown , ample justification exists for greater efforts in avoiding colostomy formation whenever feasible . 
the effect of alcohol in isolated blunt splenic trauma . the effect of alcohol on trauma patients is controversial , with numerous authors citing no difference in mortality in acutely intoxicated patients . the purpose of our study was to retrospectively investigate the effect of alcohol in adult patients with isolated blunt splenic injury . from 1980 through 1989 , 47 adult patients with splenic trauma as the only major injury were admitted to the trauma service . there were 37 males and ten females with a mean age of 29 years ( range , 15 to 61 ) . motor vehicle accidents were responsible for 44 ( 94 % ) of the injuries . group 1 consisted of 24 patients with a mean blood alcohol level of 185 mg/dl ( range , 15 to 380 ) . in group 2 there were 23 patients without detectable blood alcohol . there were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in age , abbreviated injury severity score , initial hematocrit , and grade of splenic injury . hypotension was present in 13 patients ( 55 % ) in group 1 versus six patients ( 26 % ) in group 2 ( p less than 0.05 ) . significant abnormalities in clotting studies were present on admission in six patients ( 25 % ) in the alcohol-detected group versus one in the other group ( p less than 0.05 ) . blood transfusion requirements in the first 24 hours were significantly greater in group 1 ( mean , 3.9 units ) versus group 2 ( mean , 0.5 units ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . if alcohol was present , there was much less chance for splenic conservation , as 18 patients ( 75 % ) underwent splenectomy versus seven patients ( 30 % ) in the nonalcohol group ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was one death and this occurred in a patient acutely intoxicated who suffered a cerebral infarct . 
central venous oxygen saturation : a useful clinical tool in trauma patients . an accurate method of estimating acute blood loss is essential in the evaluation of injured patients . central venous oxygen ( cvo2 ) saturation has been shown to be a sensitive and reliable correlate of blood loss in an animal model but its clinical validity is unproven . we evaluated 26 consecutive patients with an injury mechanism suggesting blood loss but who were deemed stable after initial evaluation . vital signs ( pulse , blood pressure , pulse pressure , urine output , cvp ) and cvo2 saturation were serially measured . blood loss was estimated by direct intracavitary collection or serial hematocrits and acute transfusion requirements . despite stable vital signs , ten patients ( 39 % ) had cvo2 saturations under 65 % . these patients had more serious injuries , significantly larger estimated blood losses , and required more transfusions than those patients with cvo2 saturation greater than 65 % . linear regression analysis demonstrated the superiority of cvo2 saturation to predict blood loss with a p value less than 0.005 relative to any of the normally followed parameters . cvo2 saturation is a reliable and sensitive method for detecting blood loss . it is a useful tool in the evaluation of acutely injured patients . 
carotid-esophageal fistula following a penetrating neck injury : case report . carotid arterial injuries frequently are associated with injuries to adjacent structure of the neck , particularly the esophagus and trachea . complications from these repairs are common and fistula formation is herein described between the carotid artery and esophageal repair . 
delayed , exsanguinating pelvic hemorrhage after blunt trauma without bony fracture : case report . we present a case of a young man who developed a delayed , life-threatening hemorrhage after blunt pelvic trauma . he did not have a bony fracture . successful management of the hemorrhage with angiographic embolization and the complex subsequent course are discussed . 
intramyocardial shotgun pellets diagnosed on initial emergency room chest x-ray : case report . the diagnosis of retained intracardiac missile is usually made at thoracotomy or fluoroscopy . close inspection of plain chest x-rays may reveal blurring of radiopaque objects that are moving with the beating heart . in a gunshot wound victim who is initially stable , observation of this phenomenon should prompt a very high index of suspicion for cardiac injury . invasive hemodynamic monitoring is indicated , and thoracotomy should be performed if penetrating cardiac injury is confirmed . 
hilger facial nerve stimulator : a 25-year update . percutaneous nerve excitability testing using the hilger facial nerve stimulator was introduced about 25 years ago . the test is reliable , easy to use , and inexpensive ; it continues to be the most frequently used method for predicting prognosis of facial nerve disorders . between 1966 and 1974 , we recorded 10,243 nerve excitability tests on 865 patients with a mean of 3.29 tests for each peripheral branch and 3.43 for the trunk . using a multiple regression model , we determined the effect on nerve stimulation values of age , sex , race , diabetes , hypertension , partial or complete clinical paralysis , diagnosis of herpes zoster , year of testing , and eventual facial paralysis recovery profile . we discuss statistical reliability , provide a table of interpretive results , and offer " tips and traps " invaluable to the practitioner . a prospective study of 25 patients with residual facial paralysis was evaluated by two separate otolaryngologists to determine intertester reliability . 
sternocleidomastoid muscle transfer and superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication in the prevention of frey 's syndrome parotidectomy may be associated with a significant depression in the retromandibular region and a significant incidence of gustatory sweating ( frey 's syndrome ) . superiorly and inferiorly based sternocleidomastoid flaps and posterior plication of the superficial musculoaponeurotic system were evaluated for their ability to ameliorate both consequences . sixteen patients with sternocleidomastoid flaps and 16 patients with superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication were compared to a control group of 104 patients . the incidence of frey 's syndrome was 47.1 % in the control group , 12.5 % ( p = 0.025 ) in the sternocleidomastoid flap group , and 0 % ( p = 0.005 ) in the superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication group . the surgical techniques are described . the prevalence of frey 's syndrome is discussed with respect to age , sex , radiation therapy , and the type of parotidectomy performed . the indications and contraindications of the three surgical techniques are described . 
facial pain . this article presents differential diagnosis and treatment of facial pain . facial pain is classified in accordance with the recent work of the headache classification committee of the international headache society . the two major divisions are facial pain associated with disorders of the head and neck , including their parts , and disorders of cranial nerves , including their central connections . special attention is paid to the controversial topics of temporomandibular joint dysfunction and atypical facial pain . 
a gene in the human major histocompatibility complex class ii region controlling the class i antigen presentation pathway major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class i molecules export peptides to the cell surface for surveillance by cytotoxic t lymphocytes . intracellular peptide binding is critical for the proper assembly and transport of class i molecules . this mechanism is impaired as a result of a non-functional peptide supply factor gene ( psf ) in several human mutant cell lines with genomic lesions in the mhc . we have now identified psf in the mhc class ii region by deletion mapping in mutants and chromosome-walking . psf is homologous to mammalian and bacterial atp-dependent transport proteins , suggesting that it operates in the intracellular transport of peptides . 
development of a traumatic intracranial hematoma after a " minor " head injury . we have analyzed features of patients who had what appeared initially to be a minor head injury but who developed an acute traumatic intracranial hematoma . over a 10-year period , 183 patients who were able to open their eyes spontaneously , were oriented to person , place , and time , and who obeyed commands when they were first seen at a hospital subsequently underwent operation for an acute intracranial hematoma . the hematoma was extradural in 54 % of these patients . a history of altered consciousness or symptoms of headache and vomiting were present in 61 % of the patients ; 33 % had a focal neurological deficit , and 43 % had either focal deficit or signs of a basal skull fracture . a skull fracture was shown radiologically in 60 % of patients , including 52 % of those not clinically suspected of having an intracranial lesion . six months after injury , 77 % of the patients had made a moderate or good recovery . the possibility that a patient who has recently sustained a head injury might develop an acute intracranial hematoma can never be completely discounted , even when there are no abnormal clinical signs , and a skull x-ray retains a useful place in the investigation of selected patients with a minor head injury . 
experimental intracerebral hemorrhage : early removal of a spontaneous mass lesion improves late outcome . the purpose of the present study was to determine whether early removal of an experimental intracerebral mass altered cerebral blood flow , brain water content , neuropathological findings , or neurological function 24 hours later . in three experimental series , a 50-microliter balloon was inflated within the right caudate nucleus in rats . at 24 hours after inflation , we studied cerebral blood flow by quantitative autoradiography , brain specific gravity , and qualitative histopathology by light microscopy . the animals were also assessed using a simple neurological deficit scale . in each series , half of the animals had the balloon inflated for 10 minutes ( group 1 ) , and half had the balloon inflated permanently ( group 2 ) . after transient inflation , there were surprisingly small differences in the blood flow between the two cerebral hemispheres at 24 hours . by contrast , in animals with permanent inflation , several indices of blood flow were significantly worse in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the balloon : the mean and median blood flow levels in the caudate nucleus ; the mean blood flow in the cerebral cortex ; and the area of cortex with ischemic levels of blood flow . the specific gravity was reduced in areas surrounding the site of balloon insertion after either transient or permanent inflation , and there was evidence of ischemic cell damage in all animals studied . these changes were more severe after permanent inflation , but the differences were not significant . neurological outcome was significantly better after transient as compared with permanent inflation . the present findings contradict previous results and suggest that early removal of an intracerebral mass may have subsequent benefits . 
the children 's orientation and amnesia test : relationship to severity of acute head injury and to recovery of memory . the children 's orientation and amnesia test ( coat ) was developed to assess cognition serially during the early stage of recovery from traumatic brain injury in children and adolescents . the norms for the coat , which is composed of 16 items evaluating general orientation , temporal orientation , and memory , were defined from data obtained from 146 children aged 3 to 15 years . in 37 patients with head injuries , the duration of posttraumatic amnesia , as indicated by the number of days coat scores were in the impaired range , was significantly related to both verbal and nonverbal memory at the baseline and 6 and 12 months after injury . coat scores were a better predictor of verbal and nonverbal memory performance than the glasgow coma scale score at 6 and 12 months after the injury . this study shows that the coat has adequate reliability and validity as a measure of the duration of posttraumatic amnesia in children and adolescents . 
surgical outcome in 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the iran-iraq war . variables important in predicting the final postsurgical outcome of 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the iran-iraq war were evaluated over a 99-month period . the type of projectile , site of injury , and presence or absence of foreign material did not seem to have a significant effect on the final outcome . of the patients with a perforating type of injury , 48.8 % had a poor surgical outcome as compared with 19.9 % with a penetrating type and 15.6 % with a tangential type . this difference is statistically significant ( chi 2 = 14.7 and 17.1 , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) . the most important factor in predicting overall outcome was the glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) score at the time of admission . mortality and morbidity contributing to a poor surgical outcome were noted in only 6 % of patients with a gcs score at admission of 13 to 15 , in 24.6 % of those with a gcs score of 9 to 12 , in 57 % of those with a gcs score of 6 to 8 , and in 65 % of those with a gcs score of 3 to 5 . of the 71 patients who died , 75 % had a score of 3 to 8 . perforating projectiles or those traversing two or more dural compartments were statistically significant in contributing to mortality and morbidity ( chi 2 = 17.2 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the incidence of focal neurological deficit was 100 , 90.6 , 88 , and 52.2 % in patients with gcs scores of 3 to 5 , 6 to 8 , 9 to 12 , and 13 to 15 , respectively . the two best predictors of mortality in this group of patients were a low gcs score and infection . 
median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials and the glasgow coma scale as predictors of outcome in comatose patients with head injuries . median nerve somatosensory evoked potential ( ssep ) grades and glasgow coma scale ( gsc ) scores were obtained from 51 patients with head injuries within 1 week after the injury to determine the relationship of these scores , both individually and combined , to outcome scores obtained more than 6 months after the injury . ssep grading was based on the presence or absence of the cortical evoked potential , the amplitude of the early cortically generated p22 wave form , and the conduction time through the brain ( p/n13-n 20 interpeak latency ) . ssep responses from both sides of the brain were combined and graded from 1 to 6 . the gcs was graded without the verbal component ( maximum score , 10 ) , because all patients were intubated . all patients were unresponsive to commands . median ssep grades correlated better with glasgow outcome scale and barthel index scores ( r = 0.57 and 0.64 , respectively ; p less than 0.00001 ) than gcs scores did ( r = 0.35 and 0.37 , respectively , p less than 0.00001 ) , and combining ssep grades and gcs scores did not improve the predictive power of the model ( r = 0.57 and 0.64 , respectively ; p less than 0.00001 ) . all ssep grade 1 patients ( n = 13 ) either died or remained in a vegetative state . in contrast , all ssep grade 6 patients ( n = 7 ) had a moderate disability or good recovery . this study demonstrates the prognostic value of early quantitative median nerve ssep grading for patients with head injuries who are unresponsive to commands within 1 week after the injury . 
sustained increased cerebral blood flow with prophylactic hypertensive hypervolemic hemodilution ( " triple-h " therapy ) after subarachnoid hemorrhage . delayed cerebral ischemia is the major cause of death and disability in patients who initially survive an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) . in the present study , a protocol for prophylactic hypertensive hypervolemic hemodilution ( " triple-h " therapy ) was utilized in the treatment of sah , and the response of cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) was evaluated . serial cbf measurements , f1 and cbf15 , were performed using the xenon-133 inhalation technique to maximize therapy . surgery within 24 hours of subarachnoid hemorrhage was preferred . in 43 patients with sah , mean hemoglobin and hematocrit were lowered 3.0 + / - 0.3 g/dl and 8.9 + / - 0.5 % , respectively , over the first 24 hours . mean f1 and mean cbf15 over the same period increased 34.2 + / - 5.8 % and 21.2 + / - 3.6 % , respectively . the maximum mean increase in cbf was 47.2 + / - 4.7 % for f1 and 30.1 + / - 3.2 % for cbf15 . cerebral blood flow remained elevated during the 21 days after sah , irrespective of neurological grade on admission , age , sex , or angiographic arterial narrowing . this is the first report of a consistent method for establishing sustained improvement in cbf after sah . all patients managed in total compliance with the protocol remained neurologically stable or improved . two patients developed delayed ischemia and infarction because of the inability to sustain protocol requirements . thirty-six of the 43 patients ( 84 % ) were discharged capable of an independent lifestyle . triple-h therapy is a safe and effective modality for elevating and sustaining cbf after sah . in combination with early aneurysm surgery , it can minimize delayed cerebral ischemia and lead to an improved overall outcome . 
hemorrhagic pituitary adenomas : clinicopathological features and surgical treatment . forty-five ( 9.9 % ) of 453 pituitary adenomas operated on between january 1973 and november 1988 demonstrated hemorrhagic changes at surgery : 24 had a blood collection , 12 had a blood collection associated with hemorrhagic necrosis , and 9 had hemorrhagic necrosis . thirteen patients ( 28.9 % ) experienced the acute symptoms of pituitary apoplexy , whereas another 32 had an " asymptomatic " hemorrhage , that is , the clinical course was comparable to an uncomplicated adenoma . nineteen tumors ( 42.2 % ) showed marked suprasellar extension , 8 ( 17.8 % ) showed moderate extension , and 11 ( 24.5 % ) showed slight extension ; another 2 ( 4.4 % ) were laterosellar and 5 ( 11.1 % ) were intrasellar . invasive behavior was present in 32 cases ( 71.1 % ) and this may suggest another hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of tumoral hemorrhage . the incidence of hemorrhagic complications in invasive adenomas with marked suprasellar extension was particularly impressive ; therefore , we do not suggest preoperative bromocriptine treatment in this type of tumor . two of 14 patients operated on by the transcranial route died after surgery , whereas there was no operative mortality in the 31 patients operated on by the transsphenoidal route . it proved advantageous to operate as early as possible , even during the acute phase of pituitary apoplexy . the transsphenoidal approach gave the best results , but to achieve satisfactory late results multidisciplinary treatment was necessary , namely , postoperative radiotherapy in 23 patients , bromocriptine in 12 , and endocrine replacement therapy in almost all . in an average follow-up period of 6.2 years , 5 ( 11.1 % ) symptomatic recurrences were observed . 
preoperative superselective arteriolar embolization : a new approach to enhance resectability of spinal tumors . the extent of surgical resection of spinal tumors is frequently limited by blood loss and technical difficulty associated with the vascularity of the tumors . we report here the use of superselective percutaneous arterial embolization to reduce the rate of blood loss at the time of surgical resection and enhance resectability . the types of tumors treated were metastatic renal carcinoma , metastatic thyroid carcinoma , metastatic melanoma , and giant cell tumor of the sacrum . two of the patients required repeated embolization and surgery for recurrent symptoms . the estimated blood loss in seven of nine procedures performed on the six patients ranged from 300 to 800 ml , after which no transfusion was required . in two procedures , extensive resection of very large tumors resulted in larger losses of blood , and postoperative transfusion was necessary . no significant complications of embolization or surgery occurred . a key factor in our embolization technique is the use of microfibrillar collagen , which allows occlusion of tumor vessels as small as 20 microns and may prevent reconstitution of the embolized vessels by collateral flow . we conclude that preoperative arterial embolization enhances the resectability of a variety of spinal tumors by reducing intraoperative blood loss . this may provide an additional benefit by reducing the risk related to postoperative transfusion . by permitting a more aggressive surgical approach , the use of preoperative embolization also has the potential to improve outcome in patients with spinal tumors . 
antimigraine treatment for slit ventricle syndrome . slit ventricle syndrome is characterized by chronic or recurring headaches associated with subnormal ventricular volume in patients who have undergone shunt treatment for hydrocephalus . there appear to be at least three pathophysiological mechanisms that cause this syndrome : 1 ) intermittent shunt malfunction ; 2 ) intracranial hypotension ; and 3 ) paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure in the presence of normal shunt function . to treat seven patients with slit ventricle syndrome caused by paroxysms of elevated intracranial pressure , we successfully used antimigraine therapy rather than standard calvarial expansion procedures . none of these patients has required shunt revision or calvarial expansion during a mean follow-up period of 2 years . the symptoms of slit ventricle syndrome may be a form of " acquired " migraine in shunt patients . we suggest that , in clinically stable patients with normal shunt function , treatment against migraine may stabilize symptoms resulting from paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure . such treatment may prevent unnecessary shunt revisions and/or calvarial expansion procedures . 
carotid-cavernous sinus fistula associated with a primitive trigeminal artery . carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas are not rare , but they have never been reported in association with persistent primitive trigeminal artery . we recently encountered such a case . the jaeger-hamby procedure was employed , with mandatory occlusion of the primitive trigeminal artery . 
persistent primitive trigeminal artery-cavernous sinus fistulas : report of two cases . two cases of persistent primitive trigeminal artery-cavernous sinus fistulas are presented . in one case , the fistula was treated by using a two-balloon tandem technique . this method was accomplished by introducing , inflating , and detaching a silicone balloon into the trigeminal artery , thus preserving the carotid and basilar blood flow . an unusual case of a similar fistula with only contralateral exophthalmos is also reported . the relationship between this type of fistula and the presence of aneurysms on the persistent primitive trigeminal artery and the relationship with traumatic events are discussed . 
a detachable balloon procedure for a traumatic internal carotid-internal jugular fistula : report of a case a case of a traumatic fistula between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein is reported . the fistula was treated by detachable balloon occlusion and clipping of the internal carotid artery . 
an intracranial mass lesion in systemic xanthogranulomatosis : case report . the authors describe a 42-year-old woman with systemic xanthogranulomatosis and bilateral intraorbital tumors , who subsequently developed multiple lesions of the intracranial dura mater , spinal cord , retroperitoneum , pericardium , and mediastinum . systemic xanthogranulomatosis is histologically similar to systemic weber-christian disease , except for the absence of subcutaneous panniculitis . immunohistochemical studies suggest that this clinical entity can be differentiated from histiocytosis x , because foamy cells in systemic xanthogranulomatosis demonstrate macrophages but not t-zone histiocyte markers . differentiation of this disease from other intracranial xanthogranulomas and treatment are discussed . 
fine surface structure of an intraspinal neurenteric cyst : a scanning and transmission electron microscopy study . the case of an 11-year-old boy with an intraspinal neurenteric cyst , which recurred 8 years and 3 months after surgery , is presented . scanning and transmission electron microscopy of the cyst epithelium revealed marked resemblance to that of the respiratory tract , despite the presence of numerous goblet cells mimicking intestine on light microscopy study . detailed ultrastructural findings are described . 
injuries of the external ear . ear injuries occur in people of all ages but predominate in active people such as wrestlers , boxers , and bike riders . the types and extent of injury are a function of the force causing the injury . shearing forces of moderate intensity cause hematoma formation , whereas greater force causes lacerations or even amputation . sharp objects cause lacerations determined by the force , direction , and point of impact . the high ratio of surface area to mass makes the auricle vulnerable to extremes of temperature . people participating in high-risk activities should wear protective headgear . the goal of treatment is to restore the normal contours while preventing infection . hematoma results in disfigurement by organization or chondritis . evacuation and pressure dressings using sterile technique correct the condition . second-degree burns are treated by regular cleansing and application of topical antimicrobials . deeper burns require debridement , biologic dressings , or burying the cartilage subcutaneously for later reconstruction . simple lacerations are closed under aseptic technique using either skin-to-skin sutures only or sutures of the skin combined with intercartilage sutures . extensive and complex lacerations require meticulous care to match all fragments and prevent infection or loss of tissue . bare cartilage must be covered with vascularized tissue . the treatment of total amputation is controversial . some advocate reattachment as a composite graft using intravenous low molecular weight dextrans and heparin as adjuvants . mladick dermabrades the amputated pinna , reattaches it with sutures , and then slips it into a pocket of elevated postauricular skin for 2 weeks . others urge microvascular reanastomosis of the small nutrient vessels . brent and byrd separate the cartilage from its overlying skin and envelope it first with vascularized temporoparietal fascia and then a split-thickness skin graft . chondritis is the most feared complication of injury or surgery of the pinna . it is an aggressive process , and prompt removal of pus and necrotic cartilage is required . exteriorization and removal of all cartilage is effective but disfiguring . removal of only affected cartilage and constant irrigation with antibiotic solutions is effective but requires prolonged hospitalization . iontophoresis of antibiotics into the auricle may be effective and conserve tissue . traumatic deformities are corrected with composite grafts from the opposite ear , costal cartilage , and local pedicled flaps . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
growth hormone for short stature not due to classic growth hormone deficiency . the advent of recombinant dna technology has resulted in potentially unlimited supplies of growth hormone . sufficient quantities are now available not only for the long-term , uninterrupted treatment of gh-deficient children but potentially for the treatment of non-gh-deficient patients with other short stature or growth attenuating disorders . short-term studies have demonstrated an improvement in the growth rates of subjects with isolated short stature , turner syndrome , and chronic renal failure ; and additional studies are under way to assess the efficacy of gh therapy of other short stature syndromes . however , the long-term efficacy and possible adverse effects of gh treatment in these situations is not known . until there has been more experience , gh deficiency should remain the primary indication for gh treatment . growth hormone should not be considered routine therapy for other conditions associated with or resulting in short stature . however , research should continue in these areas to define which children may benefit from gh treatment . 
bismuth subsalicylate in the treatment of acute diarrhea in children : a clinical study . bismuth subsalicylate ( bss ) and placebo were evaluated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled study as adjunct to rehydration therapy in 123 children , aged 4 to 28 months , hospitalized with acute diarrhea . the dosing regimen was 20 mg/kg five times daily for 5 days . significant benefits were noted in the bss group compared with placebo as manifested by decreases in stool frequency and stool weights and an improvement in stool consistency , significant improvement in clinical well-being , and shortening of the disease duration . patients treated with bss had a significant reduction in duration of hospital stay ( 6.9 days ) compared with placebo-treated patients ( 8.5 days ) . also , intravenous fluid requirements decreased significantly more rapidly and to a greater degree in the bss-treated group . bismuth subsalicylate was associated with clearance of pathogenic escherichia coli from the stools in 100 % of cases but was not different from placebo in rotavirus elimination . bismuth subsalicylate was well tolerated with no reported adverse effects . blood bismuth and serum salicylate levels were well below levels considered toxic . in this study , bss provided effective adjunctive therapy for acute diarrhea , allowing children to get well sooner with less demand on the nursing and hospital staff . 
use and misuse of oral therapy for diarrhea : comparison of us practices with american academy of pediatrics recommendations . to determine how closely us pediatricians follow the 1985 american academy of pediatrics committee on nutrition 's recommendations on oral therapy for acute diarrhea , a questionnaire was administered to four groups : new england private practitioners , pediatricians from 27 states attending a postgraduate course , representatives of departments of pediatrics at us schools of medicine , and housestaff at boston children 's and massachusetts general hospitals . the responses from departments of pediatrics and housestaff were not significantly different from those of community practitioners in most categories . the reported rate of use of glucose-electrolyte solutions recommended by the american academy of pediatrics was not different from the use of nonphysiologic , high-osmolar , low-salt solutions such as sodas and juices . the usage rate for glucose-electrolyte solutions meeting the american academy of pediatrics-recommended carbohydrate-to-sodium ratio of less than 2:1 was less than 30 % . other findings included the general lack of agreement on the use of a single type of therapy and the common use of oral therapy only for mild or no dehydration . although the american academy of pediatrics recommends that feeding be reintroduced in the first 24 hours of a diarrheal episode , the majority of respondents withhold feeding until the second day or later . these findings indicate that educational programs on oral therapy during acute diarrhea are needed in the united states . 
stridor : intracranial pathology causing postextubation vocal cord paralysis . during an 18-month period in a pediatric intensive care unit , nine patients with vocal cord paralysis were identified using flexible bronchoscopy . when tracheally extubated , each child was found to have stridor . the children ranged in age from 17 days to 5 1/2 years . two patients had unilateral paralysis , but neither required tracheostomy . seven patients displayed bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis . of these , six patients required tracheostomy . surgical injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve was the probable cause in two patients . the other seven patients had neurologic disorders with documented or suspected increases of intracranial pressure . four of the seven patients with bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis regained cord mobility within 4 months . both children with unilateral cord paralysis have no stridor and vocalize well 1 year later . cord paralysis in the setting of intracranial hypertension probably results from compression or ischemia of the vagus nerve before it exits the skull . early visualization of the larynx should be done in patients who become stridulous when extubated , especially those with prior thoracic procedures or with neurologic disorders associated with intracranial hypertension . 
bacteremia with otitis media . to investigate the occurrence and outcome of bacteremia associated with otitis media , charts were reviewed from patients who were 3 to 36 months of age , had temperatures greater than or equal to 39 degrees c , and were diagnosed with isolated clinical otitis media . a total of 2982 patients were identified . blood cultures were obtained from 1666 ( 56 % ) . of the 1666 patients , who had blood drawn for cultures , 50 ( 3.0 % ) had bacteremia . these included 39 with streptococcus pneumoniae , 4 with haemophilus influenzae , 2 with neisseria meningitidis , 3 with salmonella species , and 2 with staphylococcus aureus . the incidence of bacteremia increased at higher temperatures , being 1.9 % at temperatures less than or equal to 40 degrees c and 5.0 % at temperatures greater than 40 degrees c. younger children were more likely to have bacteremia ; 3.7 % less than or equal to 12 months of age , 2.4 % 13 to 24 months of age , and 1.9 % 25 to 36 months of age had blood culture results that were positive ( not significant ) . reevaluation of the 50 bacteremic patients showed that 9 patients had continued fever , 3 patients had persistent bacteremia , pneumonia developed in 1 patient , and meningitis developed in 1 patient . it was concluded that ( 1 ) 3 % of young febrile children with otitis media have bacteremia at the time of evaluation , a rate comparable to that previously reported in children with no focus of infection ; ( 2 ) the incidence of bacteremia increases at higher temperatures ; and ( 3 ) most febrile children with otitis media do well . the clinician must therefore weigh the potential benefit of drawing a blood culture to identify children at risk for complications against the inherent cost , inconvenience , and discomfort . 
unsupervised children in vehicles : a risk for pediatric trauma . in this study , a series of instances of children injured by a motor vehicle set in motion by an unsupervised child are reviewed . during a 24-month period , nine such children were identified through a multihospital and coroner 's office monitoring system in a single urban county . injuries ranged from multiple abrasions and contusions to serious leg and head injuries . three children died . the typical circumstance involved a child releasing the brake or placing the vehicle in gear in a private driveway which resulted in the vehicle striking or rolling over the victim . in four of the nine cases , the child who set the vehicle in motion fell or jumped from the vehicle and then became the injured victim . the extent of these unusual motor vehicle-related injuries is unknown because they are unlikely to be reported in official police statistics . according to the study findings , there is a need to educate the public and health professionals about the risks associated with leaving a child unattended in a motor vehicle and the hazardous environment of the private driveway . preventive measures would include not leaving a child unattended in a vehicle , locking unattended vehicles to prevent access , and redesigning of private driveways . 
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals . stagnara wake-up tests , blood flow measures , somatosensory evoked potentials ( seps ) , and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials ( nmeps ) were elicited from 20 hogs before and after spinal cord overdistraction at l3-l4 . overdistraction was maintained from 5 to 30 minutes after loss of nmeps . results suggest that the longer the duration of overdistraction the greater the likelihood of paraplegia . blood flow measures indicated that reduced perfusion was greatest at the distraction site but extended proximally and distally . finally , nmeps were more sensitive to onset of overdistraction and a more valid indicator of paraplegia than seps . nmeps should provide the surgeon with more time for initiation of intervention techniques than seps . because nmeps and seps provide information regarding different spinal cord tracts , the authors continue to use both methods for monitoring the functional integrity of the human spinal cord during corrective spine surgery . 
relationship among level of distraction , evoked potentials , spinal cord ischemia and integrity , and clinical status in animals . somatosensory evoked potentials ( seps ) and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials ( nmeps ) were recorded after overdistraction of the spinal cord at t5-t6 , t12-l1 , or l3-l4 . measures of spinal cord perfusion and clinical status were also administered . results indicated that stiffer spinal segments allowed less distraction than more flexible segments . seps and nmeps were lost quickly after overdistraction in stiff segments and slowly in more flexible segments . however , seps were less sensitive than nmeps to effects from overdistraction . spinal cord perfusion and integrity were consistent with reduced perfusion and structural damage after overdistraction in stiff segments ; extremely reduced perfusion but no structural changes in more flexible segments . the application of these results to the clinical situation was provided . 
influence of bone mineral density on the fixation of thoracolumbar implants . a comparative study of transpedicular screws , laminar hooks , and spinous process wires . posteriorly directed load to failure testing of four different types of spinal implants was performed in individual t5 to s1 vertebra harvested from seven fresh-frozen human cadaveric spines . the implants tested were : 1 ) drummond spinous process wires , 2 ) harrington laminar hooks , 3 ) cotrel-dubousset transpedicular screws , and 4 ) steffee vsp transpedicular screws . the ultimate failure of each implant was compared with the bone mineral density of each vertebra to determine which implants , if any , were particularly advantageous in osteoporotic vertebrae . before biomechanical testing , the spines were analyzed in vitro by dual photon absorptiometry to determine the bone mineral densities ( gm/cm2 ) of each vertebra . the mean tensile loads to failure for each of the implants tested were as follows : cotrel-dubousset transpedicular screws : 345 newtons ; spinous process wire/button : 382 newtons ; steffee transpedicular screws : 430 newtons ; and laminar hooks : 646 newtons . the difference between the loads to failure for laminar hooks and the other implants was significant ( p less than 0.05 ) using one-way analysis of variance . the overall correlation coefficient for bone mineral density with ultimate load to failure was 0.30 ( p less than 0.001 ) . the correlation coefficients were 0.47 ( p less than 0.001 ) for spinous process wires alone ; 0.096 ( not significant ) for laminar hooks alone ; 0.37 ( p less than 0.001 ) for cotrel-dubousset pedicle screws ; and 0.48 ( p less than 0.001 ) for steffee pedicle screws . of the four different implants tested , laminar hooks were most resistant to failure from posteriorly directed forces . 
the use of fibrin sealant to reduce blood loss during cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis . the increased complexity of cotrel-dubousset instrumentation has , as an unexpected side effect , a potential increase in blood loss . a prospective randomized study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that application of a fibrin sealant to exposed cancellous bone can significantly reduce blood loss during cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis . a significant difference was demonstrated in total body loss , loss per level fused , and loss per kilogram of body weight when comparing the sealant group with random controls . a significant difference was demonstrated in loss per level fused when comparing the sealant control with a historical control group . thirty-three patients were randomly assigned to the fibrin sealant or nonsealant groups ; another 10 patients operated on before planning the study were included as historical controls . the sealant was used to control bleeding at the bone graft donor site and in the spine after decortication . all patients underwent cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis . there were no significant differences between groups with respect to degree of curvature , number of levels fused , age or weight of patient , or operating time . total blood loss in the sealant group averaged 672 ml compared with 894 ml in the sealant control group . no patient in the sealant group required homologous blood . given the increasing awareness of the complications of blood transfusion , the authors conclude that fibrin sealant is a useful adjunct to spinal surgical technique . 
decompensation after cotrel-dubousset instrumentation of idiopathic scoliosis . spinal decompensation after corrective surgery for scoliosis appears to be a significant problem after cotrel-dubousset instrumentation ( cdi ) . cdi produces torsional changes in the instrumented and uninstrumented spine that could result in spinal imbalance . preoperative and postoperative three-dimensional analysis including computed tomography ( ct ) scans to measure vertebral rotation and segmental rotation were performed to evaluate the importance of torsional changes . moe/king type ii deformities had a substantially greater risk of imbalance . deformities instrumented over fewer spinal segments were less likely to decompensate . specifically , instrumentation excluding the mobile transition segment , determined by maximum segmental rotation and segmental cobb angle , was likely to decompensate . derotation and deformity correction excessive in relation to preoperative side bending flexibility and segmental rotation frequently resulted in imbalance . spinal imbalance after cdi can be reduced by avoiding overcorrection and inclusion of mobile transition segments . 
combined anterior and posterior fusion for spinal deformity in myelomeningocele . since 1973 , 50 of 54 children have been treated by the author with a combined anterior and posterior fusion . twenty males and 34 females , ranging in age from 1 to 16 years , have been followed for a mean period of 5.5 years . sixteen patients with a kyphosis averaging 113 degrees ( range , 77 to 170 degrees ) had correction of deformity to a mean of 35 degrees . thirty-seven patients with a scoliosis averaging 73 degrees ( range , 20 to 135 degrees ) had correction to an average of 34 degrees ( range , 0 to 75 degrees ) . there were 4 cases of deep wound infection successfully treated with drainage and antibiotics and only one case required implant removal after fusion/maturation . a pseudarthrosis was noted by radiograph in 6 patients , 3 of whom had isolated asymptomatic lumbosacral pseudarthroses . three patients had pseudarthrosis at the thoracolumbar junction . these required repair and were successfully treated by supplemental posterior fusion resulting in an overall pseudarthrosis rate of 5.7 % . anterior fusion of the dysraphic spine allows greater correction of both spinal deformity and pelvic obliquity in addition to contributing significant strength to the fusion mass . segmental spinal instrumentation with sublaminar and pedicular wiring to custom-contoured luque rods provides excellent correction and immediate postoperative stability . 
quantification of leakage pressures after durotomy repairs in the canine . this study was undertaken to investigate the relative strengths of dural repair using standard suture techniques , suture supplemented with tissue adhesive , and tissue adhesive alone . uniform 2 mm dural defects were created in adult beagles , repaired , and then subjected to pressurization testing . defects repaired with suture alone initially leaked within the range of physiologic pressurization , while those supplemented with tissue adhesive or repaired with tissue adhesive alone failed at higher pressurization levels . histologic sections obtained from the dura treated with fibrin adhesive sealant demonstrated minimal inflammatory response not significantly different than those sections examined at sites repaired by suture alone . a new substance , fibrin adhesive sealant , appears to be useful in effecting dural repair due to its ability to withstand pressures greater than those obtained with suture alone . 
spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula : the " abdominal pain , hematuria , silent left kidney " syndrome . spontaneous aorto-left renal vein fistula ( alrvf ) is a rare occurrence ; with this case , only 16 have been reported to date . common features in patients with alrvf include abdominal pain ( 81 % ) , hematuria ( 100 % ) , impaired renal function ( 85 % ) , and nonvisualization of the left kidney ( 100 % ) . less common but also present in the majority of cases are a left sided bruit ( 73 % ) , pulsatile abdominal mass ( 63 % ) , and proteinuria ( 50 % ) . also important , 94 % have a retroaortic left renal vein , unlike the six cases of traumatic alrvf that have been reported . this magnifies the diagnostic value of contrast abdominal computed tomographic scanning , which demonstrates not only the anomalous location of the left renal vein but also the abdominal aortic aneurysm and poor enhancement of the left kidney . these findings rule out the possibility of the " nutcracker syndrome " ( left renal vein compression between aorta and superior mesenteric artery ) . although confirming the presence of a fistula by early caval opacification , aortography does not always distinguish alrvf from the more common aortocaval fistula . this can be accomplished by duplex scanning with deep probes and even preferably color coding of velocity signals . with such precise preoperative localization , surgical repair is relatively easy and safe . 
polyarteritis nodosa presenting as a biliary stricture . polyarteritis nodosa , a disease of the media of small and medium-sized arteries , has protean manifestations and many presenting signs and symptoms . gastrointestinal involvement is common but involvement of the biliary tree is rare . we report a unique case of polyarteritis presenting as a biliary stricture . 
leucine kinetics in patients with benign disease , non-weight-losing cancer , and cancer cachexia : studies at the whole-body and tissue level and the response to nutritional support . we have performed intraoperative isotopic infusions of carbon 14-labeled leucine in 65 patients to define the abnormalities in protein metabolism at both the whole-body and tissue level in patients with weight-losing and non-weight-losing cancer . eighteen patients had benign disease , 26 had non-weight-losing cancer , and 21 had cancer cachexia . samples of plasma and expired breath were taken to determine rates of whole-body protein synthesis ( wbps ) , whole-body protein catabolism ( wbpc ) , net protein catabolism , and albumin fractional synthetic rates . tissue samples were taken to determine the fractional synthetic rates ( fsr ) of protein in muscle , liver , cancer , and the tissue in which the cancer arose . in addition , in 14 patients the effect of nutritional support on protein metabolism was assessed . in all parameters examined we were unable to detect any significant differences between patients with no cancer and the patients with non-weight-losing cancer . in contrast , patients with cancer cachexia had a significant elevation ( p less than 0.005 ) in wbpc compared with the other two groups . wbps was also elevated ( to a lesser extent ) in the patients with cancer cachexia , and the rate of net protein catabolism was increased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) . patients with cancer cachexia also had significantly higher values of fsr of protein in muscle ( p less than 0.05 ) , liver ( p less than 0.05 ) , and albumin ( p less than 0.01 ) compared with the other two groups . in addition , the protein fsr in the cancer rose progressively when the values for the primary cancer were compared with those for nodal and systemic metastases . further , although nutritional support resulted in an increase in host muscle protein synthesis ( p less than 0.04 ) , there was no promotion of fsr of protein in cancer . we conclude that patients with cancer cachexia are actively losing protein as a result of an increase in wbpc that is only partially compensated for by an increase in wbps . there are compensatory increases in protein synthesis in muscle and liver , but these increases in host protein synthesis are insufficient to keep pace with the combined effect of the accelerated rate of protein synthesis in the cancer per se and the accelerated rate of net protein catabolism at the whole-body level . in response to nutritional support , there is a significant increase in the muscle protein synthesis , but we could not demonstrate any increase in cancer protein synthesis . 
pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia in patients undergoing liver transplantation : an emerging problem . in our institution , pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia appeared to occur with increasing frequency in patients undergoing liver transplantation . we thus conducted a prospective study to define risk factors and outcome in these patients . over a 19-month period 6 % of liver transplants were followed by pseudomonas bacteremia . the mean age was 46 years ( range , 24 to 67 years ) . the interval between transplantation and onset of bacteremia was 3 to 372 days ( mean , 80 ) . the incidence of pseudomonas bacteremia in liver transplants was three times that of other transplants ( heart , lung , kidney ) . ninety one percent of infections were nosocomial . polymicrobial bacteremia occurred in 30 % of episodes . the portal of entry was respiratory in 30 % , abdominal in 35 % , and biliary in 13 % . four patients had recurrent pseudomonas bacteremia : liver abscess ( 1 ) , biliary obstruction ( 2 ) , subhepatic abscess ( 1 ) . survival at 14 days was 70 % . survival rates were significantly lower for patients with hypotension , on mechanical ventilators , and increasing severity of illness ( p less than 0.05 ) . survival was higher when bacteremia occurred within the first 30 days after transplantation compared to after 30 days . a large number ( 43.4 % ) of pseudomonas bacteremias occurred after transplant surgery of biliary tract manipulation , while the patient was receiving a prophylactic regimen of cefotaxime and ampicillin . p. aeruginosa is an important pathogen in the liver transplant recipient ; prevention may be possible for a subgroup of patients with the use of prophylactic antibiotics with activity against p. aeruginosa . 
gastric duplication cyst communicating with the pancreatic duct : a rare cause of recurrent abdominal pain . a 41-year-old woman with recurrent attacks of postprandial abdominal pain was found on endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and subsequent computed tomographic scan to have an enteric duplication within the substance of the pancreas with communication to the pancreatic duct . celiotomy demonstrated a noncontiguous gastric duplication cyst . internal drainage was curative . 
therapy of diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with nimodipine . we investigated the therapeutic effect of nimodipine or parathyroidectomy in old , diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats by observing 98 male 1-year-old rats over 5 months . after stroke had occurred , the rats were divided into three groups : 1 ) parathyroidectomy , 2 ) nimodipine , and 3 ) controls . in the nimodipine group , the rats survived longer than those in the other groups . blood pressure of the controls did not differ from the nimodipine-treated and parathyroidectomy animals . the increase in calcium content of brain and kidney tissues and of plasma renin activity , urea , and creatinine was attenuated by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy . the histology of the kidneys revealed widespread fibrinoid necrosis of arteries in all rats . in the nimodipine-treated or parathyroidectomy groups , healing of the lesions was detectable . cerebral lesions were mainly characterized by fibrinoid necrosis . nimodipine-treated as well as parathyroidectomied animals showed significantly fewer hypertensive cerebral lesions . in old , diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats , therapy with nimodipine or parathyroidectomy increased their survival rate . the cerebrovascular and renovascular lesions of treated animals were attenuated , and morphologic signs of healing were observed . reduction of calcium overload by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy , even in an advanced stage of disease , had a therapeutic effect . 
efficacy of nimodipine in cerebral ischemia or hemorrhage . our studies showed that in an appropriate dose , nimodipine increased local cerebral blood flow with no corresponding increase in local metabolism . nimodipine treatment given before experimental ischemic insult , resulting from either vascular occlusion or intracranial hemorrhage or after subarachnoid hemorrhage , maintained or improved blood flow and minimized the severity of subsequent brain damage . lack of benefit from nimodipine treatment after the insult may occur because the inexorable progression of events leading to ischemic neuronal damage , once initiated , can not be arrested . on the other hand , pharmacokinetic factors may be important , and post-treatment efficacy may depend on administration protocols that achieve an adequate concentration in ischemic tissue sufficiently soon after an insult . our findings are compatible with the benefit of nimodipine being due to an improvement in blood flow that reduces the severity of ischemia . however , they do not exclude the possibility that treatment may minimize the accumulation of calcium in damaged cells as a result of " cytoprotective " effects . 
relevance of focal cerebral ischemia models . experience with fibrinolytic agents . despite the limitations of individual ischemia models , experience with fibrinolytic agents suggests that 1 ) early intervention with rt-pa may result in rapid thrombolysis , functional recovery , and decreased mortality in small animal stroke thromboembolism models , 2 ) rt-pa has no general effect on clinical recovery following mca occlusion and reperfusion in the nonhuman primate at dose rates capable of producing very high circulating rt-pa levels , while u-pa has an apparently salutary effect , and 3 ) intravenous infusion of rt-pa or u-pa early after ischemia/infarction in several model systems is not associated with significant intracerebral hemorrhage . the true clinical relevance of these general impressions must await the completion of human studies and studies in well-conceived models designed to define the vascular consequences to be expected from reperfusion achievable with thrombolytic agents . 
recent trends in cesarean section use in california . cesarean section use in the united states has increased to 24.7 % of deliveries in 1988 and is the most common hospital surgical procedure . california cesarean section rates were examined to measure recent trends in obstetric practices and to project future patterns of cesarean section use . using discharge abstracts from 1983 to 1987 california hospital deliveries , total cesarean section rates were found to increase from nearly 22 % in 1983 to 25 % in 1987 , an increase of 15 % . using a series of least-squares regression models , time trends in the distribution of indications associated with cesarean section among all deliveries and indication-specific cesarean section rates were evaluated . increases in the number of women with previous cesarean section and fetal distress contributed to rising cesarean section rates . in addition , indication-specific cesarean section rates increased for breech presentation and dystocia . these trends were counterbalanced , in part , by declining rates of repeat cesarean sections . trends noted for july 1985 through 1987 did not differ substantially from those observed for january 1983 to june 1985 , suggesting that recent policy attempts to alter cesarean section use have not had a measurable effect on existing trends . projections suggest that california cesarean section rates will rise to a level of 34 % by the year 2000 . 
toxic carbamazepine concentrations following cardiothoracic surgery and myocardial infarction . carbamazepine is being used more frequently in the u.s. as an initial agent of choice to treat generalized tonic-clonic , mixed , and partial seizures with complex symptomatology . carbamazepine is extensively metabolized in the liver ; however , there is little information available on its pharmacokinetics in patients following surgery or myocardial infarction , or in those with liver disease . we report a case of a patient who attained toxic carbamazepine serum concentrations ( ranging from 18.2 to 21.5 micrograms/ml ) two days after cardiothoracic surgery and an intraoperative myocardial infarction , and experienced lethargy , diplopia , dysarthria , diaphoresis , and horizontal and downgaze nystagmus . these alterations in serum carbamazepine concentration normalized ten days after surgery . they may have been due to a combination of changes in protein binding and decreased elimination due to altered intrinsic hepatic clearance . with carbamazepine achieving a more prominent place in anticonvulsant therapy , the influence of various procedures and disease processes on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of carbamazepine , as well as the clinical consequences of such changes , need further investigation . 
sympathomimetics for acute severe asthma : should only beta 2-selective agonists be used ? sympathomimetics have become a mainstay of the treatment of acute asthma . aerosolization of sympathomimetics provides as great or greater bronchodilation in acute severe asthma with fewer systemic effects than parenteral therapy . despite the broncho-selectivity achieved with this route of administration , cardiostimulation remains the major , dose-limiting factor in the safe use of sustained , high-dose therapy with these agents . this article reviews the pharmacology , adverse effects , and toxicities of selected beta agonists , as well as clinical studies relevant to the question posed in the title . although the ideal study to answer this question has not yet been performed , the authors feel that available evidence supports the preferential use of selective beta 2 agonists in patients with acute , severe asthma who will require high doses of beta agonists . 
irreversible tubulointerstitial damage associated with chronic aminonucleoside nephrosis . amelioration by angiotensin i converting enzyme inhibition . chronic aminonucleoside nephrosis is variably associated with tubulointerstitial damage , depending on the route and frequency of drug administration . recently , different groups have shown this injurious tubulointerstitial process to be reversible , coinciding with the resolution of heavy proteinuria to normal values . the authors have previously shown that a single jugular intravenous administration of puromycin aminonucleoside ( pa ) to male munich-wistar rats produces a triphasic pattern of glomerular injury and proteinuria , which culminates in focal glomerulosclerosis 70 weeks after drug administration . the authors now report the later progression of the tubulointerstitial morphologic abnormalities associated with acute nephrosis ( phase i ) , despite spontaneous resolution of glomerular injury during the intermediate period ( phase ii ) in this model . although treatment of rats with the angiotensin i converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril ( 50 mg/l drinking water ) over the 70-week period did not affect the magnitude of proteinuria during the acute nephrotic phase , enalapril prevented the recurrence of proteinuria ( phase iii ) , as well as significantly reducing the severity of interstitial fibrosis , extent of tubular dilatation , and number of intratubular casts on semiquantitative scoring at the conclusion of the study . in addition , enalapril-treated rats had less low-molecular-weight protein excretion during the recurrent phase of proteinuria , suggesting a preservation of tubular functional capacity to reabsorb these proteins . in vitro cytotoxicity studies showed only the glomerular visceral epithelial cell to be sensitive to pa , in contrast with rat tubular epithelium and other cellular controls . although the exact pathogenetic mechanism responsible for the development of the tubulointerstitial damage remains unknown , pa in vitro does not adversely affect rat tubular epithelium ; there is however a clear correlation between the magnitude of recurrent proteinuria and the severity of tubulointerstitial morphologic abnormalities , as suggested by the beneficial effect of converting enzyme inhibition on both of these untoward processes . 
reversibility of hepatic fibrosis in experimentally induced cholestasis in rat . the reversibility of hepatic fibrosis was investigated in an experimental model of extrahepatic cholestasis in the rat after common bile duct ligation for 2 weeks , followed by bilioduodenal anastomosis for 3 weeks . bile duct ligation resulted in a transitory marked elevation in the serum concentration of 5 ' - nucleotidase , alkaline phosphatase , and bilirubin during the first 3 days . then these levels decreased to threefold , twofold , and 100-fold the normal values , respectively , during the following 4 weeks . histologic examination of the liver disclosed extensive bile duct proliferation and the formation of periportal fibrosis , with only slight inflammation and necrosis . the distribution of the major components of the hepatic extracellular matrix was analyzed 2 weeks after bile duct ligation , using the indirect immunoperoxidase method . fibrous septa were found to be strongly stained for collagens i , pro-iii , iii and iv , fibronectin , and laminin . the most intense staining was found in enlarged periportal areas , collagen iv and laminin being particularly abundant around newly formed bile ducts . these changes paralleled high steady-state levels of alpha 1 ( i ) and alpha 1 ( iv ) collagen and b2 chain laminin mrnas . relief of the obstruction for 2 weeks resulted in a shift in the serum concentration of 5 ' - nucleotidase , alkaline phosphatase , and bilirubin toward normal values . a dramatic resorption of bile duct proliferations and periportal fibrosis were observed . three weeks after bile duct repermeabilization , immunohistochemical study showed that the pattern of distribution of extracellular matrix components was almost normal , except for collagen iv , which remained abundant in the sinusoids when compared with the normal liver . in parallel , the steady-state b2-chain laminin mrna level became lower than in cholestatic livers , whereas alpha 1 ( i ) and alpha 1 ( iv ) mrnas were almost undetectable . these results show that hepatic fibrosis induced by experimental extrahepatic cholestasis in rat disappears in less than 3 weeks after relief of bile duct obstruction , suggesting that an active degradation of matrix protein occurs , except for collagen iv in the sinusoid . 
capillary leakage in inflammation . a study by vascular labeling . the local injection of pure inflammatory mediators induces venular leakage . to test the effect of endogenous mediators from dying tissue on vascular leakage , the authors devised an experimental model simulating an infarct , whereby living vessels would be exposed to fragments of organs undergoing aseptic necrosis . tissues from donor rats were implanted aseptically in the cremasteric sac . control rats were implanted with materials deemed to be as close as possible to nonirritating : boiled tissues and spheres of teflon or glass . at different points the rats were injected intravenously with carbon black and killed an hour later . whole cremaster mounts showed that vascular labeling was strictly venular up to 8 hours , mixed with capillary labeling between 12 and 24 hours , and mainly or exclusively capillary at 48 hours . histology showed an acute inflammatory infiltrate in the labeled areas . a similar but weaker labeling pattern accompanied by milder inflammation was seen in controls . these results indicate that the vascular leakage in aseptic inflammation is biphasic , first venular , then capillary ; and that the capillary phase is induced by the inflammatory reaction itself , possibly through a form of diffuse angiogenesis . 
evidence for platelet-activating factor as a late-phase mediator of chronic pancreatitis in the rat . the role of platelet-activating factor ( paf ) as a mediator of pancreatic inflammation was examined in the rat pancreatic duct ligation model of obstructive pancreatitis . pancreatic generation of paf , as measured by bioassay ( ie , platelet [ 3h ] serotonin secretion ) , was determined at various times after induction of inflammation . tissue levels of paf in the normal pancreas averaged 600 + / - 49 pg/g , but paf was not detectable during the initial 24 hours of pancreatitis , a time when the inflammatory reaction would be considered acute , that is , during the period of maximal serum amylase release and the development of interstitial edema . however a substantial increase in pancreatic paf levels ( 12 times control levels ) was observed 7 to 14 days after duct ligation during the late-phase response interval similar to the situation characteristic of chronic pancreatitis in which parenchymal atrophy , fibrosis , and pancreatic insufficiency evolve . one week after duct ligation when paf levels peaked , an evaluation was made of the effects of paf antagonists ( bn52021 and web2170 ) on pancreatic lesions using evan 's blue extravasation , pancreatic myeloperoxidase ( mpo ) activity , and acid phosphatase activity in peritoneal lavage fluid . bn52021 or web2170 treatment was shown to reduce pancreatic damage and inflammation significantly . long-term in vivo administration of exogenous paf ( 20 micrograms/kg/hr for 7 days ) exhibited a reduction of [ 3h ] thymidine uptake into and amylase release from pancreatic acini in vitro . our observations 1 ) that pancreatic paf levels increased significantly during the chronic phase of obstructive pancreatitis induced by duct ligation ; 2 ) that inhibition of the action of paf , through specific receptor antagonism , caused an attenuation of pancreatic lesions ; and 3 ) that chronic administration of paf resulted in decreased pancreatic regeneration and exocrine function are consistent with a pivotal role for paf as a late-phase inflammatory mediator in chronic pancreatitis in rats . 
childhood traumas : an outline and overview childhood psychic trauma appears to be a crucial etiological factor in the development of a number of serious disorders both in childhood and in adulthood . like childhood rheumatic fever , psychic trauma sets a number of different problems into motion , any of which may lead to a definable mental condition . the author suggests four characteristics related to childhood trauma that appear to last for long periods of life , no matter what diagnosis the patient eventually receives . these are visualized or otherwise repeatedly perceived memories of the traumatic event , repetitive behaviors , trauma-specific fears , and changed attitudes about people , life , and the future . she divides childhood trauma into two basic types and defines the findings that can be used to characterize each of these types . type i trauma includes full , detailed memories , " omens , " and misperceptions . type ii trauma includes denial and numbing , self-hypnosis and dissociation , and rage . crossover conditions often occur after sudden , shocking deaths or accidents that leave children handicapped . in these instances , characteristics of both type i and type ii childhood traumas exist side by side . there may be considerable sadness . each finding of childhood trauma discussed by the author is illustrated with one or two case examples . 
cognitive and behavioral effects of the coadministration of dextroamphetamine and haloperidol in schizophrenia . objective : the authors sought to determine if an acute dose of dextroamphetamine might have positive effects on affect and cognition in schizophrenic patients maintained on a regimen of haloperidol and , if so , what variables might predict such improvements . method : twenty-one patients with chronic schizophrenia who were hospitalized on a research ward received a single oral dose of dextroamphetamine ( 0.25 mg/kg ) in a double-blind , placebo-controlled , crossover study . all patients were receiving 0.4 mg/kg per day of haloperidol . cognitive tests , motor tests , global ratings , mood ratings , and videotape ratings were used to determine the effect of the coadministration of these drugs . ventricle-brain ratios derived from ct scans were used to predict response to the coadministration of these drugs . results : amphetamine improved performance on a measure of concept formation on the wisconsin card sorting test but did not result in changes in performance on tests of memory or attention . as a group , the patients were more active and performed psychomotor tests more quickly while receiving amphetamine . six patients were judged by clinical raters to have improved in terms of affect , cooperation , and engagement with the environment . improvement was associated with enlarged cerebral ventricles and increases in blink rate from the placebo to the active drug condition . no patient unequivocally worsened . conclusions : these results may be consistent with the theory that coadministration of amphetamine and haloperidol produces relatively selective enhancement of cortical dopaminergic activity . however , because of the acute nature of the trial and the specialized research environment in which it was conducted , the authors do not advocate amphetamine as a routine clinical treatment of schizophrenia . 
use of neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms to predict future vulnerability to side effects . objective : susceptibility to neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal syndromes varies widely , even within age and sex subgroups . individual vulnerability to extrapyramidal syndromes has been assumed to explain this , but the utility of past history for predicting future occurrence of extrapyramidal syndromes has not been studied extensively . this investigation was undertaken to determine whether patients ' previous histories of extrapyramidal syndromes predict future episodes of extrapyramidal syndromes and to compare the importance of this predictive factor with patient age , sex , neuroleptic dose , and anticholinergic dose as predictors of extrapyramidal syndromes . methods : the charts of 62 schizophrenic patients with multiple neuroleptic treatment episodes were reviewed . extrapyramidal syndromes , neuroleptic drug doses , and anticholinergic drug doses during the first 21 days of each treatment episode were recorded . results : previous extrapyramidal syndromes correctly predicted extrapyramidal syndromes in subsequent treatments for 84 % of the patients . variations in neuroleptic potency , neuroleptic dose , and anticholinergic dose partially explained incorrect predictions . conclusions : these results support the hypothesis that patients with a history of extrapyramidal syndromes are at greater risk for future extrapyramidal syndromes . if confirmed , these results strongly support individual susceptibility as a major predictor of extrapyramidal syndromes and indicate that prophylaxis of extrapyramidal syndromes should be considered for patients who have previously suffered extrapyramidal syndromes from similarly prescribed neuroleptic therapy . 
a prospective analysis of intramuscular meperidine , promethazine , and chlorpromazine in pediatric emergency department patients . study objective : to examine physiologic responses and efficacy of 2 , 1 , and 1 mg/kg im meperidine , promethazine , and chlorpromazine ( mpc ) , respectively , in children . design : prospective , unblinded trial . setting : a university and community emergency department . patients : sixty-three hemodynamically and neurologically stable children . intervention : single dose of im mpc . measurements and main results : serial respirations , heart rate , arterial systolic blood pressure , oxygen saturation , and glasgow coma scale were measured at 30-minute intervals . effectiveness was assessed by two independent observers using separate visual analog scales for cooperation and sedation . times to sleep ( 27 + / - 24 minutes ) , sitting upright ( 103 + / - 87 minutes ) , ed discharge ( 4.7 + / - 2.4 hours ) , eating ( 11 + / - 7.9 hours ) , and normal behavior ( 19 + / - 15 hours ) were acceptable . minor , but statistically significant , changes in respiration rate ( -1.9 + / - 0.4 ) , heart rate ( +4.5 + / - 1.8 ) , oxygen saturation ( -0.7 + / - 0.3 % ) , and glasgow coma scale ( -2.5 + / - 0.6 ) occurred for 120 minutes after mpc . no serious complications or resuscitation were required . mean visual analog scale scores were 5.0 / 10.4 or more in 71 % of cases , with interobserver agreement very good ( cooperation , r = .79 ; effectiveness , r = .80 ) . twenty-nine percent of children were judged insufficiently sedated . conclusion : im mpc is a safe and generally effective agent for ed procedures in selected children . 
acute phase reactants and risk of bacterial meningitis among febrile infants and children . study objective : to test the hypothesis that quantitation of either c-reactive protein ( crp ) or the total peripheral wbc count can improve clinical detection of underlying bacterial meningitis among young febrile children . design : cross-sectional survey of selected symptoms of central nervous system infection , signs of meningeal irritation and/or elevated intracranial pressure , levels of crp in serum , and total peripheral wbc counts among unselected pediatric patients undergoing lumbar punctures for evaluation of acute febrile illnesses . setting : emergency department and acute care " walk-in " clinic of an urban , university-affiliated general hospital . participants : 160 previously well , acutely febrile infants and children ( median age , 6 months ) . results : the prevalence of bacterial meningitis was 6 % . sensitivity of symptoms was 1.00 and specificity was 0.17 . sensitivity of signs was 0.70 and specificity was 0.81 . of the acute phase reactants , sensitivity of a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl was 0.80 , while that of a total peripheral wbc count of more than 15,000 / mm3 was 0.40 . the presence of signs and/or a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all children with bacterial meningitis ( sensitivity , 1.00 ) . the absence of signs and a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 71 of 150 children without bacterial meningitis ( specificity , 0.47 ) . of 125 children without meningeal signs , the combination of symptoms and a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all three children with bacterial meningitis ( sensitivity , 1.00 ) . the absence of these symptoms and/or a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 80 of 122 children without bacterial meningitis ( specificity , 0.66 ) . conclusion : quantitation of crp but not the total peripheral wbc count can increase the sensitivity of physical examination findings and the specificity of symptoms for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis . measurement of crp in serum is useful as an adjunct to history and physical examination for the detection of acute bacterial meningitis in the acutely febrile child . 
comparison of rectal , axillary , and tympanic membrane temperatures in infants and young children . study objective : to evaluate the reliability of a tympanic membrane thermometer in detecting fever in young children presenting to the emergency department . setting : pediatric emergency department in an urban teaching hospital , design/measurement/participants : temperature measurements were obtained sequentially at three body sites in children less than 3 years old presenting to the pediatric ed . axillary and rectal temperatures were obtained with an electronic thermistor probe ( diatek 500 ) , and tympanic membrane temperatures were obtained with a noncontact , infrared sensing device ( first temp ) . patients were stratified by age , ear canal patency , presence of otitis media , and rectal temperature . results : of 224 patients enrolled , 87 ( 39 % ) were febrile . overall correlation of axillary and tympanic membrane measurements to rectal for all strata was .75 ( p = .001 ) and .81 ( p = .001 ) , respectively . sensitivity in detecting fever for axillary and tympanic membrane sites was .48 and .55 , respectively . otitis media and ear patency did not influence correlation of tympanic membrane measurements . low tympanic membrane temperature sensitivity may be a result of probe configuration . conclusion : tympanic membrane and axillary temperatures should be viewed with caution in children less than 3 years old as neither can detect fever reliably . 
core temperature measurement in hypovolemic resuscitation . study objectives : accurate core temperature measurement in severely hypovolemic patients can be difficult to achieve . we used a dog model to determine both a convenient method of measuring core temperature and the relative accuracy of the multiple sites . design : prospective laboratory ( animal model ) study . setting : operating suites in the animal care department . participants : eight adult , anesthetized greyhound dogs . interventions : continuous temperature monitoring by thermistors placed in the brain , central vein , tympanic membrane , bladder , rectum , esophagus , and subcutaneous tissue . hemorrhage to 65 % initial intravascular volume and autologous transfusion of cooled blood , during which serial temperature measurements were recorded . measurements and main results : the readings were analyzed with pearson 's correlation coefficient . brain temperature correlated very well with tympanic membrane temperature throughout the course ( r = .869 , p less than .0005 ) . rectum , bladder , and esophagus also correlated well with brain . central venous temperature , however , correlated poorly with temperatures at all other sites , reflecting the marked swings in intravascular temperature caused by cold transfusion . these wide variations were damped at the other sites . the best correlation of central venous temperature was with brain and bladder , although tympanic membrane correlation was fair . conclusions : because intravascular hypothermia appears to be the source of the arrhythmias and hemostatic abnormalities often seen during the early resuscitation of hypovolemic patients , our results suggest bladder or tympanic membrane as the initial temperature site . after the initial resuscitation , end organ ( eg , brain ) temperature is the most important and is most accurately reflected by tympanic membrane temperature . 
code 9 : a systematic approach for responding to medical emergencies occurring in and around a hospital . members of the public expect to receive efficient and appropriate medical care if they become acutely ill or injured while in or around a hospital . our institution became aware of the need for an organized system to respond to such emergencies involving patients , visitors , local community residents , and hospital employees , both inside the hospital and on the grounds surrounding the building . a search of the literature did not provide information regarding such a response ; a survey of surrounding hospitals revealed no such plan in effect in other institutions . we therefore designed a plan to be superimposed onto our existing system for responding to in-house cardiac and respiratory arrests ( " codes " ) . the results after one and one-half years appear encouraging . we recommend the establishment of such an emergency response system in all health care institutions . 
a comparison of neurological , metabolic , structural , and genetic evaluations in persons at risk for huntington 's disease . we compared four diagnostic data sets for the assessment of individuals at risk for huntington 's disease . fifty-four chorea-free persons were evaluated by neurological examination , positron emission tomography measurement of glucose metabolism , radiographic computerized tomographic measurement of caudate size , and genetic testing at the polymorphic dna loci d4s10 , d4s43 , and d4s125 . twelve ( 22 % ) persons had abnormal caudate metabolism , 6 ( 11 % ) had subtle abnormalities of motor control , and 7 ( 13 % ) had computed tomographic evidence of caudate atrophy , compared with an expected gene frequency of 34 % for this population . in 20 persons with unambiguous genetic test results or the subsequent phenotypic expression of huntington 's disease ( chorea ) , there was a greater sensitivity of the positron emission tomographic measurement of caudate metabolism ( 75 % ) relative to computed tomography ( 33 % ) or the clinical examination ( 17 % ) for the determination of a subpopulation of probable huntington 's disease gene carriers . hypometabolism of the putamen and globus pallidus , and hypermetabolism of the precentral gyrus were also associated with a high probability of carrying the huntington 's disease gene . the findings support the hypothesis that abnormalities of cerebral metabolism precede clinical or structural ( computed tomographic ) abnormalities in gene-positive individuals at risk for huntington 's disease . 
quadriceps myopathy : forme fruste of becker muscular dystrophy . we examined dystrophin , the protein product of the duchenne muscular dystrophy gene , in muscle biopsy specimens from 4 male patients with quadriceps myopathy , all of whom showed a mild and slowly progressive myopathy confined to the quadriceps muscles . all 4 patients had clear abnormalities of dystrophin , and were diagnosed as having becker muscular dystrophy by both immunofluorescence and immunoblot examinations ; that is , dystrophin of an abnormal molecular mass was visualized in muscle cryosections as " patchy " or discontinuous immunostaining at the surface membrane of the muscle fibers . one patient had a brother who showed widespread myopathic changes consistent with typical becker muscular dystrophy . we conclude that the syndrome called quadriceps myopathy includes a group of forme fruste becker muscular dystrophy . 
dystrophin analysis in duchenne and becker muscular dystrophy carriers : correlation with intracellular calcium and albumin . immunocytochemical localization and immunoblot analysis of dystrophin in muscle fibers of 11 obligate and probable , and 7 possible carriers of duchenne and becker muscular dystrophy revealed an abnormal expression of the protein in 3 of them . localization of calcium and albumin , as endogenous markers of extracellular fluid penetration , showed the presence of both molecules inside some fibers lacking dystrophin . our morphological studies show that the initial stages leading to fiber necrosis in duchenne muscular dystrophy are present in carriers with mosaicism . comparison of dystrophin studies with restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and creatine kinase levels showed that neither immunocytochemical nor immunoblot techniques for dystrophin are sensitive enough to provide a basis for genetic counseling . 
elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor levels in patients with active multiple sclerosis . the level of soluble interleukin-2 receptor ( sil-2r ) was quantitated with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in serum and cerebrospinal fluid obtained from 24 patients with multiple sclerosis and 10 patients with other neurological disorders in whom immunological mechanisms are unlikely to participate . the sil-2r level in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with multiple sclerosis in relapse was significantly higher compared with patients with multiple sclerosis in remission and with controls . the sil-2r level , especially in the cerebrospinal fluid , showed higher sensitivity and specificity than other clinical parameters including the cerebrospinal fluid igg ratio , peripheral lymphocyte cd4/cd8 ratio , cerebrospinal fluid myelin basic protein and oligoclonal bands . our data suggest that measurement of the sil-2r level may be useful in evaluating disease activity in patients with multiple sclerosis . 
isolation of a complementary dna clone encoding an autoantigen recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration . we isolated a complementary dna clone encoding a 52-kd protein recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody in serum from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration associated with uterine carcinoma . the recombinant protein expressed in prokaryotic cells was specifically recognized by the anti-neuronal cell antibody from the patient , and its molecular weight was identical to that of antigenic proteins in the cerebellum . the deduced protein consisted of 450 amino acids dominated by hydrophilic residues , the calculated relative molecular mass was 51,238 , and the predicted value of the isoelectric point was 4.99 . this complementary dna sequence and the deduced protein sequence have not been reported previously , and the sequences showed no homologies with the complimentary dna or the amino acid sequences in the genbank , embl , or nbrf databases , including the complementary dna for a 34-kd cerebellar protein ( cdr34 ) that is recognized by an anti-purkinje cell antibody . unexpectedly , the transcript of this gene was detected not only in the cerebellum and the brain stem but also in an extraneural tissue , the intestine . 
stiff-man syndrome : a gabaergic autoimmune disorder with autoantigenic heterogeneity . autoantibodies that reacted with cell bodies and axon terminals of gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) ergic neurons were present in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid in a patient with stiff-man syndrome with type i diabetes . immunoblot experiments using this patient 's serum and cerebrospinal fluid did not corroborate an earlier observation that these autoantibodies are directed against the gabaergic cytosolic enzyme , l-glutamic acid decarboxylase . while l-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoantibodies may be associated with this syndrome , they do not appear to be easily demonstrated . 
heterogeneity in the inheritance of alcoholism . a study of male and female twins . genetic influence on risk for alcoholism was examined in a us treatment sample of 50 monozygotic ( mz ) and 64 dizygotic ( dz ) male and 31 mz and 24 dz female same-sex twin pairs . for the dsm-iii composite diagnosis of alcohol abuse and/or dependence , statistically significant mz/dz differences in concordance were found with male , but not female , twins . for specific diagnoses , mz/dz differences were found in male subjects for both alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence , while mz/dz differences in female subjects were found only for alcohol dependence . the male mz/dz concordance difference for composite diagnosis but not for alcohol dependence could be accounted for statistically by differences in age of onset between mz and dz probands . as with alcohol , differences in mz/dz concordance were found for dsm-iii composite diagnoses of other substance abuse and/or dependence with male , but not female , twins . using epidemiological catchment area data to estimate the population base rates of both alcohol and other substance use disorders allowed for heritability analyses that showed genetic factors to have only a modest influence on overall risk in both sexes ( heritability estimates of approximately 0.35 for male subjects and 0.24 for female subjects ) . however , evidence for heterogeneity in the pattern of inheritance was also found , suggesting forms of alcoholism that may be moderately to highly heritable . 
suicide in twins . suicide appears to cluster in families , suggesting that genetic factors may play a role in this behavior . we studied 176 twin pairs in which one or both twins had committed suicide . seven of the 62 monozygotic twin pairs were concordant for suicide compared with two of the 114 dizygotic twin pairs ( 11.3 % vs 1.8 % ) . the presence of psychiatric disorder in the twins and their families was examined in a subsample of 11 twin pairs , two of whom were concordant for suicide . eleven of these 13 twin suicide victims had been treated for psychiatric disorder , as had eight of their nine surviving cotwins . in addition , twins in 10 pairs had other first - or second-degree relatives who had been treated for psychiatric disorder . thus , these twin data suggest that genetic factors related to suicide may largely represent a genetic predisposition for the psychiatric disorders associated with suicide . however , they leave open the question of whether there may be an independent genetic component for suicide . 
valproate in the treatment of acute mania . a placebo-controlled study . we conducted a placebo-controlled , double-blind study of valproate , a drug originally developed as an antiepileptic , in 36 patients with acute manic episodes who had previously failed to respond to or to tolerate lithium carbonate . treatment duration was 7 to 21 days , with no other psychotropic medications permitted except lorazepam up to 4 mg/d during the first 10 days of treatment . serum valproate concentrations were measured three times weekly ; an unblinded investigator then adjusted dosage to produce serum concentrations between 50 and 100 mg/l . valproate proved superior to placebo in alleviating manic symptoms . the 17 patients randomized to active drug demonstrated a median 54 % decrease in scores on the young mania rating scale as compared with a median 5.0 % decrease among the 19 patients receiving placebo . on the 100-point global assessment scale of overall psychiatric functioning , patients receiving valproate improved by a median of 20 points as compared with a zero-point change with placebo . significant differences also emerged on the brief psychiatric rating scale and in the number of supplemental doses of lorazepam required by the patients in each group . substantial antimanic effects appeared within 1 to 4 days of achieving therapeutic serum valproate concentrations . adverse effects were infrequent , with no adverse effect appearing significantly more frequently with valproate than with placebo . we conclude that valproate represents a useful new drug for the treatment of manic patients . 
carbamazepine maintenance treatment in outpatient schizophrenics . a double-blind crossover trial was used to evaluate carbamazepine as the sole maintenance treatment of chronic , nonmanic schizophrenic outpatients whose conditions had been stabilized with the use of neuroleptics prior to study . criteria of treatment effectiveness included the number of patients relapsing and time to relapse over a 95-day neuroleptic-free period during which either carbamazepine or placebo was administered . relapse was determined by the concordance of psychiatric ratings and independent clinical judgements indicating significant worsening . results for 27 patients ( 13 receiving carbamazepine and 14 receiving placebo ) involved in the first phase of this treatment comparison were nondifferentiating . corroborating descriptive findings in the second phase were available for 14 of these patients . there was no evidence supporting the existence of a treatment-relevant subgroup defined by episodic dyscontrol phenomena . 
changes in plasma homovanillic acid concentrations in schizophrenic patients following neuroleptic discontinuation . changes in plasma levels of the dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid have been reported to correlate with changes in the severity of schizophrenic symptoms during neuroleptic administration and after neuroleptic discontinuation . this study examined the effects of discontinuation of neuroleptic treatment on plasma homovanillic acid levels in 23 patients with chronic schizophrenia . it was hypothesized that clinical decompensation would be associated with increased plasma homovanillic acid levels . plasma homovanillic acid was measured during administration of neuroleptic medication and during a subsequent 6-week drug-free period . nine patients decompensated during the drug-free period and 14 patients did not . following drug discontinuation , plasma homovanillic acid concentrations were higher in schizophrenic patients who decompensated than in those who did not . furthermore , peak plasma homovanillic acid elevation after discontinuation of neuroleptic medication was significantly correlated with peak brief psychiatric rating scale increase . the data suggest that , in some schizophrenic patients , symptomatic decompensation after discontinuation of neuroleptic treatment is associated with increases in dopamine turnover . 
septic arthritis of the c1-c2 lateral facet joint and torticollis : pseudo-grisel 's syndrome . we present the case of a 76-year-old man who experienced the sudden development of fever , rightsided neck pain and stiffness , and torticollis . a soft tissue mass was noted on the right side of his neck , but his head was tilted to the left . computed tomography scans ( with reformatted sagittal and coronal images ) of the patient 's cervical spine revealed destructive changes of the right lateral masses of c1 and c2 and the clivus , and a well-delineated peridontoid soft tissue mass ( confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging ) . after the second episode of right-sided hemiparesis , he underwent transoral surgical exploration , with anterior decompression and odontoidectomy . histologic examination of the surgical material revealed granulation tissue , fibrosis , and chronic inflammation , consistent with abscess formation with invasion and compression of the spinal cord and bone . this case suggests that nonreducible rotational head tilt to the side opposite the side of lateral mass collapse should raise the suspicion of a possible infection . 
risk factors for transmission of hepatitis b virus to gambian children [ published erratum appears in lancet 1990 dec 22-29 ; 336 ( 8730 ) :1596 ] risk factors for hepatitis b virus transmission were examined in 973 gambian children aged 6 months to 5 years . 33 % had evidence of infection with hepatitis b virus and a third of these were carriers . a significant association was found between infection and tropical ulcer scars , and between e antigenaemia and the presence of bedbugs in each child 's bed . there was no association between infection and traditional scarring , circumcision , or injections . skin disease and arthropods are the two most likely modes of transmission of hepatitis b virus between children in west africa . 
reactions of first-year medical students to their initial encounter with a cadaver in the dissecting room . this study reports the results of a 1986 questionnaire survey of 100 first-year medical students regarding their preparation for and reactions to their first encounter with a human cadaver in the dissecting room . the students were aware of psychological and physical reactions to this experience , and although they felt adequately prepared prior to the class , expressed a desire for greater preparation afterwards , particularly through more discussion of the experience with the anatomy staff . a surprising number of the students ( 62 ) had had prior exposure to a dead human body , which was a significant influence upon their reactions . the results of this study suggest a need for improving both the preparation for coping with dissection and the follow-up opportunities for dealing with professional and emotional issues raised during human dissection . 
impact of maternal hiv infection on obstetrical and early neonatal outcome . in a case-control study of 177 hiv-seropositive and 326 seronegative women and their newborns in nairobi , kenya , maternal hiv infection at term was independently associated with travel to other african countries [ odds ratio ( or ) 4.9 , p less than 0.0001 ] , history of a blood transfusion since 1980 ( or 3.5 , p = 0.01 ) , history of more than one sexual partner in the previous 5 years ( or 1.8 , p = 0.02 ) and unmarried status ( or 1.8 , p = 0.02 ) . neonates of hiv-positive and hiv-negative women differed little with respect to occurrence of congenital malformations , stillbirths , in-hospital mortality , sex , apgar score , or gestational age . however , the mean birth weight of singleton neonates of hiv-positive women was significantly lower than that of controls ( 3090 versus 3220 g , p = 0.005 ) , and birth weight was less than 2500 g in 9 % of cases and 3 % of controls ( or 3.0 , p = 0.007 ) . among neonates of hiv-seropositive women , birth weight was less than 2500 g in 17 % if mothers were symptomatic and 6 % if mothers were asymptomatic ( or 3.4 , p = 0.08 ) . 
hemoglobin montreal : a new variant with an extended beta chain due to a deletion of asp , gly , leu at positions 73 , 74 , and 75 , and an insertion of ala , arg , cys , gln at the same location . the unstable hemoglobin montreal with a deletion of three amino acid residues ( asp , gly , leu ) at positions 73 , 74 , and 75 of the beta chain and an insertion of four residues ( ala , arg , cys , gln ) at the same location was observed in a 7-year-old canadian boy suffering from a moderate hemolytic anemia . the introduction of an extra amino acid residue and of other changes in the crevice where the heme group is located is the likely cause of the instability of this hemoglobin variant . the above listed changes were detected through analyses of tryptic peptides of the beta-montreal chain , sequencing of amplified dna , and hybridization of amplified dna with appropriate , 32p-labeled , oligonucleotide probes . it is suggested that a mispairing involving the agtg sequences at codons 66 and 67 and at codons 72 and 73 of the normal beta gene caused a repetition of a 16-bp segment , while a deletion of 10 nucleotides due to recombination or slippage followed by a second short deletion during dna repair resulted in the modified sequence of the beta-montreal gene . 
use of leukocyte-depleted platelet concentrates for the prevention of refractoriness and primary hla alloimmunization : a prospective , randomized trial . compared with conventional transfusion regimes a strong reduction in hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions is obtained when both red blood cell concentrates ( rbcs ) and platelet concentrates ( pcs ) are depleted of leukocytes by filtration . because most of the leukocyte contamination is introduced by transfusion of rbcs , filtration of rbcs appears rational , but uncertainty exists regarding the degree of leukocyte-depletion of pcs needed for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness . we conducted a prospective trial and randomized patients with acute leukemia to receive leukocyte-depleted pcs prepared either by centrifugation ( mean leukocyte count 35 x 10 ( 6 ) / pc of 6 u ) or by filtration ( mean leukocyte count less than 5 x 10 ( 6 ) / pc of 6 u ) . both groups received rbcs that were filtered after prior removal of the buffy coat . clinical refractoriness occurred in 46 % ( 12 of 26 ) of the evaluable patients that were transfused with centrifuged pcs and only in 11 % ( 3 of 27 ) in the filtered group ( p less than .005 ) . de novo anti-hla antibodies were detected in 42 % ( 11 of 26 ) patients in the centrifuged group and only in 7 % ( 2 of 27 ) of the patients receiving filtered pcs ( p less than .004 ) . in 8 of 11 alloimmunized patients in the centrifuged group antibodies were detected in the first 4 weeks of transfusion therapy while none of the patients in the filtered group became immunized against hla antigens during that period . we conclude that for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions from random donors , both rbcs and pcs have to be leukocyte-depleted by filtration . 
high risk of severe bleeding in aged patients with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura . the purpose of this study was to estimate the incidence and to establish which factors were associated with an increased risk of hemorrhagic complications in an historic cohort of 117 consecutive and unselected patients with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ( itp ) . sixty-eight patients ( 58 % ) underwent medical treatment and/or splenectomy and 33 ( 48 % of treated ) achieved a complete stable remission . at equivalent platelet count the incidence of major hemorrhagic complications was significantly higher in aged ( greater than 60 years ) than in younger ( less than 40 years ) patients ( 10.4 % v 0.4 % / pt-y , relative risk = 28.9 , p less than .01 ) . a previous hemorrhagic event was identified as another major risk factor for hemorrhage ( relative risk = 27.5 , p less than .0005 ) , while hypertension and underlying disorders had no influence . we conclude that age more than 60 years and a previous history of bleeding are major risk factors for severe hemorrhages in adults with itp . 
tired , weak , or in need of rest : fatigue among general practice attenders objectives -- to determine the prevalence and associations of symptoms of fatigue . design -- questionnaire survey . setting -- london general practice . participants -- 611 general practice attenders . main outcome measures -- scores on a fatigue questionnaire and reasons given for fatigue . results -- 10.2 % of men ( 17/167 ) and 10.6 % of women ( 47/444 ) had substantial fatigue for one month or more . age , occupation , and marital status exerted minor effects . subjects attributed fatigue equally to physical and non-physical causes . physical ill health , including viral infection , was associated with more severe fatigue . women rather than men blamed family responsibilities for their fatigue . the profile of persistent fatigue did not differ from that of short duration . only one person met criteria for the chronic fatigue syndrome . conclusions -- fatigue is a common complaint among general practice attenders and can be severe . patients may attribute this to physical , psychological , and social stress . 
the role of etoposide in the treatment of poorly differentiated carcinoma of unknown primary site . patients with poorly differentiated carcinoma ( pdc ) or poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma ( pda ) of unknown primary site comprise 25 % to 35 % of the patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site . some of these patients have neoplasms that are highly responsive to combination chemotherapy , and a minority have potentially curable tumors . between 1978 and 1982 , 68 patients were treated with combination chemotherapy ( most received cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin [ pvb ] with or without doxorubicin ) . thirty-eight patients ( 56 % ) responded to treatment , with 15 ( 22 % ) complete responder ( cr ) and 9 ( 13 % ) long-term , disease-free survivors . since that time , we have incorporated etoposide into the treatment of these patients because of its synergism with cisplatin and its great activity against several other neoplasms , including germ cell tumors . seventeen patients with pdc of unknown primary site received salvage therapy with etoposide and cisplatin after failing pvb . ten of these patients had partial responses ( pr ) , with a median response duration of 5 months ( range , 2 to 12 months ) . thirty-two previously untreated patients with pdc received etoposide and cisplatin combinations as initial treatment . eighteen of 30 evaluable patients ( 60 % ) responded to therapy , and 11 patients ( 37 % ) had cr . seven patients remain disease-free 39 to 63 months after the completion of therapy . etoposide is an active drug in the treatment of pdc of unknown primary site . preliminary results indicate that initial treatment with etoposide and cisplatin combinations produces results equivalent to or superior to those achieved with pvb . 
adenine nucleotide changes in kidney , liver , and small intestine during different forms of ischemic injury . the purpose of this study was to better characterize renal adenine nucleotide pool responses to different forms of shock , contrast the changes to those found in other intra-abdominal organs ( the liver and small intestine ) , and assess whether these changes are closely mimicked by those produced by renal arterial occlusion , the usual method used to study ischemic acute renal failure . rats were subjected to hemorrhagic shock , septic shock , or cardiopulmonary shock of varying severities and durations . the liver consistently had the greatest energy depletion , followed by the kidney , and then the small intestine . however , only the kidney developed clear morphological damage ( s3 brush border sloughing ) . kidney adenylate pools were better preserved during septic shock and cardiopulmonary shock than during hemorrhagic shock despite comparable blood pressures . only profound hemorrhagic shock ( 35-40 mm hg for 25 minutes ) decreased total adenylate pools ( atp + adp + amp ) . however , the degree of renal catabolite ( nucleosides plus purine base ) accumulation did not correlate with the amount of renal total adenine nucleotide depletion , partially because circulating catabolites contributed to intrarenal catabolite pools . purine base/uric acid ratios differed among shocked organs , consistent with different degrees of xanthine oxidase activity ( small intestine greater than liver greater than kidney ) . renal morphological damage decreased during the immediate ( 0-30 minutes ) postshock period , and the extent of this improvement was not altered by xanthine oxidase inhibition ( oxypurinol ) , suggesting that the immediate postshock period is not one of serious oxidative injury . shock , in comparison with renal arterial occlusion , caused only modest atp loss/catabolite accumulation , very low purine base/uric acid ratios , and no immediate-reperfusion ( 0-30 minutes ) resynthesis of the total adenylate pool . thus , ischemia-induced renal adenylate changes may differ considerably , depending on the nature of the ischemic event . 
restoration by insulin of impaired prostaglandin e1/i2 receptor activity of platelets in acute ischemic heart disease . treatment of normal platelet-rich plasma with a physiological amount of insulin ( 100 microunits/ml , optimum concentration ) for 3 hours at 23 degrees c stimulated the binding of prostaglandin e1 by more than twofold ( 3,940 + / - 250 sites/10 ( 8 ) platelets ) compared with the nontreated , control platelet-rich plasma ( 1,590 + / - 265 sites/10 ( 8 ) platelets ) . after platelet-rich plasma from patients with acute ischemic heart disease ( n = 43 ) , whose platelets showed impaired prostaglandin e1/i2 receptor activity ( 850 + / - 100 sites/10 ( 8 ) platelets ) , was incubated with insulin ( optimum amounts varied from 100 to 200 microunits/ml ) , the binding of the prostanoid was restored to normal levels ( 1,790 + / - 140 sites/10 ( 8 ) platelets ) in 75 % of the cases . twenty-five percent of the patients did not respond to the stimulatory effect of insulin . the increased binding of the prostanoid to the insulin-treated platelets also resulted in increased cyclic amp levels both in normal subjects ( 44.14 + / - 3.1 pmol/10 ( 8 ) [ insulin-treated ] platelets versus 16.35 + / - 2.91 pmol/10 ( 8 ) [ control ] platelets ) and in patients with acute ischemic heart disease ( 23.87 + / - 4.1 pmol/10 ( 8 ) [ insulin-treated ] platelets versus 7.70 + / - 2.0 pmol/10 ( 8 ) [ control ] platelets ) by the prostanoid ( 1.0 microm ) . the treatment of platelet-rich plasma with the hormone decreased the minimum inhibitory concentration of the prostanoid from 34 + / - 14 to 15 + / - 9 nm ( p less than 0.001 ) in the case of normal volunteers and from 49 + / - 15 to 32 + / - 11 nm ( p = 0.002 ) in the case of " responder " patients . insulin did not produce any effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation by the prostaglandin in " nonresponder " patients . in the follow-up study , although the stimulatory effects of insulin on platelets from responder patients were improved to normal levels , the platelets from the nonresponder patients remained persistently unresponsive to the effect of the hormone . 
nd : yag laser with sapphire tip combined with balloon angioplasty in peripheral arterial occlusions . long-term results in 167 patients with complete occlusion ( greater than 3 cm ) of the femoropopliteal artery , percutaneous transluminal laser angioplasty ( ptla ) was performed after an unsuccessful attempt at crossing with a guide wire and was immediately followed by balloon dilatation . an nd-yag laser and an optical fiber delivery system with a sapphire tip serving as a contact probe were used for ptla . in 132 of 167 ( 79 % ) patients , the occluded segment was successfully reopened . clinical symptoms improved in 126 of 167 ( 75 % ) patients . ptla was unsuccessful in 35 patients , and in 15 of these , injury of the vessel wall occurred . in one patient , surgical drainage of a large hematoma became necessary . all patients in whom recanalization had been achieved were randomized to receive long-term treatment with either phenprocumarol or acetylsalicylic acid ( asa ) plus dipyridamole to prevent rethrombosis . at 36 months of follow-up , the cumulative patency rate ( cpr ) was 63 % . a complete reobstruction in 32 patients ( 24 % ) and a partial reobstruction in 15 patients ( 11 % ) were found angiographically . the cpr after 36 months was significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) in patients younger than 60 years of age ( 54 % ) than in patients older than 60 ( 68 % ) ; it was also significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) in patients with reduced peripheral runoff ( 55 % ) due to obstructed arteries of the lower leg than in patients with unaffected runoff ( 73 % ) . the cpr was 65 % in recanalized segments shorter than 7 cm and was 62 % in recanalized segments longer than 7 cm . 
clinical experience with the palmaz-schatz coronary stent . initial results of a multicenter study . stenting of native coronary arteries with a balloon-expandable stent was attempted in 226 patients after elective angioplasty . delivery of the device was successful in 213 ( 94 % ) of the patients . of these , 39 received aspirin and dipyridamole only ( group 1 ) and 174 received aspirin , dipyridamole , and warfarin for 1-3 months ( group 2 ) . there was no abrupt closure ( less than or equal to 1 day ) or perioperative death in either group . in-hospital or perioperative complications in group 1 compared with group 2 were as follows : subacute closure ( 1-14 days ) , seven ( 18 % ) patients versus one ( 0.6 % ) patient , respectively , p less than 0.0001 ; myocardial infarction , five ( 13 % ) patients versus one ( 0.6 % ) patient , respectively ; condition requiring urgent bypass surgery , one ( 2.5 % ) patient versus no patients , respectively . thus , the incidence of major complications such as death , myocardial infarction , or a condition requiring urgent bypass surgery was 15 % in group 1 and 0.6 % in group 2 . clinical follow-up revealed that 92 % of the patients were asymptomatic at 3 months after stenting compared with 6 % before stenting ( p less than 0.0001 ) . of the 13 patients who were symptomatic , nine underwent cardiac catheterization and , ultimately , successful elective coronary angioplasty or bypass surgery . we conclude that a high delivery success rate can be expected with this device and that clinical thrombosis is less frequent in anticoagulated patients than in nonanticoagulated patients . furthermore , in this selected patient population , coronary stenting results in a low incidence of in-hospital and perioperative complications . clinical success , defined by absence of symptoms , appears to be sustained at 3 months . 
doppler echocardiographic assessment of the st. jude medical prosthetic valve in the aortic position using the continuity equation . to test whether the continuity equation can be applied to the noninvasive assessment of prosthetic aortic valve function , doppler echocardiography was performed in 67 patients ( mean age , 58 + / - 14 years ) within 10 + / - 6 days after valve replacement with st. jude medical valves . all patients were clinically stable and without evidence of valve dysfunction . valve size ranged from 19 to 31 mm , and ejection fraction ranged from 30 % to 75 % . with the parasternal long-axis view , the left ventricular outflow diameter measured just proximal to the prosthetic valve correlated well with valve size ( r = 0.92 ) . doppler-derived maximal gradients ranged from 9 to 71 mm hg . effective prosthetic aortic valve area by the continuity equation ranged between 0.73 cm2 for a 19-mm valve and 4.23 cm2 for a 31-mm valve . with analysis of variance , effective orifice area differentiated various valve sizes ( p less than 10 ( -14 ) ) better than did gradients alone ( p = 0.003 ) and correlated better with actual valve orifice area ( r = 0.83 versus - 0.40 ) . a doppler velocity index , the ratio of peak velocity in the left ventricular outflow to that of the aortic jet , averaged 0.41 + / - 0.09 and was less dependent on valve size ( r = 0.43 ) . thus , the continuity equation can be applied to the assessment of prosthetic st. jude valves in the aortic position . by accounting for flow through the valve , it provides an improved assessment over the sole use of gradients in the evaluation of prosthetic valve function . 
influence of hypoxia on adrenergic modulation of triggered activity in isolated adult canine myocytes . although findings from several reports suggest that nonreentrant or focal mechanisms contribute to the genesis of arrhythmias during early ischemia , the contribution of triggered activity arising from early or delayed afterdepolarizations has not been resolved . we have previously demonstrated that beta - but not alpha-adrenergic stimulation induces afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in isolated normoxic myocytes . in the present study , the influence of the extent of cellular derangements as well as increases in [ k + ] o on alpha - and beta-adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity was evaluated . adult canine myocytes were exposed to one of the following experimental conditions with simultaneous intracellular transmembrane action potential recordings : 1 ) low po2 ( less than 10 mm hg , obtained using a specially designed hypoxic chamber ) and low ( 6.8 ) ph ; 2 ) low po2 , low ph , and high extracellular potassium ( [ k + ] o ) ( 10 mm ) ; or 3 ) severe metabolic inhibition with cyanide ( 10 ( -6 ) m ) . cells from each group were superfused with either the alpha-agonist phenylephrine ( 10 ( -5 ) or 10 ( -7 ) m , with 10 ( -5 ) m nadolol ) or the beta-agonist isoproterenol ( 10 ( -6 ) m ) . moderate changes in the action potentials were observed under conditions 1 and 2 ( moderate hypoxia ) , whereas marked but reversible changes were observed with cyanide ( severe metabolic inhibition ) . during moderate hypoxia in normal [ k + ] o , delayed afterdepolarizations or triggered activity were elicited by both alpha - ( 12 of 13 cells ) and beta-adrenergic ( five of five cells ) stimulation . increasing [ k + ] o during moderate hypoxia completely abolished the afterdepolarizations induced by alpha-adrenergic stimulation and prevented the occurrence of triggered activity . in contrast , the influence of beta-adrenergic stimulation was only attenuated by an increase in [ k + ] o. exposure to cyanide completely prevented the induction of afterdepolarizations and triggered activity by both alpha - and beta-adrenergic stimulation . our findings indicate that moderate hypoxia in normal [ k + ] o is associated with the development of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity . in contrast , accumulation of [ k + ] o or severe impairment of cellular metabolism is accompanied by inhibition of adrenergic-mediated afterdepolarizations and triggered activity . 
in vitro and in vivo effects within the coronary sinus of nonarcing and arcing shocks using a new system of low-energy dc ablation . dc shocks within the coronary sinus have been abandoned because of the risk of cardiac rupture and tamponade . catheter ablation using dc energy to electrodes straddling the ostium of the coronary sinus , when used clinically , has been reported to result in cardiac tamponade in as many as 16 % of patients . a new system of energy delivery maximizes voltage while decreasing the undesirable effects caused by barotrauma . this system includes 1 ) a low-energy ablation power supply with a brief time-constant capacitive discharge that delivers up to 40 j and 3,000 v and 2 ) a low-energy ablation catheter with a contoured distal electrode . we performed in vitro and in vivo studies of this new system and compared arcing shocks with nonarcing shocks . ablations were performed using unipolar distal shocks ( d ) and unipolar shocks to both electrodes made electrically common ( p-d ) . in vitro studies were done in a large tank filled with physiological saline while recording voltage , current , and pressure . high-speed cinematography ( 32,000 frames/sec ) of shocks of 10-40 j permitted detailed analysis of the vapor globe . anodal shocks of less than 20 j showed no arcing or only minimal vapor globe formation . for d and p-d anodal shocks of 40 j , the diameters of the vapor globe were 31 and 22 mm , respectively , corresponding to pressure recordings of 11 and 4.9 atm . the pressure rise lasted less than 50 mu sec . in vivo studies involved 18 dogs that received nonarcing shocks ( one to six shocks of 15 j ) and 18 dogs that received arcing shocks ( one to three shocks of 40 j ) . each group was divided between d and p-d shocks ; catheter ablation was performed at a mean + / - sem distance of 2.94 + / - 0.92 cm within the coronary sinus . all dogs tolerated the procedure without cardiac rupture or tamponade . when killed 2-4 days later , the dogs had edema and hyperemia or hemorrhage in the area of the coronary sinus . we compared the effects of multiple ( three to six ) nonarcing shocks with the effects of one to three arcing shocks . disruption or rupture of the coronary sinus within the epicardial fat space occurred in two of 12 dogs ( 17 % ) with multiple nonarcing shocks but in 13 of 18 dogs ( 72 % ) with arcing shocks ( p less than 0.003 ) . occlusion of the coronary sinus occurred in two of 12 dogs ( 17 % ) with multiple nonarcing shocks and in nine of 18 dogs ( 50 % ) with arcing shocks ( p less than 0.06 ) . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
tuberculous tenosynovitis of the wrist . two case reports . tuberculosis was first described in 1756 by acrel in a case report . subsequent reports of musculoskeletal tuberculosis documented the uncommon occurrence of hand and wrist involvement . the two cases presented here demonstrate the difficulty in eradicating the organism even with modern regimens of chemotherapy . intraoperative gram 's stain and frozen sections were useful to rule out other etiologies . firm diagnosis must be established by tissue culture . the first case appeared cured after thorough initial debridement and had no recurrence for 36 years . while recurrences are common in patients treated with debridement alone , most appear within one year after the index procedure . the amount of time that elapsed in this case is unusual and serves as a sobering reminder that tuberculosis may recur at a time distant from the initial procedure . the second patient had tuberculosis diagnosed elsewhere and was treated twice with antituberculous chemotherapy . although the first course of therapy for six months may have been inadequate , the second course with multiple drugs for 18 months would certainly be considered adequate ; yet he had a recurrence in his wrist eight months after completing treatment . these two cases illustrate the fastidious nature of the mycobacterium tuberculosis organism and the need for a combined treatment protocol of meticulous surgical debridement and combined chemotherapy . 
extensor tendon rupture after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid positive ulnar variance . rupture of the extensor tendon after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid , positive ulnar variance is uncommon . eight cases were seen in the last five years . they included five men and three women , whose ages ranged from 54 to 82 years ( average , 70 years ) . in all the cases , roentgenograms revealed osteoarthrotic changes in the wrist and dorsal subluxation or dislocation of the ulnar heads . seven cases had operations . friction with the dorsally subluxated or dislocated ulnar head and the osteophytes surrounding it caused these tendons to rupture . it was impossible to use end-to-end sutures , so tendon transfers or tendon grafts were performed . the patients were evaluated one to four years after surgery . three patients complained of some disability in their daily lives , notably , limited flexion of their fingers . it is important that during surgery the reconstructed tendons should not be strained excessively . 
treatment of scaphoid nonunion by radical curettage , trapezoidal iliac crest bone graft , and internal fixation with a herbert screw . ten adult male patients with scaphoid nonunions were treated by radical curettage , trapezoidal iliac crest bone grafting , and internal fixation with a herbert screw . the mean patient age was 24.7 years , and the mean duration of the nonunion before surgery was 37.3 months . mean follow-up time was 30.4 months . nine of the ten nonunions healed , although one patient required a second bone-grafting procedure . the mean postoperative grip strength was 45.0 kg , and the mean postoperative pinch strength was 11.5 kg . the mean postoperative range of motion was volar flexion , 76.1 degrees ; dorsiflexion , 74.2 degrees ; radial deviation , 22.1 degrees ; and ulnar deviation , 40.1 degrees . the scapholunate angle decreased from a mean of 72.8 degrees preoperatively to 60.6 degrees postoperatively ( p less than 0.025 ) . the mean carpal index was 0.57 postoperatively . mean scaphoid length increased postoperatively and was within 0.2 mm of the opposite ( normal ) scaphoid in every patient except the single patient with a persistent nonunion ( p less than 0.025 ) . all patients returned to work ( eight as laborers ) , and nine of ten wrists were subjectively rated as good or excellent . the results of the series suggests that treatment of displaced scaphoid nonunion by radical curettage , trapezoidal iliac crest bone grafting , and internal fixation with a herbert screw is an effective method of treatment that reconstitutes scaphoid anatomy and promotes excellent wrist function . 
somatosensory-evoked potential monitored during total hip arthroplasty . one hundred consecutive patients were monitored using somatosensory-evoked potential ( sep ) monitoring to detect intraoperative sciatic nerve compromise during total hip arthroplasty . the peroneal nerve was stimulated using the contralateral extremity to rule out systemic influences on the sep tracings . loss of amplitude or an increase in latency of greater than 10 % was considered significant . of the 18 patients who exhibited changes that met these criteria , 16 were female . two patients had loss of amplitude of the tracings at the time of closure , and both of these patients exhibited postoperative sciatic nerve palsies . there were no false negatives . femoral reaming and reduction are the surgical events most commonly associated with nerve reactions . patients who have had prior hip procedures appear to be at higher risk . there was no correlation with intraoperative sep changes and age , weight , surgical approach , or leg lengthening . compared with unmonitored patients , there was no reduction in the incidence of sciatic palsy . 
growth disturbance in legg-calve-perthes disease and the consequences of surgical treatment . seventy-two patients with legg-calve-perthes disease were studied to assess the interference with proximal femoral growth as a result of the disease itself and of surgical treatment . twenty-five patients were treated nonoperatively , 20 were treated by femoral varus derotation osteotomy , and 27 by innominate osteotomy . all patients were studied clinically for evidence of abductor weakness and leg-length discrepancy . they were also studied roentgenographically for evidence of femoral head deformity and trochanteric overgrowth . the overall results showed a 6 % incidence of leg-length discrepancy greater than 2 cm after both operative and nonoperative treatment . the articulo-trochanteric distance ( atd ) was less than +5 mm in 23 % of patients , of which 43 % had a positive trendelenburg sign . a significantly lower mean atd was found in patients treated by femoral varus osteotomy , which should be avoided in patients over eight years of age . the study also demonstrated a strong association between coxa magna and growth disturbance of the proximal femoral physis manifesting itself as either a leg-length discrepancy or as a low atd . the significant effects of growth disturbance after treatment must be considered , as well as the sphericity of the healed femoral head , in the final assessment in legg-calve-perthes disease . 
total hip arthroplasty in ankylosing spondylitis . total hip arthroplasty was performed on 29 hips in 19 patients diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis over a 13-year period . the results were analyzed retrospectively with an average follow-up period of more than four years . complete pain relief was achieved in 97 % , and significant gains were made in ambulatory capacity . the limited gains in total range of motion ( average improvement 75 degrees ) were felt to be primarily due to the high incidence of brooker class iii and iv myositis ossificans ( 23 % ) and long-standing soft tissue contractures . 
the appearance of the piriformis muscle syndrome in computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging . a case report and review of the literature . the piriformis syndrome ( ps ) is a controversial cause of hip pain because of the lack of objective findings to support the diagnosis . computed tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging revealed ps in a 27-year-old woman . this case may be one of the first reports in the literature on a piriformis muscle enlargement documented by ct and mr imaging . 
diagnosis of acute rupture of the quadriceps tendon by magnetic resonance imaging . a case report . quadriceps tendon rupture occurred in a 56-year-old man receiving anticoagulant therapy . the diagnosis was inconclusive until magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) was used to delineate the rupture site clearly . mri is a useful adjunct to diagnosis of soft-tissue injuries in cases in which swelling or other soft-tissue abnormalities obscure examination or preclude the use of more routine diagnostic modalities . 
the effects of smoking on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram in normal subjects . tobacco smoking increases the risk of sudden cardiac death , possibly by altering the substrate for propagation or sustainment of ventricular tachyarrhythmias . to test this hypothesis , 15 long-term smokers without known coronary artery disease abstained from tobacco smoking for 12 h , after which they underwent saecg before , 15 min after and 30 min after smoking two cigarettes . other than minor lengthening of filtered qrs duration , no significant change in time-domain saecg parameters was noted . we conclude that late potentials are not produced by cigarette smoking and that ventricular arrhythmia substrate as measured by saecg variables is not worsened in long-term smokers without evidence of coronary artery disease . 
cardiac rhabdomyoma . rare cause of fetal death . two cases of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and fetal death associated with cardiac rhabdomyoma are reported . case 1 presented with fetal supraventricular tachycardia , and cardiac rhabdomyoma was accurately diagnosed by fetal echocardiography . autopsy revealed multiple rhabdomyomata involving the right atrial free wall , the sinoatrial node , and the left ventricle . the left circumflex coronary artery was extrinsically compressed by adjacent tumor tissue , causing left ventricular myocardial infarction . case 2 had a unique , pedunculated , ball-like rhabdomyoma that almost totally occluded the mitral orifice . the causes of fetal death in patients with cardiac rhabdomyoma are analyzed and the possibility of fetal surgical management is proposed . 
endotoxemia in human septic shock . to evaluate the incidence , pattern and clinical importance of endotoxemia in septic shock , frequent , serial endotoxin determinations were made prospectively in patients with shock . detectable endotoxin occurred in 43 of 100 patients with septic shock , but in only one of ten patients with shock due to nonseptic causes . during septic shock , endotoxemia frequently occurred in the absence of gram-negative bacteremia . using a logistic regression model , multiple organ failure occurred 10.3 times more frequently and depression of left ventricular ejection fraction ( less than or equal to 45 percent ) 4.8 times more frequently in endotoxemic patients . in patients with positive blood cultures , endotoxemia was associated with a high mortality . we conclude that endotoxemia occurs frequently in septic shock and is associated with severe manifestations of this syndrome , including cardiac depression and multiple organ failure . this study suggests that endotoxin is an important mediator of septic shock and supports efforts to develop anti-endotoxin therapies for treating patients with this disease . 
peripheral nerve function in sepsis and multiple organ failure forty-three patients who had sepsis and multiple organ failure ( critical illness ) were studied prospectively to determine the incidence and severity of peripheral nerve function and to correlate such function with a number of variables . electrophysiologic studies indicated a primary axonal degeneration of motor and sensory fibers in 30 ( 70 percent ) . fifteen ( 30 percent ) had the clinical signs of difficulty in weaning from assisted ventilation , weakness of limb muscles , and reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes . full recovery from the polyneuropathy occurred among the 23 ( 53 percent ) who survived , except three who had a very severe polyneuropathy . a peripheral nerve function index , computed from electrophysiologic measurements , showed statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) negative correlations with the time in the critical care unit , and the serum glucose value ; the serum albumin level showed a positive correlation . multiple regression analyses indicated all three factors accounted for 47 percent ( r2 = 0.4678 ) of all potential variables . in a separate analysis , the nerve function index correlated with the amplitude of the diaphragm compound muscle action potential ( p less than 0.01 ) . the results were consistent with the polyneuropathy being due to the same mechanisms that are currently postulated to cause dysfunction in this syndrome of other organ systems ( including the neuromuscular respiratory system ) . 
a longitudinal study of respiratory symptoms in a community population sample . correlations with smoking , allergen skin-test reactivity , and serum ige chronic cough and/or phlegm , wheeze in the absence of colds , and rhinitis attributed to allergies are three of the most common respiratory symptoms encountered in community populations . in this study , we have determined the prevalence of these complaints in a random population sample ( n = 1,109 ) using standardized questionnaires at two points in time , eight years apart . cross-sectional prevalence and changes in symptom occurrence have been correlated with smoking status , allergen skin test reactivity , and total serum ige levels . our objective was to determine the individual and combined influence of these three variables on symptom prevalence . initially , 19.2 percent of the population admitted to wheeze , 17.9 percent to cough , and 44.1 percent to allergic rhinitis . cough and wheeze prevalence changed little over the eight-year period , while rhinitis increased 11 percent by the second survey . the occurrence of chronic cough was strongly correlated with smoking , and was not further influenced by either allergen skin reactivity or ige level . conversely , rhinitis prevalence was related to skin test reactivity with no additional association with smoking or ige level . the occurrence of wheeze in the absence of colds was associated with both smoking and allergen skin reactivity . among smokers , the prevalence was over 30 percent and was similar in both skin test positive ( stp ) and skin test negative ( stn ) individuals . however , on both surveys , stp ex-smokers and nonsmokers had significantly more wheeze than those who were stn . while the prevalence of wheeze in stn nonsmokers was low ( 6.8 percent ) , an ige-wheeze relationship was also suggested on the second survey . in addition to these cross-sectional symptom relationships , changes in either smoking status or allergen skin reactivity during the study period were associated with changes in the prevalence of each symptom . 
lightning injury with lung bleeding in a tracheotomized patient . a 68-year-old man , who had undergone laryngectomy six months earlier , was struck by lightning and developed pulmonary hemorrhage . this was attributed to pulmonary barotrauma due to a lightning blast via his tracheostoma . 
obliterative bronchiolitis : virus induced ? this report describes a 28-year-old patient with an acute onset of respiratory symptoms associated with clinical and roentgenographic features of an interstitial lung disease which proved fatal . the entity of bronchiolitis obliterans , which was diagnosed on transbronchial biopsy , is discussed , with particular emphasis on the postinfectious type . 
tension pneumothorax secondary to a gastropleural fistula in a traumatic diaphragmatic hernia . we report a case of tension pneumothorax due to a gastropleural fistula resulting from perforation of the stomach in a traumatic diaphragmatic hernia . awareness of perforation of strangulated stomach or bowel in a diaphragmatic hernia as a cause of pneumothorax , with or without tension physiology , in a patient with a history of trauma is important so that surgical repair can be undertaken without delay . 
magnetic resonance imaging -- the evaluation of choice in residual shunt after congenital heart disease surgery ? accurate anatomic diagnosis presents a dilemma in patients with residual shunt after corrective surgery for congenital heart disease . we describe a patient who , after atrial septal defect repair , developed dyspnea and central cyanosis despite normal pulmonary arterial pressures and right heart chamber size . a role for early mri is suggested . 
snoring ( i ) . daytime sleepiness in regular heavy snorers . fifteen men , mean ( means ) age 44 years , were investigated . their means body mass index was 21.9 kg/m2 , and all of them had a respiratory disturbance index below 5 and had good nocturnal oxygen saturation . the subjects were monitored several nights both with and without the following devices : a tight-fitting facial mask , a pneumotachometer , and an esophageal balloon . they were also monitored with and without nasal continuous positive airway pressure . the multiple sleep latency test was administered after three of the experimental nights ( after the baseline nights and after the second nasal cpap night ) . determination of short eeg arousals during nocturnal sleep , which lasted 2 to 10 s , was performed . the relationship between short eeg arousals , the esophageal pressure nadir , and airflow decrease was investigated . we also determined the relationship between clinical reporting of decrease in daytime alertness and mslt results , and the relationship between mslt results and the frequency of eeg arousals . the monitoring indicated that heavy snorers may present significant increase in pes nadir with abrupt decrease in flow leading to eeg arousals . the frequency at which eeg arousals occur has an impact on mslt scores . nasal cpap improves mslt scores and eliminates these respiration-related eeg arousals . some heavy snorers without obstructive sleep apnea syndrome may be at risk of having a decrease in daytime alertness . 
pharyngeal volume in asymptomatic snorers compared with nonsnoring volunteers . study objective : to determine if asymptomatic snorers have smaller pharyngeal volumes than age - and height-matched nonsnorers . design : we recruited asymptomatic heavy snorers and nonsnorers for a study . each snorer was matched by age ( + / - 3 years ) and height ( + / - 2 inches ) with a nonsnorer . the nonsnorers were required to be near ideal body weight . all volunteers underwent overnight polysomnography , pulmonary function testing , and magnetic resonance imaging of the pharynx while awake . the volume of the pharynx was determined by a computer with data input from a digitizing instrument . setting : veterans administration hospital and university of florida teaching hospital participants : nine volunteers were recruited for both the snorer and nonsnorer groups . each participant was paid $ 50 . there were no interventions . measurements and results : there were no differences in sleep variables between the two groups . there was also no significant difference between pharyngeal volumes for the two groups . conclusions : the volume of the pharynx in asymptomatic snorers is similar to the volume in age - and height-matched nonsnorers . 
complications of general anesthesia for nd : yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors . we studied the incidence and mechanisms of cardiovascular complications and postoperative respiratory insufficiency associated with ga and nd : yag laser endobronchial tumor resection . the records of 73 patients undergoing 87 procedures were reviewed . preoperative status , anesthetic methods and perioperative complications were analyzed by multiple regression to determine predictors of outcome . twenty-three percent of patients had greater than 90 percent mainstem bronchus obstruction . longer serum elimination half-life of relaxant drug was significantly correlated with longer duration of mechanical ventilation after neuromuscular blockade reversal . cardiovascular complications were noted in 24 procedures and often required therapeutic intervention . variables predicting cardiovascular complications included longer duration of ga and increasing age . perioperative respiratory and cardiovascular complications are common after ga for nd : yag laser resection . short-acting neuromuscular relaxants , careful assessment prior to postoperative extubation , limiting duration of ga and cardiovascular monitoring are recommended when implementing ga for nd : yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors . 
acute eosinophilic pulmonary disease associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products . a series of four patients with pulmonary infiltrates , pleural effusions , hypoxemia , peripheral eosinophilia , and symptoms of dyspnea , fatigue , and weakness is reported . lung tissue obtained in three patients revealed interstitial pneumonitis , small-to-medium-vessel mixed-cell vasculitis , and alveolar exudate of histiocytes and eosinophils . all patients reported ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products at a time when an association between l-tryptophan and the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome was established . this clinical pattern of pulmonary involvement may be part of the continuum of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the pathophysiology of this syndrome and the relationship with the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products have not yet been identified . 
zollinger-ellison syndrome . relation to helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis and gastric acid secretion . since helicobacter pylori infects the gastric mucosa in most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer , infection with this organism has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this common disease . we postulated that if h. pylori is pathogenic in the usual type of duodenal ulcer , it should be less common when duodenal ulcer has another , specific etiology , such as zollinger-ellison syndrome . gastric mucosa was compared from 18 patients with proven zollinger-ellison syndrome ( 17 of whom had had duodenal ulcer disease ) and 18 controls with chronic duodenal ulcer without such a diagnosis . all subjects , who were matched for age and sex , had undergone elective gastric resections . gastric tissues were stained by hematoxylin-eosin and giemsa and were reviewed by an experienced pathologist who was unaware of the diagnosis . the frequency of h. pylori in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ( 8/18 ) was lower than in controls with duodenal ulcer ( 16/18 ; p less than 0.02 ) . moreover , chronic antral gastritis scores were higher in patients with duodenal ulcer ( p less than 0.01 ) . in zollinger-ellison syndrome , peak acid output was lower in patients positive ( median 22 meq/30 min ) compared to those negative for h. pylori ( median 32 meq/30 min ; p less than 0.02 ) but serum gastrin was correspondingly lower in patients positive for h. pylori ( p less than 0.05 ) . h. pylori infection appears to be more frequent when duodenal ulceration is not associated with another etiology , such as acid hypersecretion in zollinger-ellison syndrome . h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome may also be associated with decreased gastric acid secretion . 
helicobacter pylori and zollinger-ellison syndrome . helicobacter pylori ( previously campylobacter pylori ) is almost invariably associated with chronic duodenal ulcer disease . the relationship between h. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer in zollinger-ellison syndrome is unknown . we investigated the frequency of h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome and also what effect h. pylori infection had on gastric function in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome . h. pylori infection was diagnosed based on a specific serologic ( elisa ) assay based on high-molecular-weight cell-associated proteins of h. pylori . we studied 20 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ; 15 men and 5 women ranging in age from 24 to 71 years , median age 51 . six zollinger-ellison syndrome patients had h. pylori infection compared to 100 consecutive patients with chronic recurrent duodenal ulcer disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . pretreatment basal acid output in zollinger-ellison syndrome patients ranged from 7.9 to 95.0 mmol/hr , median 35.2 . pentagastrin-stimulated maximal acid output ranged from 8.5 to 132 mmol/hr ; median 52.7 . acid secretion was lower in the h. pylori-infected patients than the uninfected patients ( bao 24.5 + / - 6.5 vs 45.4 + / - 6.6 , and mao 44.3 + / - 11.8 vs 67.9 + / - 10.7 , for h. pylori infected vs uninfected patients , respectively ) . the difference in bao was statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . the present results indicate that h. pylori is not a major contributing factor in duodenal ulcer associated with zollinger-ellison syndrome . the association of a reduced bao with h. pylori suggests that these findings may be related . 
visceral perception in health and functional dyspepsia . crossover study of gastric distension with placebo and domperidone . the symptoms of functional dyspepsia are still unexplained . to evaluate the possible role of abnormal visceral perception , we studied the symptomatic responses and the pressure variations during progressive gastric distension in 10 female healthy control subjects ( mean age 33.6 years ) and in 10 female patients with functional dyspepsia ( mean age 35.2 years ) . a rubber balloon was positioned 4 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter ( les ) and inflated with progressively larger volumes of air by steps of 50 ml ; pressures at the gastric fundus and at the les were continuously recorded by perfused manometric catheters . each subject was studied on two separate occasions after randomized double-blind administration of either placebo or 20 mg of domperidone . symptomatic responses and the manometric data were analyzed at the time of the initial recognition of distension ( bloating step ) and at the time of reporting pain or up to a maximum of 700 ml of balloon inflation ( pain or 700-ml step ) . on placebo , the volumes of gastric distension were more than two times lower in patients than in control subjects at the bloating step ( 185 + / - 32 ml vs 470 + / - 40 ml , p = 0.001 ) and at the pain or 700-ml step ( 265 + / - 54 ml vs 600 + / - 34 ml , p less than 0.005 ) , while the pressure gradients ( pressure at inflation steps minus baseline pressure before beginning inflation ) were not statistically different between the two groups . 
bowel dysfunction in fibromyalgia syndrome . fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome frequently coexist . in this study , we utilized a previously validated self-administered questionnaire to assess the prevalence of symptoms of bowel dysfunction and irritable bowel syndrome in 123 patients with fibromyalgia as compared to 54 patients with degenerative joint disease ( djd ) and 46 normal controls . ninety ( 73 % ) of the fibromyalgia patients reported altered bowel function as compared to 20 ( 37 % ) djd patients and none of the normal controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . ninety-nine patients ( 81 % ) reported normal alternating with irregular bowel pattern , and 77 ( 63 % ) had alternating diarrhea and constipation . in contrast , only 24 ( 44 % ) of djd patients and six ( 13 % ) of controls had regular alternating with irregular bowel pattern and only 12 ( 22 % ) of the djd patients and none of the healthy controls had alternating constipation and diarrhea ( p less than 0.01 ) . other bowel dysfunction complaints noted in the fibromyalgia group were abdominal gas ( 59 % ) , nausea ( 21 % ) , diarrhea ( 9 % ) , and constipation ( 12 % ) . seventy-nine ( 64 % ) fibromyalgia patients reported frequent abdominal pain that was stress-related 47 % of the time . laxative use was frequent in the fibromyalgia group ( 19 % ) and absent in the other two groups . fifty percent of fibromyalgia patients , compared to 28 % of djd patients , felt that their bowel complaints were worse during exacerbations of their joint disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . in conclusion , patients with fibromyalgia have a high prevalence of gastrointestinal complaints that should be carefully assessed . if the diagnosis of ibs is confirmed , appropriate treatment may improve patients ' symptoms , although this approach requires further study . 
scintigraphic assessment of leukocyte infiltration in acute pancreatitis using technetium-99m-hexamethyl propylene amine oxine as leukocyte label . the infiltration of leukocytes has been linked to the pathophysiology of complicated or severe pancreatitis . we have tested the ability of leukocyte scintigraphy using technetium-99m-hexamethyl propylene amine oxine ( hm-pao ) as label to demonstrate the localization of leukocytes in the pancreas during acute pancreatitis . twenty-eight patients with acute pancreatitis ( eight with biliary , 13 with alcoholic , and seven with unknown origin ) were studied with leukocyte scintigraphy using planar imaging and single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) . fourteen patients had a mild ( group i ) , ii a severe ( group ii ) , and three a lethal outcome ( group iii ) of pancreatitis . all patients of group iii , six of group ii , and two of group i had a positive leukocyte scan . thus , the sensitivity of leukocyte scintigraphy for the detection of a lethal course of acute pancreatitis was 100 % , of a severe course 54 % , and of a severe or lethal course 64 % . the specificity of a negative scan for a mild pancreatitis was 86 % . comparison of the results of leukocyte scintigraphy with those of contrast enhanced ct showed that six of eight patients with pancreatic necrosis in ct had a positive leukocyte scan , but only five of 20 patients without detectable pancreatic necrosis in ct . in summary , leukocyte infiltration into the pancreas during pancreatitis can be demonstrated by noninvasive leukocyte scintigraphy using technetium-99m-hm-pao as label . a correlation between the severity of the disease and leukocyte infiltration exists . 
pressure measurements from biliary and pancreatic segments of sphincter of oddi . comparison between patients with functional abdominal pain , biliary , or pancreatic disease . using a minimally compliant infusion system and a triple-lumen pressure recording catheter , we obtained endoscopic manometric measurements from both the common bile duct and pancreatic duct segments of the sphincter of oddi ( so ) in 58 patients . fifteen patients ( ages 27-69 ) had the diagnosis of functional abdominal pain , 19 patients ( ages 30-76 ) had partial biliary obstruction , and 24 patients ( ages 15-80 ) had idiopathic acute recurrent pancreatitis . resting ductal pressure was similar in the common bile duct and pancreatic duct in all patient groups . in the group with functional pain , basal so pressure was similar , whether obtained from the common bile duct or pancreatic duct sphincteric segment . eight of 19 patients with partial biliary obstruction had elevated basal so pressure . five of these eight patients had elevated basal so pressure confined exclusively to the common bile duct segment of the sphincter , while three patients had elevated basal so in both segments . conversely seven of 24 patients with acute recurrent pancreatitis had an elevated basal so pressure , with five patients having pressure elevation only in the pancreatic duct segment while two patients had abnormal basal so pressure in both segments . we conclude that selective cannulation of the common bile duct and/or the pancreatic duct during manometric study of the so is necessary in order to diagnose segmental so dysfunction responsible for partial biliary obstruction or episodes of acute recurrent pancreatitis . 
penetration of lanthanum through the main pancreatic duct epithelium in cats following exposure to infected human bile . the main pancreatic duct epithelium acts as a barrier to the diffusion of molecules from the duct lumen into pancreatic acinar and interstitial tissue . we studied sequential ultrastructural characteristics of the loss of epithelial barrier function in the cat using lanthanum , an electron-opaque tracer , following perfusion of the duct from the tail to the duodenum with infected human bile . tight junctions between duct epithelial cells were found to become permeable to the tracer as early as after 15 min of exposure . later , there was progressive disintegration of intercellular junctions and epithelial loss . lanthanum penetrated the duct epithelium exclusively on an intercellular path . loss of barrier function of the pancreatic duct epithelium was consistently associated with subsequent development of acute interstitial edematous pancreatitis . there was no association between the degree of duct epithelial damage and the severity of acute pancreatitis . both bile and a suspension of bacteria alone were not harmful to the pancreas . sequential perfusion produced acute pancreatitis only when at first bile and then the bacterial suspension was perfused . a reversed succession of perfusates produced no morphologic alterations . we conclude : ( 1 ) increased tight junction permeability is an early lesion in acute bile-induced pancreatitis : ( 2 ) loss of duct epithelial barrier function is important for the initiation but not for the severity of the inflammation ; and ( 3 ) bile renders duct epithelial intercellular junctions vulnerable to escherichia coli bacteria . 
genetics of niddm . this brief review discusses the current level of understanding of the role of genetic defects in the etiology of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) and the use of molecular-genetic methods for this study . evidence for genetic susceptibility is strong , and defects in both insulin production and action are suspect . with restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms and genomic sequencing , various candidate loci are being evaluated . evidence that multiple genes are involved is only circumstantial . if niddm is genetically heterogeneous and also influenced by environmental components , population associations and linkage analyses in families may not be as easily interpreted as for diseases involving single major gene defects . 
proximal esophageal ph-metry in patients with ' reflux laryngitis ' . fiberoptic laryngoscopic examinations were performed on 40 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease , 25 of whom had persistent laryngeal symptoms ( dysphonia , cough , globus sensation , frequent throat clearing , or sore throat ) and 15 without laryngeal symptoms who served as disease controls . ten patients with laryngeal symptoms but none of the controls had laryngoscopic findings consistent with reflux laryngitis . dual-site ambulatory ph recordings were obtained with the ph electrodes spaced 15 cm apart and with the proximal sensor positioned just distal to the upper esophageal sphincter . patients in the three groups ( disease controls : group 1 ; patients with symptoms but without laryngoscopic findings : group 2 ; and patients with both laryngeal symptoms and findings : group 3 ) were comparable in terms of age , smoking habit , the presence of esophagitis , and distal esophageal acid exposure . proximal esophageal acid exposure was , however , significantly increased in groups 2 and 3 , and nocturnal proximal esophageal acidification occurred in over half of these patients but in none of the group 1 patients . we conclude that the subset of reflux patients who experience laryngeal symptoms show significantly more proximal esophageal acid exposure ( especially nocturnally ) and often have laryngoscopic findings of posterior laryngitis not observed in control reflux patients . 
partial gastric corpectomy results in hypergastrinemia and development of gastric enterochromaffinlike-cell carcinoids in the rat . studies in the rat have shown that partial gastric corpectomy , in which about 75 % of the acid-producing oxyntic mucosa was removed , leads to markedly reduced acid secretion and a feedback increase in the plasma gastrin levels . ten weeks after operation , the gastric enterochromaffin ( ecl ) - like cell density in the remaining part of the oxyntic mucosa had increased significantly . in the present study , the effects on the gastric ecl cells of lifelong persistent hypergastrinemia induced by partial ( 75 % ) corpectomy have been investigated . seventy-five partially corpectomized rats and 40 control rats were investigated for plasma gastrin and oxyntic mucosal changes in a 124-week study . the partially corpectomized rats showed increased plasma gastrin levels after the operation ; the mean increase compared with the controls was almost 10-fold during the entire study . the remaining oxyntic mucosa of the partially corpectomized rats differed from that of control rats in two respects , showing first general hypertrophy and second a marked hyperplasia of argyrophil ecl cells . the degree and incidence of these changes increased towards the end of the study , i.e. , in the aging rats . an age-related increase in ecl-cell density occurred spontaneously also in the control rats but to a lesser extent than in the partially corpectomized group . ecl-cell carcinoids were found in the oxyntic mucosa of 26 of the 75 partially corpectomized rats . the first carcinoid was found 78 weeks after the beginning of the study . six rats with carcinoids ( 23 % ) were found before week 104 ( 2 years ) and the remainder , 20 ( 77 % ) , were discovered later . no carcinoid tumor was found in the control rats . it is concluded that lifelong hypergastrinemia induced by partial corpectomy leads to the development of ecl-cell carcinoids in the oxyntic mucosa of some rats towards the end of their life span . this observation strongly supports the hypothesis that the gastric ecl-cell carcinoids found in rats treated with antisecretory drugs are caused by long-standing hypergastrinemia developing secondary to inhibition of gastric acid secretion . 
helicobacter pylori infection in pernicious anemia : a prospective controlled study . although some authors believe that helicobacter pylori is the etiologic agent in chronic nonspecific gastritis , it has also been suggested that the bacterium colonizes inflamed mucosa as a secondary event . this study documents the prevalence of h. pylori in 28 patients with pernicious anemia and compares the findings with those of a group of 28 age - , race - , and sex-matched asymptomatic control subjects . all subjects underwent endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric antrum and corpus . a sample of serum was obtained before endoscopy for determination of antibodies ( immunoglobulin a and immunoglobulin g ) to h. pylori . the prevalence of h. pylori ( by biopsy ) in patients with pernicious anemia was significantly less than that in controls ( 11 % vs. 71 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . all patients with pernicious anemia had abnormalities of corpus histology ( inflammation and/or atrophy ) . in addition , 50 % of patients with pernicious anemia had a lymphocytic infiltration of the antrum . all controls with h. pylori had gastritis , 50 % having active chronic gastritis . atrophic changes of the corpus were more commonly found in patients with pernicious anemia ( 75 % vs. 7 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . serology and biopsy results correlated poorly in the patients with pernicious anemia : all 5 patients with positive serology results had negative biopsy results , whereas all 3 patients with positive cultures on biopsy had negative serological studies . in conclusion , patients with pernicious anemia are protected from infection with h. pylori , and h. pylori does not passively colonize mucosa inflamed by an unrelated process . 
polyamines and ornithine decarboxylase during repair of duodenal mucosa after stress in rats . this investigation shows whether polyamines and ornithine decarboxylase have a role in duodenal mucosal repair following stress-induced microscopic damage . rats were fasted for 22 hours , placed in restraint cages , and immersed in water to the xiphoid process for 6 hours . animals were killed either immediately after the period of stress or at 2-hour intervals up to 24 hours thereafter . duodenal mucosa was examined histologically , and ornithine decarboxylase and polyamine levels were measured . ornithine decarboxylase activity was increased significantly up to 6 hours following stress , peaking at 4 hours at a level 10 times the prestress control . by 8 hours , enzyme activity had returned to near normal . increases in mucosal putrescine , spermidine , and spermine content paralleled the changes in ornithine decarboxylase activity and peaked 4 hours after stress . stress resulted in microscopic damage evidenced by a nearly complete absence of villi . significant macroscopic lesions were not present following stress . mucosal repair was evident 12 hours after stress and almost complete by 24 hours , although the restituted villi were short and blunted . the decreases in mucosal dna , rna , and protein content caused by stress were restored and reached near-normal levels 12 hours after the period of stress . in animals given the specific inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase , alpha-difluoromethylornithine , increases in duodenal mucosal ornithine decarboxylase activity and polyamine levels were inhibited and mucosal repair was almost completely prevented following stress . alpha-difluoromethylornithine also prevented the recovery of dna , rna , and protein content of the duodenal mucosa . these results indicate that duodenal mucosal damage following stress is repaired rapidly ; the repair process is accompanied by significant increases in ornithine decarboxylase activity and polyamine levels ; and the increases in ornithine decarboxylase and polyamines are absolutely required for the normal repair of the mucosa . 
colonic glycoproteins in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease . colonic glycoprotein composition was evaluated in monozygotic twins with inflammatory bowel disease using ion-exchange chromatography . fifty-three individuals , 12 pairs and 1 single twin with ulcerative colitis and 14 pairs with crohn 's disease , were evaluated . seven twin pairs were concordant for the presence of ulcerative colitis or crohn 's disease , whereas twin siblings of 10 ulcerative colitis probands and 9 crohn 's disease probands were not known to have inflammatory bowel disease . content of one chromatographically defined component of colonic mucin , designated hcm species iv , was reduced in both patients with ulcerative colitis ( 1040 + / - 300 cpm/10 ,000 cpm total hcm ) and their apparently healthy twins ( 1340 + / - 540 cpm/10 ,000 cpm total hcm ) compared with control subjects ( 4030 + / - 1,000 cpm/10 ,000 cpm total hcm ) . composition of mucin in crohn 's disease patients and their nonaffected twins was not significantly different than in controls . these observations suggest that altered profiles of mucin glycoprotein may be present before the onset of ulcerative colitis and may be genetically defined . conversely , it appears that alterations in glycoproteins only are not sufficient to initiate mucosal inflammation . 
a controlled trial of psychological treatment for the irritable bowel syndrome . one hundred two patients with irritable bowel syndrome were studied in a controlled trial of psychological treatment involving psychotherapy , relaxation , and standard medical treatment compared with standard medical treatment alone . patients were only selected if their symptoms had not improved with standard medical treatment over the previous 6 months . at 3 months , the treatment group showed significantly greater improvement than the controls on both gastroenterologists ' and patients ' ratings of diarrhea and abdominal pain , but constipation changed little . good prognostic factors included overt psychiatric symptoms and intermittent pain exacerbated by stress , whereas those with constant abdominal pain were helped little by this treatment . this study has demonstrated that psychological treatment is feasible and effective in two thirds of those patients with irritable bowel syndrome who do not respond to standard medical treatment . 
multifocal colitis associated with an epidemic of chronic diarrhea . an outbreak of a chronic diarrheal syndrome was detected between may and august 1987 in rural henderson county , illinois . seventy-two individuals were affected . epidemiological studies performed by the center for disease control implicated the water of a local restaurant as the source of the outbreak . five patients underwent a comprehensive evaluation . their mean age was 51 years , and they had a mean of 12 watery stools daily ( range , 6-40 ) . detailed microbiological evaluations failed to identify a pathological organism . stool studies showed a mean stool weight of 392 g/24 h with a normal fat content . results of all biochemical studies of serum were normal . chemical analysis of stool water suggested a secretory diarrhea . colonoscopy revealed patchy erythema , and light microscopic examination of colonic biopsy specimens revealed multifocal areas of acute inflammation in the superficial mucosa in 4 of 5 patients . electron microscopy of the affected areas revealed no viral particles . after 2 years , all of our patients continued to experience chronic diarrhea . one patient agreed to a follow-up colonoscopy ; histological abnormalities of the colonic mucosa persisted after 2 years . we speculate that an infectious process arising from a contaminated water system induced a chronic , secretory diarrhea characterized by multifocal colitis . this histological abnormality may serve as a marker of an infectious , chronic diarrhea . 
a rodent model of cirrhosis , ascites , and bacterial peritonitis . we sought to develop a rodent model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and report here the preliminary results of carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis in which ascites and bacterial peritonitis predictably develop . of 41 rats that survived the initial carbon tetrachloride toxicity , 38 ( 92.7 % ) developed cirrhosis with ascites . of these 38 , 21 ( 55.3 % ) developed 24 episodes of ascitic fluid infection without iatrogenic colonization . no surgically treatable source of infection was identified at autopsy in any rat ; therefore , the infections were presumed to be " spontaneous . " eight ( 50 % ) of the 16 rats with culture-positive ascitic fluid at postmortem examination also had spontaneous pleural fluid infection with the same organism . escherichia coli and proteus sp . were the organisms most commonly isolated . this rodent model of cirrhosis with ascites appears to be the first high-yield animal model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . ascitic fluid infection in these rats resembles ascitic fluid infection in humans . this model will allow further investigation of the mechanisms of pathogenesis of ascitic fluid infection and provide insight into the prevention and treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and pleural fluid infection in patients with cirrhosis . 
effect of v1-vasopressin receptor blockade on arterial pressure in conscious rats with cirrhosis and ascites . angiotensin ii blockade with saralasin in human cirrhosis with ascites is associated with a significant reduction in arterial pressure , indicating that endogenous angiotensin ii plays an important role in the maintenance of systemic hemodynamics in this condition . the aim of the current study was to investigate whether vasopressin also contributes to the maintenance of arterial pressure in cirrhosis with ascites . the study was performed using three groups of cirrhotic rats with ascites and three groups of control animals . the administration of d ( ch2 ) 5tyr ( me ) avp , a selective antagonist of the vascular effect of vasopressin , to 10 cirrhotic rats induced a significant reduction in mean arterial pressure ( from 94 + / - 4 to 85 + / - 4 mm hg ; p less than 0.001 ) and a significant increase in plasma renin activity ( from 24.3 + / - 4.9 to 34.3 + / - 5.9 ng/ml . h ; p less than 0.02 ) and plasma norepinephrine concentration ( from 1474 + / - 133 to 2433 + / - 253 pg/ml ; p less than 0.01 ) . similar results were observed following saralasin administration in a second group of 5 cirrhotic rats [ mean arterial pressure decreased from 97 + / - 4 to 85 + / - 5 mm hg ( p less than 0.0001 ) ; and plasma renin activity and norepinephrine concentration increased from 18.4 + / - 5.8 to 40.3 + / - 5.7 ng/ml . h ( p less than 0.02 ) and from 1383 + / - 70 to 2312 + / - 334 pg/ml ( p less than 0.05 ) , respectively ] . the simultaneous blockade of angiotensin ii and vasopressin in a third group of cirrhotic rats resulted in a significantly greater reduction of mean arterial pressure ( from 97 + / - 6 to 74 + / - 6 mm hg ; p less than 0.05 ) . no changes in arterial pressure were observed in the three groups of control rats . these findings indicate that endogenous vasopressin is as important as angiotensin ii in the maintenance of arterial pressure in cirrhotic rats with ascites and support the contention that arterial hypotension is the initial event leading to the stimulation of the renin-angiotensin system and vasopressin in this animal model of cirrhosis . 
hepatic injury associated with small bowel bacterial overgrowth in rats is prevented by metronidazole and tetracycline . susceptible rat strains develop hepatobiliary injury following the surgical creation of self-filling blind loops that cause small bowel bacterial overgrowth . luminal bacteria or their cell wall polymers were implicated in the pathogenesis of the lesions because sham-operated rats and rats with self-emptying blind loops , having only slightly increased bacterial counts , did not develop hepatic injury . in this study , antibiotics with different spectra of activities were continuously administered starting 1 day or 22 days after surgery to determine which intestinal flora may be responsible for the development of hepatic injury in rats with small bowel bacterial overgrowth . four weeks following surgery , lewis rats with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics had elevated liver histology scores ( 8.2 + / - 1.3 vs. 0.7 + / - 0.4 ) and plasma aspartate aminotransferase levels ( 269 + / - 171 vs. 84 + / - 24 ) compared with sham-operated rats , p less than 0.001 . oral gentamicin as well as oral and intraperitoneal polymyxin b , which binds endotoxin , did not prevent hepatic injury in rats with self-filling blind loops . however , oral metronidazole and tetracycline therapy continuously administered beginning 1 day after surgery diminished hepatic injury ( histology score 3.0 + / - 1.8 , 2.9 + / - 1.1 ; aspartate aminotransferase 87 + / - 25 , 98 + / - 34 ; respectively p less than 0.001 compared with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics ) . metronidazole also protected wistar rats that require 12 weeks to develop hepatic injury following experimentally induced small bowel bacterial overgrowth compared with rats with self-filling blind loops that received no antibiotic treatment ( histology score 10.4 + / - 1.3 vs. 0.7 + / - 1.1 , and aspartate aminotransferase 273 + / - 239 vs. 76 + / - 20 , p less than 0.001 ) . when rats started metronidazole therapy 22 days after self-filling blind loop surgery , elevated aspartate aminotransferase values decreased to normal during the next 77 days and final histology scores were normal . all rats with self-filling blind loops had negative peritoneal , liver , spleen , and blood cultures but approximately 75 % of mesenteric lymph node cultures were positive irrespective of antibiotic treatment . because bacteroides species have been implicated in causing vitamin b12 and disaccharidase deficiencies in rats with self-filling blind loops , we documented the presence or absence of these organisms from blind loops using selective culture techniques . metronidazole and tetracycline eliminated bacteroides sp . from blind loops , but polymyxin b and gentamicin did not . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
patterns of growth and metastases of induced pancreatic cancer in relation to the prognosis and its clinical implications . to understand high malignancy of pancreatic cancer , the growth and metastatic patterns of pancreatic cancer induced in syrian hamsters were examined . in this model , induced tumors resemble the human disease morphologically , clinically , biologically , and immunologically . in the current study , primary-induced cancer and transplants of pancreatic cancer cell line ( pc-1 ) into the sc tissue or pancreas of homologous hosts were used . in the primary-induced pancreatic cancer , perineural invasion was the most common path ( 88 % ) , followed by lymphogenic ( 31 % ) or vascular ( 2 % ) metastases . inoculation of pc-1 cells into the pancreas resulted in 100 % tumor take within 3 weeks . of 19 intrapancreatic allografts , all showed peritoneal invasion , 5 ( 26 % ) liver metastases , 3 ( 16 % ) lymph node metastases , 17 ( 89 % ) perineural invasion , and none vascular invasion . even microscopic tumors were found to metastasize primarily via perineural spaces . it was also demonstrated , for the first time , that cancer cells take this route to reach distant tissues , including the lymph nodes . intraductal spreading occurred in both primary cancers and intrapancreatic allografts either continuously or discontinuously . the patterns of discontinuous intraductal tumor expansion imitated tumor multicentricity . although perineural invasion was the most common feature of primary cancer and intrapancreatic allografts , lymphatic , hepatic , and vascular invasion and metastases usually occurred in advanced cases . environmental factors seem to influence expansion and metastases , as evidenced by differences in growth and in metastatic patterns between sc and intrapancreatic allografts . 
recurrent acute fatty liver of pregnancy associated with a fatty-acid oxidation defect in the offspring . a case of a 29-year-old woman who has had two episodes both clinically and biochemically consistent with acute fatty liver of pregnancy is described . these episodes occurred in two successive pregnancies , and liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in the second pregnancy . both pregnancies were managed by prompt fetal delivery ; on both occasions this led to a complete biochemical resolution of the liver function abnormalities . two healthy babies were delivered by ceasarian sections . this case is of particular importance because a rapidly progressive and devastating illness developed in both infants , leading to death at 6 1/2 and 6 months , respectively . the illness in both babies was characterized by wide-spread fatty infiltration of several vital organs and a failure of any treatment to influence the outcome of that illness . studies suggested that the illness in the children was caused by a still ill-defined disorder of fatty acid oxidation . the biochemical disorder evidenced in this family is discussed , in an attempt to shed light on the etiology of acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
managing prostatitis in the elderly . bacterial prostatitis is primarily a disease of elderly men , and it is the most common urinary tract infection seen in this age group . urosepsis from prostatitis or prostatic abscess occurs less frequently than with urological manipulation , but must always be considered in elderly men with prostatitis . this article focuses on the diagnosis and antibiotic treatment of bacterial prostatitis in the elderly . 
alteration of platelet serotonin in patients with chronic tension-type headache during cold pressor test . change of 5-hydroxytryptamine ( 5-ht ) concentrations in platelets from patients with chronic tension-type headache ( th ) and controls were observed during cold pressor test ( cpt ) . before cold stimulation , 5-ht concentrations in platelets from patients with th were significantly lower than those found in controls . one minute after the start of cold stimulation , 5-ht levels in platelets from patients with th were significantly much lower than in the controls , as control levels rose and th levels fell . the results show that , under stress , the absorbance of 5-ht into the platelets in patients with th is reduced . it is suggested that , in patients with th , there are abnormalities of 5-ht uptake into platelets and factors which cause release of 5-ht from platelets . 
impaired oxidative metabolism increases adenine nucleotide breakdown in mcardle 's disease . two patients with muscle phosphorylase deficiency [ mcardle 's disease ( mca ) ] were studied during bicycle exercise at 40 ( n = 2 ) and 60 w ( n = 1 ) . peak heart rate was 170 and 162 beats/min , corresponding to approximately 90 % of estimated maximal heart rate . muscle samples were taken at rest and immediately after exercise from the quadriceps femoris . lactate content remained low in both muscle and blood . acetylcarnitine , which constitutes a readily available form of acetyl units and thus a substrate for the tricarboxylic acid cycle , was very low in mca patients both at rest and during exercise , corresponding to approximately 17 and 11 % , respectively , of that in healthy subjects . muscle nadh was unchanged during exercise in mca patients in contrast to healthy subjects , in whom nadh increases markedly at high exercise intensities . despite low lactate levels , arterial plasma nh3 and muscle inosine 5 ' - monophosphate increased more steeply relative to work load in mca patients than in healthy subjects . the low postexercise levels of lactate , acetylcarnitine , and nadh in mca patients support the idea that exercise performance is limited by the availability of oxidative fuels . increases in muscle inosine 5 ' - monophosphate and plasma nh3 indicate that lack of glycogen as an oxidative fuel is associated with adenine nucleotide breakdown and increased deamination of amp . it is suggested that the early onset of fatigue in mca patients is caused by an insufficient rate of adp phosphorylation , resulting in transient increases in adp . 
effects of changes in level and pattern of breathing on the sensation of dyspnea . breathing during hypercapnia is determined by reflex mechanisms but may also be influenced by respiratory sensations . the present study examined the effects of voluntary changes in level and pattern of breathing on the sensation of dyspnea at a constant level of chemical drive . studies were carried out in 15 normal male subjects during steady-state hypercapnia at an end-tidal pco2 of 50 torr . the intensity of dyspnea was rated on a borg category scale . in one experiment ( n = 8 ) , the level of ventilation was increased or decreased from the spontaneously adopted level ( vspont ) . in another experiment ( n = 9 ) , the minute ventilation was maintained at the level spontaneously adopted at pco2 of 50 torr and breathing frequency was increased or decreased from the spontaneously adopted level ( fspont ) with reciprocal changes in tidal volume . the intensity of dyspnea ( expressed as percentage of the spontaneous breathing level ) correlated with ventilation ( % vspont ) negatively at levels below vspont ( r = -0.70 , p less than 0.001 ) and positively above vspont ( r = 0.80 , p less than 0.001 ) . at a constant level of ventilation , the intensity of dyspnea correlated with breathing frequency ( % fspont ) negatively at levels below fspont ( r = -0.69 , p less than 0.001 ) and positively at levels above fspont ( r = 0.75 , p less than 0.001 ) . these results indicate that dyspnea intensifies when the level or pattern of breathing is voluntarily changed from the spontaneously adopted level . this is consistent with the possibility that ventilatory responses to changes in chemical drive may be regulated in part to minimize the sensations of respiratory effort and discomfort . 
respiratory input impedance in anesthetized paralyzed patients . respiratory impedance ( zrs ) was measured between 0.25 and 32 hz in seven anesthetized and paralyzed patients by applying forced oscillation of low amplitude at the inlet of the endotracheal tube . effective respiratory resistance ( rrs ; in cmh2o.l-1 . s ) fell sharply from 6.2 + / - 2.1 ( sd ) at 0.25 hz to 2.3 + / - 0.6 at 2 hz . from then on , rrs decreased slightly with frequency down to 1.5 + / - 0.5 at 32 hz . respiratory reactance ( xrs ; in cmh2o.l-1 . s ) was -22.2 + / - 5.9 at 0.25 hz and reached zero at approximately 14 hz and 2.3 + / - 0.8 at 32 hz . effective respiratory elastance ( ers = -2 pi x frequency x xrs ; in cmh2o/1 ) was 34.8 + / - 9.2 at 0.25 hz and increased markedly with frequency up to 44.2 + / - 8.6 at 2 hz . we interpreted zrs data in terms of a t network mechanical model . we represented the proximal branch by central airway resistance and inertance . the shunt pathway accounted for bronchial distensibility and alveolar gas compressibility . the distal branch included a newtonian resistance component for tissues and peripheral airways and a viscoelastic component for tissues . when the viscoelastic component was represented by a kelvin body as in the model of bates et al . ( j. appl . physiol . 61 : 873-880 , 1986 ) , a good fit was obtained over the entire frequency range , and reasonable values of parameters were estimated . the strong frequency dependence of rrs and ers observed below 2 hz in our anesthetized paralyzed patients could be mainly interpreted in terms of tissue viscoelasticity . nevertheless , the high ers we found with low volume excursions suggests that tissues also exhibit plasticlike properties . 
theophylline minimally alters contractile properties of canine diaphragm in vitro . we examined the effects of theophylline on contractile properties and high-frequency fatigue of canine diaphragm in vitro . eighteen diaphragm muscle bundles were obtained from 10 anesthetized dogs and equilibrated in oxygenated krebs solution to 100 , 200 , or 300 mg/l theophylline . these bundles were compared with 18 matched control bundles from the contralateral hemidiaphragm . no statistically significant differences in twitch tension , tetanic tension , twitch-to-tetanus ratio , time to peak tension , or half-relaxation time were observed . concentrations of 300 mg/l theophylline , however , significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) increased force production at 10 hz by 32 % . a similar tendency was present at lower concentrations and exhibited a clear dose-response behavior . high-frequency fatigue was similar in control and theophylline-treated bundles . we conclude that supratherapeutic in vitro concentrations of theophylline do not increase maximal tetanic tension and do not protect against muscle fatigue but potentiate relative force production at low stimulation frequencies . this relatively small effect can not be explained by poor diffusion of the drug in the muscle bundle , because theophylline concentrations in the muscle bath and in the muscle bundle were virtually identical . moreover , it remains unclear whether this potentially beneficial effect can be achieved at in vivo attainable serum concentrations . 
role of dopamine and arterial chemoreceptors in thermal tachypnea in conscious cats . in mammals submitted to a warm environment , intracerebral injection of dopamine ( da ) produces no change or an increase in body temperature accompanied by an increase in metabolic heat production , but its effect on heat loss mechanisms such as vasodilation and tachypnea is not clear . because the principal mechanism of heat loss in the conscious cat is thermal tachypnea , we studied the influence of da on thermal tachypnea in response to heat stress ( ambient temperature = 33-36 degrees c ) in five conscious cats . we first studied the steady-state response to a da agonist , apomorphine , which crosses the blood-brain barrier . intravenous injection of apomorphine greatly reduced thermal tachypnea by decreasing respiratory frequency ( from 94.9 to 52.5 breaths/min ) and increasing tidal volume ( from 13.2 to 20.4 ml ) . the subsequent injection of the da antagonist haloperidol , which also crosses the blood-brain barrier , restored the initial tachypnea . to further investigate the mechanism involved in thermal tachypnea , we studied the influence of peripheral chemoreceptors by transiently stimulating or inhibiting carotid body ( cb ) activity during tachypneic breathing . cb stimulation by intravenous injection of nacn or domperidone reduced thermal tachypnea mainly by decreasing the respiratory frequency , whereas cb inhibition by da tended to increase frequency and thus tachypnea . it is concluded that 1 ) in a warm environment , central da receptors are also greatly involved in heat loss mechanisms , 2 ) arterial chemoreceptor input appears to counteract this tachypneic breathing , and 3 ) thermal and hypoxic tachypnea may be controlled by the same mechanism in which a da-like system has a key role . 
ventilatory effect of acute pulmonary hypothermia . the isolated effect of cooling the pulmonary circulation on ventilation was quantified in nine anesthetized dogs . the right pulmonary artery ( rpa ) was cannulated within the pericardium , and systemic blood was pumped from the left atrium to the rpa between , but not during , periods of cooling . cooled blood boluses were injected into the rpa under conditions in which either bolus temperature ( 5-35 degrees c ) or volume ( 0-1 .5 ml/kg body wt ) varied . inspiratory time ( ti ) , expiratory time ( te ) , breath duration ( tt ) , and peak integrated activity ( peak ) were determined from diaphragm emg . results for five postinjection breaths were converted to a percent of the values from five preinjection breaths . there was a linear relationship between bolus temperature and ti [ r = 0.61 , slope ( x ) = 0.59 % / degrees c , p less than 0.001 ) , te ( r = 0.73 , x = 1.43 % / degrees c , p less than 0.001 ] as well as tt ( r = 0.74 , x = 1.10 % / degrees c , p less than 0.001 ) , whereas peak was unaffected ( n = 9 ) . when injection temperature was 5 degrees c , an inverse linear relationship existed between bolus volume and ti ( r = 0.75 , x = -15.2 % . ml-1 . kg-1 , p less than 0.001 ) and te ( r = 0.78 , x = -23.4 % . ml-1 . kg-1 , p less than 0.001 ) ( n = 4 ) . in two dogs tested the effect of bolus injection was minimal at residual volume and progressively increased with lung volume . the effect of cold bolus injection was eliminated after right vagotomy in three dogs . results indicate that cooling of some vagal receptor in the lung increases breathing frequency primarily by shortening te . 
airflow obstruction after substance p aerosol : contribution of airway and pulmonary edema . we have studied the effects of aerosolized substance p ( sp ) in guinea pigs with reference to lung resistance and dynamic compliance changes and their recovery after hyperinflation . in addition , we have examined the concomitant formation of airway microvascular leakage and lung edema . increasing breaths of sp ( 1.5 mg/ml , 1.1 mm ) , methacholine ( 0.15 mg/ml , 0.76 mm ) , or 0.9 % saline were administered to tracheostomized and mechanically ventilated guinea pigs . lung resistance ( rl ) increased dose dependently with a maximum effect of 963 + / - 85 % of baseline values ( mean + / - se ) after sp ( 60 breaths ) and 1,388 + / - 357 % after methacholine ( 60 breaths ) . after repeated hyperinflations , methacholine-treated animals returned to baseline , but after sp , mean rl was still raised ( 292 + / - 37 % ; p less than 0.005 ) . airway microvascular leakage , measured by extravasation of evans blue dye , occurred in the brain bronchi and intrapulmonary airways after sp but not after methacholine . there was a significant correlation between rl after hyperinflation and evans blue dye extravasation in intrapulmonary airways ( distal : r = 0.89 , p less than 0.005 ; proximal : r = 0.85 , p less than 0.01 ) . examination of frozen sections for peribronchial and perivascular cuffs of edema and for alveolar flooding showed significant degrees of pulmonary edema for animals treated with sp compared with those treated with methacholine or saline . we conclude that the inability of hyperinflation to fully reverse changes in rl after sp may be due to the formation of both airway and pulmonary edema , which may also contribute to the deterioration in rl . 
effect of acute hypercapnia on limb muscle contractility in humans . the effect of acute hypercapnia on skeletal muscle contractility and relaxation rate was investigated . the contractile force of fresh and fatigued quadriceps femoris ( qf ) and adductor pollicis ( ap ) was studied in normal humans by use of electrical stimulation . maximum relaxation rate from stimulated contractions was measured for both muscles . acute hypercapnia led to a rapid substantial reduction of contraction force . the respiratory acidosis after 9 % co2 was breathed for 20 min [ mean venous blood ph 7.26 and end-tidal pco2 ( petco2 ) 65.1 torr ] reduced 20 - and 100-hz stimulated contractions of qf to 72.8 + / - 4.4 and 80.0 + / - 5.1 % of control values , respectively . after 8 and 9 % co2 were breathed for 12 min , ap forces at 20 - and 50-hz stimulation were also reduced . twitch tension of ap was reduced by a mean of 25.5 % when subjects breathed 9 % co2 for 12 min [ mean arterialized venous blood ph ( phav ) 7.25 and petco2 66 torr ] . over the range of 5 % ( phav 7.38 and petco2 47 torr ) to 9 % co2 , there was a linear relationship between twitch tension loss and phav , arterialized venous blood pco2 , and petco2 . acute respiratory acidosis ( mean petco2 61 torr ) increased the severity of low-frequency fatigue after intermittent voluntary contractions of ap . at 20 min of recovery , twitch tension was 63.2 + / - 13.4 and 46.8 + / - 16.4 % of control value after exercise breathing air and 8 % co2 , respectively . acute hypercapnia ( mean petco2 65.1 and 60.5 torr ) did not alter the maximum relaxation rate from tetanic contractions of fresh qf and from twitch tensions of ap . 
carotid artery resection and replacement in patients with head and neck malignant tumors . tumor involvement of the carotid artery with head and neck cancers may be present either simultaneously with the primary lesion or more often appears at a later date following resection of the primary tumor . management of the secondary tumor consists of its resection together with the involved carotid artery with or without carotid artery reconstruction . the authors are convinced that the best chance for cure of patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell cancers involving the carotid artery is radical extirpation with ablative surgery in the form of en block resection of the primary lesion , the secondary tumor , and the involved carotid artery followed by immediate revascularization . this bold approach was carried out in two male patients , 48 and 61 years of age , followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy in one and radiation therapy alone in the other , with excellent results . dermal grafts were placed over the entire length of the arterialized veins to protect them from radiation injury . based on this limited experience and excellent results , we recommend this one-stage surgical ablative procedure in well selected patients . however , cooperation between the ent and vascular surgeons , strict adherence to the principles and techniques of vascular surgery , and coverage of the arterialized vein with a dermal graft is absolutely essential . 
large diameter expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts for infrarenal aortic aneurysm surgery . the performance of an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( eptfe ) graft used for aortic aneurysm replacement was evaluated . eptfe grafts were implanted in 241 patients undergoing infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm ( aaa ) repair . sixty patients were operated as emergencies for aneurysm rupture and 181 electively . one hundred and fourteen bifurcated and 127 tube grafts were inserted . the transperitoneal approach was used in 64 cases and the remainder were placed using a retroperitoneal approach . there was a one-month mortality of 2.8 % in elective and 20 % in emergency cases . median follow-up was 26 months . specific graft complications included one infected graft resulting in a graft-enteric fistula . no graft rupture , degeneration , dilatation , pseudoaneurysm or late graft limb thromboses were observed in up to 7 years of follow-up . the aortic eptfe prosthesis demonstrated satisfactory performance over the period studied . 
the validity of canine platelet aggregometry in predicting vascular graft patency . several laboratories have found canine platelet aggregometry predictive of thrombotic potential in vascular grafts . adenosine diphosphate ( adp ) is a frequently used agonist , often at unspecified or differing concentrations . this study was designed to evaluate the predictive value of adp-induced platelet aggregometry and the validity of the methodology . platelet aggregometry in response to 2 x 10 ( -5 ) m adp was assayed in 70 dogs . twenty-six percent were aggregators , 51 % were non-aggregators , and 20 % were indeterminant . all dogs were then treated with aspirin and dipyridamole . vascular prostheses were implanted bilaterally ( aorto-iliac ) and anti-platelet therapy continued for two weeks . dose-response to adp was studied at three concentrations in 20 dogs . at 2 x 10 ( -5 ) 1/20 aggregated , at 4 x 10 ( -5 ) 3/19 aggregated and at 2 x 10 ( -4 ) 15/20 aggregated . time between samples and study was evaluated in 11 dogs , with 2/11 changing from non-aggregator to aggregator at two or three hours . daily reproducibility was studied in 70 dogs , 14 of which changed aggregation status between days . patency was 58/68 ( 85 % ) for non-aggregators , 23/34 ( 68 % ) for aggregators ( p = 0.038 ) . platelet aggregometry has significant predictive value for graft patency but methodology must be specified and standardized . 
ultrastructural evidence of the effects of shear stress variation on intimal thickening in dogs with arterially transplanted autologous vein grafts . based on our findings that changes in wall shear stress , not the rate of blood flow , were the main hemodynamic factor related to intimal hyperplasia of autologous vein grafts , we further investigated the effect of wall shear stress variation on sequential ultrastructural changes in the intimal hyperplasia of arterially transplanted autovein grafts , using canine models . as noted , wall shear stress variation ( tau-variation ) could be defined by the variation in wall shear stress within a cardiac cycle , using a desktop flow waveform analyzer . in group i , which had a high flow rate of 78.4 + / - 4.6 ml/min and low tau-variation of 36.1 + / - 2.2 dynes/cm2 , intimal hyperplasia was significant . ultrastructurally , there was a marked transformation of intimal smooth muscle cells to secretory cells 2 to 4 weeks after implantation . the surface of the intima was lined with modified smooth muscle cells at 2 weeks after implantation . in group ii , which had a low flow rate of 5.6 + / - 2.2 ml/min and normal tau-variation value ( 174.6 + / - 13.0 dynes/cm2 ) , intimal hyperplasia was minimal , and there were several layers of contractile type smooth muscle cells , with characteristic myofibrillae . the surface of the intima was lined with endothelial cells at 2 weeks after implantation . these findings suggest that , in regions of low wall shear stress variation , intimal smooth muscle cells of autovein grafts may well become secretory cells , and enhanced platelet adherence could occur during early intimal repair , causing intimal hyperplasia to develop . 
superficial femoral artery as inflow for bypass to the proximal popliteal artery . we have obtained long term follow-up on 58 patients in whom the superficial femoral artery was used as a donor site for bypass to the proximal popliteal artery . the indication for the reconstructive procedure was intermittent claudication 36 % , rest pain 34 % , and gangrene 26 % . all patients had angiographic evidence of a patent proximal superficial femoral artery and many had relative indications for short bypass such as limited saphenous vein availability or compromised medical condition . there was a cumulative patency rate of 79 % by life table method for the series with a six year follow-up . we have observed that the superficial femoral artery is a satisfactory inflow site for proximal popliteal bypass grafts in selected patients . the procedure can maximize use of a limited segment of vein with minimal operative time and morbidity . inflow stenosis can be revised or long bypass procedures can be offered in the event of graft failure . 
clip repair of peripheral side-to-side arteriovenous fistulas . evaluation of a method in dogs and preliminary results in humans . a simple technique for repair of peripheral arteriovenous fistula by clip application is presented . this procedure is rapid and effective , it minimizes the extent of dissection , and it eliminates the need for application of vascular clamps on the vessels and for anticoagulation . the safety of the procedure was confirmed in dog experiments and clinically applied successfully in four patients . it is suitable for simple , uncomplicated side-to-side fistulas amenable to this procedure . 
a rare case of renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection . a report of successful surgical treatment in childhood . renovascular hypertension due to iatrogenic thoracoabdominal aortic dissection in an 8-year-old girl with aortic valvular stenosis is presented . a splenorenal arterial anastomosis without splenectomy was successfully performed . this procedure is considered best suited for children with thoracoabdominal aortic dissection as the autogenous graft is expected to grow and provide long-term patency . the spleen left in situ was expected to be advantageous , from the immunological aspect , at the time of open heart surgery for aortic valvular stenosis , which was anticipated in the near future in this child . 
femoral saphenous vein bypass in a newborn . this is believed to be the youngest patient to undergo a saphenous vein bypass for iatrogenic trauma of the right superficial femoral artery . the infant had emergency right heart catheterisation and rashkind septostomy for severe desaturation due to transposition of the great arteries . during the exposure of the saphenous vein , the superficial femoral artery was accidentally severed at it 's origin . an attempt to restore the circulation by end-to-end anastomosis failed and resulted in persistent limb ischemia for over 4 hours . the baby was reoperated upon , the damaged part of the superficial femoral artery was resected and a saphenous vein graft interposed between the common and the distal superficial femoral artery . 
a denaturated venous homograft as an alternative material for shunts and other reconstructions in congenital cardiac surgery . a human venous homograft " varivas r " , in clinical use for 10 years for vascular access loops and femoropopliteal bypasses , has been used since december 1985 as a material for aortopulmonary shunts and other reconstructive procedures in congenital heart surgery . for this purpose vein segments 5 cm length , varying in diameter from 4 up to 10 mm by steps of 1 mm , were obtained . our experience with varivas is limited to 59 patients . of 47 infants , 18 received a left , and 25 a right sided aortopulmonary shunt , 9 had bilateral aortopulmonary shunts , 2 right ventricle pulmonary conduits , 1 a pulmonary-pulmonary conduit , 3 interrupted aortic arch reconstructions and 4 a central aortopulmonary shunt , 1 with confluence reconstruction , 3 recidives of coarctation a patch repair . among 11 adults 6 received coronary bypass and 6 others vascular reconstructions . in contrast to other artificial graft materials , the vein material offers easy manipulation similar to the daily routine of handling fresh vein material offers easy manipulation similar to the daily routine of handling fresh vein grafts in coronary surgery . the appropriate diameter sizes match better the infants anatomy , without the risk of kinking and/or anastomosis displacement . peroperatively it was possible to confirm patency by electromagnetic flow measurement and the postoperative examinations were done by colour doppler echocardiography . we had to reoperate upon 4 infants because of early thrombosis ; on 1 infant for stenosis of the graft and on another 5 for late thrombosis . in an attempt to extend the indications for " inoperable " pulmonary hypoplasia/atresia we were not able to keep the shunt open in 4 infants . 
repetitive intraoperative mapping and cryotherapy improve the results of endocardial resection for ventricular tachycardia . patients with recurrent ventricular tachycardia or a history of a sudden cardiac death episode and ventricular tachycardia inducible in the electrophysiology laboratory have a high incidence of recurrence and a high mortality despite medical therapy . map-guided endocardial resection has improved treatment results , but is associated with a 10-30 % failure rate . in our initial experience with endocardial resection ( group i ) we incurred a 30 % treatment failure rate . in the present study we have found the addition of sequential intraoperative mapping and routine use of cryotherapy ( group ii ) improved our results of ventricular tachycardia control without significant additional morbidity or mortality . 
wound infection following early repeat sternotomy for postoperative bleeding . an experience utilizing intraoperative irrigation with povidone iodine . a prospective observational study of median sternotomy wound infection was carried out in two consecutive groups of unselected patients undergoing early repeat sternotomy for postoperative haemorrhage . in group a the pericardial cavity and sternotomy wound layers were irrigated with aqueous povidone iodine prior to repeat closure , while group b did not receive povidone iodine . no median sternotomy infections were recorded in group a compared to 5 cases in group b ( 0 out of 22 vs 5 out of 21 patients , p less than 0.05 ) . amongst the patients with wound infection , three developed sternal dehiscence and mediastinitis with one death . the data suggests that povidone iodine irrigation may be effective in reducing wound infection in patients undergoing early repeat sternotomy after cardiac surgery . 
loss of endothelium-dependent relaxant activity in the pulmonary circulation of rats exposed to chronic hypoxia . to determine whether exposure to chronic hypoxia and subsequent development of pulmonary hypertension induces alterations of endothelium-dependent relaxation in rat pulmonary vascular bed , we studied isolated lung preparations from rats exposed to either room air ( controls ) or hypoxia ( h ) during 1 wk ( 1w-h ) , 3 wk ( 3w-h ) , or 3w-h followed by 48 h recovery to room air ( 3wh + r ) . in lungs pretreated with meclofenamate ( 3 microm ) , the endothelium-dependent vasodilator responses to acetylcholine ( 10 ( -9 ) -10 ( -6 ) m ) and ionophore a23187 ( 10 ( -9 ) -10 ( -7 ) m ) were examined during conditions of increased tone by u46619 ( 50 pmol/min ) . acetylcholine or a23187 produced dose-dependent vasodilation in control lungs , this response was reduced in group 1w-h ( p less than 0.02 ) , abolished in group 3w-h ( p less than 0.001 ) , and restored in group 3wh + r. in contrast , the endothelium-independent vasodilator agent sodium nitroprusside remained fully active in group 3w-h . the pressor response to 300 pm endothelin was greater in group 3w-h than in controls ( 6.8 + / - 0.5 mmhg vs. 1.6 + / - 0.2 mmhg , p less than 0.001 ) but was not potentiated by the endothelium-dependent relaxing factor ( edrf ) antagonists : hydroquinone ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) ; methylene blue ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) ; and pyrogallol ( 3 x 10 ( -5 ) m ) as it was in controls . it was similar to controls in group 3w-h + r. our results demonstrate that hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension is associated with a loss of edrf activity in pulmonary vessels , with a rapid recovery on return to a normoxic environment . 
thrombin stimulates tumor-platelet adhesion in vitro and metastasis in vivo . recent studies have revealed a role for platelets and the platelet-adhesive proteins , fibronectin and von willebrand factor ( vwf ) in platelet-tumor cell interaction in vitro and metastasis in vivo . the present report documents the effect of thrombin treatment of platelets on this interaction in vitro and in vivo . in vitro , thrombin at 100-1 ,000 mu/ml maximally stimulated the adhesion of six different tumor cell lines from three different species two - to fivefold . as little as 1-10 mu/ml was effective . the effect of thrombin was specific ( inhibitable by hirudin , dansyl-arginine n - ( 3-ethyl-1 ,5 pentanediyl ) amide and unreactive with the inactive thrombin analogue n-p-tosyl-l-phenylchloromethylketone-thrombin and d-phenylalanyl-l-propyl-l-arginine chloromethylketone-thrombin ( ppack-thrombin ) , and required high-affinity thrombin receptors ( competition with ppack-thrombin but not with n-p-tosyl-l-lysine-chloromethyl-ketone-thrombin ) . functionally active thrombin was required on the platelet surface . binding of tumor cells to thrombin-activated platelets was inhibitable by agents known to interfere with the platelet gpiib-gpiiia integrin : monoclonal antibody 10e5 , tetrapeptide rgds and gamma chain fibrinogen decapeptide lggakqagdv , as well as polyclonal antibodies against the platelet adhesive ligands , fibronectin and vwf . in vivo , thrombin at 250-500 mu per animal increased murine pulmonary metastases fourfold with ct26 colon carcinoma cells and 68-413-fold with b16 amelanotic melanoma cells . thus , thrombin amplifies tumor-platelet adhesion in vitro two - to fivefold via occupancy of high-affinity platelet thrombin receptors , and modulation of gpiib-gpiiia adhesion via an rgd-dependent mechanism . in vivo , thrombin enhances tumor metastases 4-413-fold with two different tumor cell lines . 
a deletion in the gene for glycoprotein iib associated with glanzmann 's thrombasthenia . the platelet fibrinogen receptor is composed of a complex of glycoproteins ( gp ) iib and iiia on the surface of platelets . deficient function of this receptor prevents normal platelet aggregation , resulting in glanzmann 's thrombasthenia ( gt ) . in this paper , we describe a black thrombasthenic patient who is either homozygous or hemizygous for a deletion within the gpiib gene . initial western blot analysis of platelet proteins from this patient did not detect any gpiib , but did detect small amounts of gpiiia of normal mobility . quantitation of vitronectin receptor ( vnr ) demonstrated that this thrombasthenic patient had approximately 1.5-2 times the number of these receptors per platelet compared with controls , a finding that has previously been noted in other thrombasthenic patients with defects in gpiib . genomic southern blot studies demonstrated a deletion in the gpiib gene of approximately 4.5 kilobasepairs ( kb ) . analysis of the isolated gpiib gene demonstrated that the deletion begins between two alu repeats within intron 1 and ends in intron 9 . polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) studies using platelet rna and oligonucleotides directed to both the 5 ' and 3 ' ends of the gpiib cdna sequence easily detected gpiib transcript , suggesting that the genomic deletion of exons 2-9 does not significantly decrease the level of the gpiib mrna . sequence analysis of pcr-generated gpiib cdna showed that a cryptic ag splice acceptor sequence was being utilized , resulting in a transcript that contained a portion of introns 1 and 9 , as well as having a deletion of exons 2-9 . unlike the gpiib gene , the gpiiia gene appears to be intact by southern blot analysis . pcr studies using platelet rna and oligonucleotides directed to the gpiiia cdna sequence demonstrated the presence of gpiiia mrna . in summary , the thrombasthenic state in this patient appears to be due to a gpiib gene deletion resulting in an abnormal transcript and no detectable platelet gpiib . platelet gpiiia levels were secondarily low presumably due to the known instability of gpiiia in the absence of gpiib . 
spherical connective tissue inclusions in epithelial hyperplasia of the breast ( " collagenous spherulosis " ) . partial myoepithelial differentiation is common in simple epithelial hyperplasia ( epitheliosis ) of the breast but functional myoepithelial differentiation with basement membrane production is exceedingly rare . a peculiar change of hyaline globules within benign epithelial hyperplasia has been recognised before as " collagenous spherulosis " and type iv collagen has been shown by immunohistochemistry . another seven cases are described which show the presence of laminin and collagens iv and iii within the proliferation . electron microscopy examination of two cases using material retrieved from the wax block showed varying degrees of myoepithelial differentiation of the cells immediately surrounding the spherules and basal lamina material , including mature collagen fibrils in one case . the degree of myoepithelial differentiation of the cells surrounding the spherules seemed to correlate with the differing types and amounts of extracellular matrix in the spherule . histopathologists should be aware of this rare change as it may be misinterpreted as in situ carcinoma . 
antibody coated bacteria in urine of patients with recent spinal injury . twenty patients with an acute spinal injury were prospectively studied to assess the clinical importance of antibody coated bacteria ( acb ) in the urine and the association among the different bacterial species with a positive antibody coated bacteria test . clinical urinary tract infection was associated with a positive acb test on 45 % of occasions . three hundred and ninety nine urine samples containing 541 bacterial isolates were assessed for the presence of acb ; 13 % were found to be positive and 87 % negative for acb ; 67 % of urines contained a single bacterial isolate . pseudomonas aeruginosa was most commonly associated with clinical urinary tract infection , found in 25 % of episodes , followed by proteus mirabilis ( 17.5 % ) , klebsiella sp ( 12.5 % ) , and proteus morganii ( 10 % ) . providencia stuartii , however , was most commonly associated with a positive acb test ( found in 17 % ) . other bacteria associated with a positive acb test included klebsiella sp ( 14 % ) , acinetobacter sp ( 12.5 % ) , pseudomonas aeruginosa ( 12 % ) , citrobacter sp ( 11.5 % ) . a positive acb test is not to be expected from a patient with spinal injury who has a catheter in place , and the test may provide a useful guide to identify those patients with an invasive infection . it is doubtful that a decision to treat or not treat bacteriuria could rest on the identification of the bacterial species alone . 
fluorometric determination of pseudocholinesterase activity in postmortem blood samples . a fluorometric assay using 3 - ( p-hydroxyphenyl ) propionic acid ( hppa ) was conducted to determine the activity of pseudocholinesterase ( che ) [ enzyme commission ( ec ) no . 3.1.1.8 ] in postmortem blood samples so as to test for organophosphate poisoning . by the enzymatic reaction of che , its substrate , benzoylcholine , produces choline , which is oxidized by choline oxidase to generate hydrogen peroxide . hppa is oxidized by hydrogen peroxide and peroxidase to become the fluorogenic dimer whose concentration is measured fluorometrically at an excitation emission wavelength of 320 nm and an elimination emission wavelength of 404 nm . the selectivity and sensitivity of the present method were found to be superior to those of conventional ph and spectrophotometric methods . 
differences between multisite postmortem ethanol concentrations as related to agonal events . in a study of postmortem ethanol concentrations , blood was withdrawn from the right atrium , ascending aorta , and inferior vena cava . these samples , vitreous humor , and gastric fluid were analyzed in 307 autopsies , where a minimum blood ethanol concentration of 0.05 % weight/volume ( w/v ) was present . premortem , agonal , and postmortem events were reviewed in an attempt to account for differences in blood ethanol concentrations between sites . the agonal aspiration of vomitus having at least 0.80 % w/v ethanol appears to be associated with an increase in aortic ethanol concentrations . we conclude that valid interpretation of postmortem ethanol concentrations must take into consideration the possible entry of ethanol into the pulmonary venous circulation via the respiratory system . 
brain markers and suicide : can a relationship be found ? recent work suggests that some persons who commit suicide have altered neurochemistry in their brains . it remains unclear which of the many reported abnormalities are most reliably present and whether they reflect a specific psychiatric disorder or a disposition to violent impulsivity . a number of technical and interpretive problems must be clarified , but a postmortem test indicating that a subject was at high risk for suicide may eventually emerge . this approach would not be useful for ruling out suicide , since altered neurochemistry is not likely to be involved in every case . 
sudden cardiac death during exercise in a weight lifter using anabolic androgenic steroids : pathological and toxicological findings . a 21-year-old , previously healthy weight lifter collapsed during a bench press workout . he had taken anabolic androgenic steroids parenterally for the previous several months . pertinent autopsy findings included marked cardiac and renal hypertrophy and hepatosplenomegaly , with regional myocardial fibrosis and focal myocardial necrosis . nandrolone ( 19-nor-testosterone ) metabolites were identified in postmortem urine . the possible etiologies of the cardiac findings are discussed . 
fetal death due to nonlethal maternal carbon monoxide poisoning . fetal death due to acute carbon monoxide poisoning is rarely reported in the medical literature . of the eight cases found in literature review , only one documented the fetal carboxyhemoglobin concentration . this paper reports a fetal death due to accidental nonlethal maternal carbon monoxide intoxication in which both maternal and fetal carboxyhemoglobin concentrations were obtained . the corrected carboxyhemoglobin concentration was 61 % at the time of death in utero , while the maternal carboxyhemoglobin was measured at 7 % after one hour of supplemental oxygen . the authors review the mechanisms of fetal death and emphasize the different carbon monoxide kinetics in the fetal circulation . 
the long-distance effects of brain lesions : visualization of myelinated pathways in the human brain using polarizing and fluorescence microscopy . we describe several new possibilities for the study of degenerated myelinated tracts in the human central nervous system ( cns ) . the methods are based on the visualization of myelin breakdown products that show birefringence in polarized light and , when stained with nile blue and benzpyrene-3 ,4 , exhibit fluorescence . even after lengthy formalin fixation , the methods permit the localization of anterogradely degenerated tracts in a variety of fiber systems in the brains of patients who died between five and 20 months after the onset of neurological symptoms . particularly the polarizing technique , because of its simplicity , can be added to the usual neuropathological methods for demonstrating the long-distance effects of a brain lesion . as research tools , these methods would also aid in the study of the anatomical substrate of human neurological symptomatology . 
delayed central nervous system myelination in the sudden infant death syndrome . this study was designed to assess whether development of the central nervous system ( cns ) is delayed in victims of the sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) . we selected the parameter of myelination because it is a continuously changing and readily accessible marker of cns development in the sids age-range . we assessed myelination blindly in 61 sids and 89 autopsy controls . in 62 sites the degree of myelination was visually graded in myelin-stained histological sections on an ordinal scale of 0-4 using the inferior cerebellar peduncle as an internal standard of degree 3 . cases were stratified by postconceptional age at death and sids and controls were compared with respect to myelin degree at each site . significantly delayed myelination ( p less than 0.05 ) occurred in the sids group in 25 of the 62 sites examined . hypomyelination affected fiber systems in which myelination is initiated before or after birth and which myelinate with different tempos and preferentially affect pyramidal and cerebellar ( somatomotor ) and prefrontal-temporal-limbic ( visceromotor ) systems . hypomyelination was not associated with individual clinicopathologic variables in the sids group . somatic growth and brain weight were significantly greater in sids than controls . therefore , we suggest that sids is associated with a developmental cns disorder . although delayed cns myelination most likely shares a common antecedent with sudden death and is not its cause , the role of somato - and viscero-motor systems in central cardiorespiratory control and arousal warrants further analysis in sids . 
the neuromuscular pathology of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) is a recently reorganized disorder in patients ingesting pharmacologic doses of l-tryptophan . we studied the lesions of skeletal muscle , peripheral nerve and skin in 12 cases of ems . perimyositis was severe in four , moderate in two , mild in three and absent in three cases . the lesions contained many eosinophils , t-helper cells , mast cells and activated macrophages . type 2 myofiber atrophy was present in five cases and in one , this was the only pathologic finding . severe epineurial inflammation was seen in the three sural nerve biopsies . indirect evidence for peripheral neurologic involvement in three other cases consisted of inflammation surrounding intramuscular nerve twigs ( two cases ) and neurogenic atrophy ( one case ) . phlebitis accompanied the connective tissue inflammation in five cases and endarteritis in one . fasciitis was present in three of four skin biopsies and dermal fibrosis in one . 
high survival rate in advanced-stage b-cell lymphomas and leukemias without cns involvement with a short intensive polychemotherapy : results from the french pediatric oncology society of a randomized trial of 216 children . from april 1984 to december 1987 , the french pediatric oncology society ( sfop ) organized a randomized trial for advanced-stage b-cell lymphoma without cns involvement to study the possibility of reducing the length of treatment to 4 months . after receiving the same three intensive six-drug induction courses based on high-dose fractionated cyclophosphamide , high-dose methotrexate ( hd mtx ) , and cytarabine in continuous infusion , patients were evaluated for remission . those who achieved complete remission ( cr ) were randomized between a long arm ( five additional courses with two additional drugs ; 16 weeks of treatment ) and a short arm ( two additional courses ; 5 weeks ) . for patients in partial remission ( pr ) , intensification of treatment was indicated . two hundred sixteen patients were registered : 15 stage ii nasopharyngeal and extensive facial tumors , 167 stage iii , and 34 stage iv , 20 of the latter having more than 25 % blast cells in bone marrow . the primary sites of involvement were abdomen in 172 , head and neck in 30 , thorax in two , and other sites in 12 . one hundred sixty-seven patients are alive in first cr with a minimum follow-up of 18 months ; four are lost to follow-up . eight patients died from initial treatment failure , 14 died from toxicity or deaths unrelated to tumor or treatment , and 27 relapsed . the event-free survival ( efs ) , with a median follow-up of 38 months , is 78 % ( se 3 ) for all the patients , 73 % ( se 11 ) for the stage ii patients , 80 % ( se 3 ) for the stage iii patients , and 68 % ( se 8 ) for the stage iv and acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) patients . one hundred sixty-six patients were randomized : 82 in the short arm and 84 in the long arm . efs is , respectively , 89 % and 87 % . statistical analysis confirms equivalence of both treatment arms with regard to efs . moreover , morbidity was lower in the short arm . this study confirms the high survival rate obtained in the previous lmb 0281 study without radiotherapy or debulking surgery and demonstrates the effectiveness of short treatment . 
a phase ii study of combined methotrexate and teniposide infusions prior to reinduction therapy in relapsed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia : a pediatric oncology group study . teniposide ( vm-26 ) can increase intracellular methotrexate ( mtx ) and its polyglutamate derivatives in vitro and thus has the potential to improve the therapeutic index of regimens containing mtx . in this phase ii study , children and adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) in first or second marrow relapse were randomly assigned to receive either simultaneous ( n = 11 ) or sequential ( n = 12 ) continuous infusions of mtx and vm-26 prior to reinduction . infusions of vm-26 were begun 12 hours after completion of mtx infusion in the sequential group . dosages were individually adjusted to maintain plasma concentration levels of 10 microns for mtx and 15 microns for vm-26 ; total infusion times were 24 and 72 hours , respectively . significant toxicity in the first six patients who received the scheduled 72-hour vm-26 infusion ( including one drug-related death ) prompted a 50 % reduction in infusion duration . the reduced dose was associated with similar but more manageable toxicity . examination of bone marrow aspirates 10 days after therapy was begun showed one complete and two partial marrow remissions ; a fourth patient who had an aplastic marrow on day 10 received no further chemotherapy and had a complete remission ( cr ) documented on day 31 . there was no obvious clinical advantage associated with either infusion schedule , although small sample sizes preclude definitive conclusions . the 17 % response rate to the mtx/vm -26 therapeutic window in patients with refractory disease suggests the need for further investigation to evaluate alternative schedules and concomitant therapy for this drug combination . 
fludarabine : a new agent with marked cytoreductive activity in untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia . thirty-three patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) with advanced rai stage ( iii-iv ) or progressive rai stage ( 0-ii ) disease were treated with fludarabine as a single agent . eleven patients ( 33 % ) obtained a complete remission ( cr ) , 13 ( 39 % ) a clinical cr with residual nodules as the only evidence of disease ( nodular partial remission [ pr ] ) , and two patients ( 6 % ) achieved a pr for a total response rate of 79 % . response was rapid , usually occurring after three to six courses of treatment . the major morbidity was infection . febrile episodes occurred in 13 % of the courses ( pneumonia 6 % , minor infection 4 % , and transient fever of undocumented cause 3 % ) . fludarabine appears to be the most cytoreductive single agent so far studied in cll . 
a randomized trial of cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin versus vinblastine , cisplatin , and etoposide in the treatment of advanced germ cell tumors of the testis : a southwest oncology group study this is a southwest oncology group ( swog ) prospective randomized trial of cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin ( pvb ) versus vinblastine , cisplatin , and etoposide ( vp-16 ) ( vpv ) in the treatment of advanced germ cell tumors of the testis . the study objective was to determine what effect the replacement of bleomycin with vp-16 has on complete response ( cr ) , survival , and drug toxicity . one hundred sixty-nine patients were registered and randomized . of these patients , 160 were assessable for response . all had histologically confirmed disseminated germ cell neoplasms of testicular origin . forty-six had minimal metastatic disease , and 114 had maximal disease . seventy-seven were randomized to pvb and 83 to vpv chemotherapy . there was no significant difference in pretreatment characteristics between the two arms with regard to tumor burden , histologic type , and overall performance status . patients received four courses of induction chemotherapy , either pvb ( cisplatin 120 mg/m2 day 3 , vinblastine 12 mg/m2 day 1 , bleomycin 15 u/m2 twice per week ) or vpv ( vinblastine 8 mg/m2 day 1 , cisplatin 120 mg/m2 day 3 , vp-16 50 mg/m2 days 2 to 5 ) . chemotherapy was given every 3 weeks . cytoreductive surgery was done postinduction if a chemotherapy cr was not achieved . there was no difference in the percentage of patients achieving a disease-free status between pvb ( 77 % ) and vpv ( 73 % ) . the mean leukocyte nadir was similar for both treatments , but the mean platelet nadir was significantly lower ( p = .003 ) in the vpv arm . all bleomycin-related toxicities ( pulmonary , mucositis , skin ) were avoided in the vpv arm . we conclude that bleomycin can be replaced in first-line therapy for advanced germ cell tumors without sacrificing efficacy and with the advantage of avoiding unnecessary drug toxicity . 
effect of dietary alpha-linolenic acid on growth , metastasis , fatty acid profile and prostaglandin production of two murine mammary adenocarcinomas . the purpose of this study was to determine whether dietary ( n-3 ) fatty acids would affect mammary tumor growth and metastasis . weanling female balb/c mice were fed diets that contained 10 % corn oil ( co ) , linseed oil ( lo ) or a fish oil-corn oil mix ( fo ) for 3-8 wk prior to receiving subcutaneous injections of one of two syngeneic mammary tumor cell types ( 410 and 410.4 ) . tumor growth was assessed by monitoring mean tumor diameter and tumor weight upon removal . feeding lo , but not fo , reduced the growth ( p less than 0.05 ) of 410.4 mammary tumors compared with growth in those fed co . metastasis data paralleled the tumor growth rate . feeding lo and fo enhanced ( p less than 0.005 ) incorporation of ( n-3 ) fatty acids into tumors . tumor prostaglandin e ( pge ) production was reduced ( p less than 0.005 ) by lo and fo , compared with co . fo feeding reduced 410.4 tumor pge synthesis more ( p less than 0.05 ) than lo feeding , yet tumor growth was only inhibited by lo . these data suggest an inhibitory effect of dietary linolenic acid [ i.e. , 18:3 ( n-3 ) ] on mammary tumor growth and metastasis . however , this effect did not directly correlate with diet-induced changes in pge synthesis . 
adrenal hormones and the anorectic response and adaptation of rats to amino acid imbalance . the role of adrenal function in the anorectic response and adaptation of rats to a diet with an isoleucine ( ile ) imbalance was investigated . in the first of four experiments , rats were fed a mildly ile-imbalanced diet after treatment with metyrapone , and inhibitor of glucocorticoid synthesis . in two separate experiments , rats were presented with either a mildly or severely ile-imbalanced diet ( 4.93 and 9.86 % imbalanced amino acid mixture , respectively ) after bilateral adrenalectomy . finally , the effects of ics 205-930 , a serotonin-3 receptor antagonist , on the intake of mildly ile-imbalanced diet were tested in adrenalectomized animals . in each experiment a 2 x 2 factorial design was used . neither metyrapone nor adrenalectomy altered the initial depression in the intake of an imbalanced diet . the adaptation phase in the response of adrenalectomized rats fed a mildly ile-imbalanced diet was not different from that of controls , but adrenalectomized rats fed severely ile-imbalanced diets were unable to adapt . adrenalectomy did not alter the anti-anoretic activity of ics 205-930 in this model . these results suggest that adrenal hormones are not necessary for the initial anoretic response or adaptation of rats to an ile-imbalanced diet , nor are they implicated in the anti-anorectic effect of serotonin-3 blockade . 
a preliminary report of arthroscopic findings following acute condylar trauma standard therapy in orthopedics dictates that joints with suspected hemarthrosis be considered for irrigation or exploration , especially when immobilization is part of the treatment plan . in this preliminary report , 14 patients who had condylar/subcondylar fractures underwent superior joint space arthroscopy as part of the evaluation and treatment of their fractures . in all but two patients , blood was found in the superior joint space . length of time from injury to time of examination correlated with the quantities of blood found . the severity and direction of the blow seemed to influence the findings in the joints . synovial ecchymosis was a consistent finding . the disc appeared to be grossly intact and within the glenoid fossa in all cases , even when the condyle was grossly displaced . these findings raise questions about the role of direct disc injury as a source of postoperative temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) symptoms , as well as about the practice of immobilization of fractures immediately after trauma . further studies will be necessary to compare the treatment results in patients who have had arthroscopy versus those who have not . 
effects of specific mu and kappa opiate tolerance and abstinence on hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis secretion in the rat . chronic administration of opiates to rats results in hpa axis tolerance and abstinence-induced hypersecretion . the effects of specific mu and kappa tolerance and withdrawal on the functional secretion of the hpa axis were evaluated in this study . adult male rats were injected s.c. twice daily with saline , morphine or u50 ,488 for 5 days . serum adrenocorticotrophic hormone ( acth ) or corticosterone ( cs ) were determined by radioimmunoassay as measures of hpa axis function . tolerance to morphine ( 10 mg/kg ) and u50 ,488 ( 1 mg/kg ) , but no cross-tolerance , was observed suggesting the development of mu - or kappa-specific tolerance , respectively . tolerance does not occur at the pituitary or adrenal levels after these paradigms because acth and cs responses to exogenous corticotropin-releasing factor and acth , respectively , were not attenuated . cs secretion in response to novelty stress was not affected by either chronic opiate treatment , but the circadian variation of cs levels was slightly blunted after chronic morphine . in contrast , the elevation of cs secretion by quipazine ( 0.5 mg/kg ) and physostigmine ( 0.1 mg/kg ) was attenuated after chronic u50 ,488 , but not morphine administration . both spontaneous and antagonist-precipitated withdrawal from morphine , but not u50 ,488 , resulted in elevation of cs levels . low doses of morphine suppressed morphine abstinence-induced cs hypersecretion , whereas , u50 ,488 and clonidine had no effect . in conclusion , alterations of hpa axis function occur during chronic mu or kappa opiate administration that are receptor-specific and involve multiple neural controls of the hpa axis . 
pharmacological characterization of ly233053 : a structurally novel tetrazole-substituted competitive n-methyl-d-aspartic acid antagonist with a short duration of action . this study reports the activity of a structurally novel excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist , ly233053 [ cis - ( + - ) -4 - [ ( 2h-tetrazol-5-yl ) methyl ] piperidine-2-carboxylic acid ] , the first tetrazole-containing competitive n-methyl-d-aspartic acid ( nmda ) antagonist . ly233053 potently inhibited nmda receptor binding to rat brain membranes as shown by the in vitro displacement of [ 3h ] cgs19755 ( ic50 = 107 + / - 7 nm ) . no appreciable affinity in [ 3h ] alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid ( ampa ) or [ 3h ] kainate binding assays was observed ( ic50 values greater than 10,000 nm ) . in vitro nmda receptor antagonist activity was further demonstrated by selective inhibition of nmda-induced depolarization in cortical wedges ( ic50 = 4.2 + / - 0.4 microm vs. 40 microm nmda ) . ly233053 was effective after in vivo systemic administration in a number of animal models . in neonatal rats , ly233053 selectively blocked nmda-induced convulsions ( ed50 = 14.5 mg/kg i.p. ) with a relatively short duration of action ( 2-4 hr ) . in pigeons , ly233053 potently antagonized ( ed50 = 1.3 mg/kg i.m. ) the behavioral suppressant effects of 10 mg/kg of nmda . however , a dose of 160 mg/kg , i.m. , was required to produce phencyclidine-like catalepsy in pigeons . in mice , ly233053 protected against maximal electroshock-induced seizures at lower doses ( ed50 = 19.9 mg/kg i.p. ) than those that impaired horizontal screen performance ( ed50 = 40.9 mg/kg i.p. ) . cholinergic and gabaergic neuronal degenerations after striatal infusion of nmda were prevented by single or multiple i.p. doses of ly233053 . in summary , the antagonist activity of ly233053 after systemic administration demonstrates potential therapeutic value in conditions of neuronal cell loss due to nmda receptor excitotoxicity . the relatively short duration of action of ly233053 may make this compound particularly advantageous as a neuroprotective agent in the treatment of acute conditions such as cerebral ischemia . 
effect of local inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid uptake in the dorsomedial hypothalamus on extracellular levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid and on stress-induced tachycardia : a study using microdialysis . previous studies involving local microinjection of drugs that interfere with gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) a receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition have led to the suggestion that endogenous gaba suppresses the activity of a sympatho-excitatory mechanism in the dorsomedial hypothalamus in rats . in this study , microdialysis was used to assess and to alter pharmacologically extracellular-levels of gaba within this region while simultaneously monitoring heart rate and blood pressure . in anesthetized rats , local microdialysis for 15 min with 2.5 , 10 and 40 mm nipecotic acid , an inhibitor of gaba uptake , caused concentration-related increases in gaba and taurine in the extracellular space , but no significant change in heart rate or arterial pressure . similar perfusion with 37.5 , 75 and 150 mm kcl caused concentration-related increases in gaba as well as aspartate , glutamate , taurine , glycine and alanine . only modest , variable increases in heart rate and no effect on arterial pressure were observed during the perfusions with high potassium . in conscious rats , unilateral microdialysis of the dorsomedial hypothalamus with 0.5 mm nipecotic acid for 2 to 2.5 hr before stress coupled with contralateral microinjection of muscimol ( 88 pmol/250 nl ) 5 min before stress significantly reduced air stress-induced tachycardia ; this reduction in tachycardia was associated with markedly elevated levels of gaba in dialysates collected from the dorsomedial hypothalamus . neither treatment alone significantly influenced stress-induced increases in heart rate , although perfusion with nipecotic acid alone evoked similar elevations in extracellular gaba . these results suggest that extracellular levels of endogenous gaba in the dorsomedial hypothalamus may regulate the cardiovascular response to stress . 
new biological properties of pyrroloquinoline quinone and its related compounds : inhibition of chemiluminescence , lipid peroxidation and rat paw edema . pyrroloquinoline quinone ( pqq ) inhibited the chemiluminescence ( cl ) from mouse peritoneal cells initiated by zymosan , carrageenin and n-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine and cl generated by the xanthine-xanthine oxidase reaction and the lipid peroxidation in the rat brain homogenate . the inhibitory activity of pqq was more potent than that of idebenone , alpha-tocopherol and ascorbic acid in all the three assay systems . in the xanthine-xanthine oxidase reaction , pqq had no effect on the formation of uric acid at the concentration of cl inhibition . these results suggest that pqq might have a radical scavenger-like activity . structure-activity relationship of pqq and its six related compounds showed that the 7 - and 9-carboxyl groups of pqq as well as the orthoquinone structure are responsible for the radical scavenger-like activity . in addition , the - nh group in the pyrrole ring of pqq seemed to be essential for the antilipid peroxidative activity in the rat brain homogenate . when administered i.p. , pqq inhibited the development of 0.1 % carrageenin-induced paw edema in rats . these results suggest that pqq might have therapeutic effects on various diseases , of which development or exacerbation has been known to be associated with radical oxygens . 
possible platelet contribution to pathogenesis of transient neonatal hyperammonaemia syndrome . the pathogenesis of the transient neonatal hyperammonaemia syndrome is largely unknown . the role of platelet activation was investigated in three preterm infants with this syndrome by non-invasive methods . in all three infants , urinary concentrations of beta-thromboglobulin and 11-dehydrothromboxane b2 levels were much higher during the hyperammonaemia than those in ten control preterm infants . it is possible that transient platelet activation occurs in the portal system of these infants , thereby causing the hyperammonaemia . 
upper gastrointestinal bleeding in relation to previous use of analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . catalan countries study on upper gastrointestinal bleeding to assess the risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with the use of individual non-narcotic analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) , a multicentre study of 875 cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding and 2682 hospital controls was done . with control for confounding factors , the overall odds ratio estimate for aspirin taken at least once during the week before the first symptom was 7.2 ( 95 % confidence interval 5.4-9 .6 ) . non-aspirin nsaids associated with upper gastrointestinal bleeding were diclofenac ( 7.9 [ 4.3-14 .6 ] ) , indomethacin ( 4.9 [ 2.0-12 .2 ] ) , naproxen ( 6.5 [ 2.2-19 .6 ] ) , and piroxicam ( 19.1 [ 8.2-44 .3 ] ) . paracetamol , propyphenazone , and dipyrone did not increase the risk . a previous history of gastrointestinal bleeding or peptic ulcer did not greatly affect odds ratio estimates , which differed according to sex and were higher for younger than for older patients . however , the incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding was higher among the elderly . 
application of pulsed and continuous wave 1.32 and 1.06 microns wavelengths of the nd : yag laser in the canine tracheobronchial tree : a comparative study . previous investigations have shown good clinical potential for the use of the 1.32 microns wavelength nd : yag laser because its soft tissue absorption is better than that of the 1.06 microns wavelength nd : yag laser . the 1.32 microns wavelength nd : yag laser has an absorption coefficient in water that is 10 times higher than the 1.06 microns wavelength nd : yag laser . a comparative in vivo study of laser soft tissue effects was performed by using the 1.32 microns wavelength and the 1.06 microns wavelength nd : yag lasers in a pulsed wave ( pw ) mode and continuous wave ( cw ) mode using a non-contact endoscopic delivery system . a standard 5 mm mucosal lesion was made in the canine tracheobronchial tree down to the level of the perichondrium . soft tissue and cartilage effects were examined by light and scanning electron microscopy , acutely , 1 week and 2 weeks after operation , and a comparison was made between the different laser modalities . to create similar lesions , higher energy was required when using the 1.06 microns wavelength nd : yag laser . soft tissue injury was greater with the 1.06 microns wavelength in cw mode , and no cartilage damage occurred in the pw mode . soft tissue and cartilage repair after 1 and 2 weeks was better with the 1.32 microns wavelength laser . in comparison , the co2 laser and the contact nd : yag laser proved to be more precise cutting tools than the 1.32 microns wavelength or the 1.06 microns wavelength nd : yag lasers . both nd : yag laser wavelengths were useful for coagulation and vaporization of tissues and blood vessels . more studies are needed to determine the effect of the new 1.32 microns wavelengths on endotracheal tumors . 
nd : yag-laser in the microsurgery of frontobasal meningiomas . forty-three patients with big frontobasal meningiomas underwent a microsurgical removal of the tumor . the 1.32 microns nd : yag-laser has proved useful in this prospective series particularly with the contactless shrinkage of the tumors and the necrotization of the dural and bony attachments . tumor shrinkage was achieved by radiating the tumor surface with the nd : yag-laser . this technique facilitated the microsurgical dissection and reduced the blood loss by half . the nd : yag-laser necrotization of the dural and bony attachments reduced the recurrence rate following grade two resections from 20 % to zero . the postoperative quality of life was excellent with a complete rehabilitation in 76 % of the patients . the use of the 1.32 microns nd : yag-laser improved significantly the results of microsurgery for frontobasal meningioma . 
trans-scleral application of a semiconductor diode laser . we used a diode laser with an output power of 1 w through a fiberoptic light pipe ( 200 microns diameter ) to deliver laser energy through the sclera of pigmented rabbits . ciliary body destruction occurred with energy levels of 300-400 mw and exposure time of 0.5 sec . retinal photocoagulation was achieved with energy levels of 200-500 mw in 0.5 sec . histologic examination of acute lesions demonstrated thermal destruction of ciliary body processes and retina . chorioretinal scar formation was observed clinically and histologically within 2-3 weeks . our data indicate that the transscleral diode laser may be used for destruction of the ciliary body processes or peripheral retinal coagulation in pigmented eyes . 
co2-welded venous anastomosis : enhancement of weld strength with heterologous fibrin glue . the milliwatt co2 laser was used to perform end-to-end anastomoses in canine jugular veins . there was a high disruption rate ( 50 % ) in laser-welded veins ( n = 10 ) . fibrin glue ( n = 17 ) , formed from human fresh-frozen plasma , enhanced the weld strength decreasing the disruption rate ( 18 % ) , resulting in an 82 % patency which nearly equaled the contralateral sutured vein patency ( 93 % ) . the bursting strength was improved with fibrin glue . transmural necrosis was present initially in all groups but extended for a longer distance in the vessel wall in laser-welded anastomoses . sutured anastomoses exhibited a greater inflammatory response . in laser-welded anastomoses endothelial cells were not as confluent as in sutured anastomoses by six weeks . carbon dioxide laser-welded end-to-end vein anastomoses appear to be impractical because they disrupt too easily . however , the addition of heterologous fibrin glue to the weld results in a reasonably strong anastomosis with histologic properties that may be beneficial in vein bypass grafts . 
prognostic value of immunocytologic detection of bone marrow metastases in neuroblastoma . background . morphologic evaluation of bone marrow for neuroblastoma cells is a routine and important component of clinical staging . specific immunostaining of malignant cells with monoclonal antibodies should be more sensitive , however , and may improve the detection of metastases and provide additional prognostic information . methods . we looked for tumor cells in bone marrow from 197 patients with newly diagnosed neuroblastoma , using immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies ( immunocytologic analysis ) and examination of smears and specimens obtained by trephine biopsy ( conventional analysis ) . results . routine smears and trephine-biopsy specimens were positive for tumor cells in 46 percent of the patients , whereas 67 percent were positive on immunocytologic analysis ( p less than 0.0001 ) . immunocytologic analysis detected bone marrow metastases in 34 percent of patients considered to have only localized or regional disease ( stage i , ii , or iii ) . it also identified tumor cells that were not detected by conventional analysis in patients with widespread disease ( stage iv or ivs ) . tumor content , as determined by immunocytologic analysis , predicted clinical outcome in relation to the age of the patient at diagnosis . patients with stage ii or iii disease diagnosed after one year of age who did not have occult marrow metastases did well , whereas those with metastases did poorly ( p = 0.006 ) . patients in whom stage iv disease was diagnosed before they were one year of age did well if bone marrow metastases were few or absent , but had poor survival if the marrow contained more than 0.02 percent tumor cells ( p = 0.03 ) . conclusions . immunocytologic analysis of bone marrow aspirates is more sensitive than conventional analysis in detecting tumor cells and provides prognostic information . the relations among marrow metastases , age at diagnosis , and clinical outcome illustrate the biologic heterogeneity of neuroblastoma . 
decreased osmotic stability of dystrophin-less muscle cells from the mdx mouse human x-linked duchenne and becker muscular dystrophies are due to defects in dystrophin , the product of an exceptionally large gene . although dystrophin has been characterized as a spectrin-like submembranous cytoskeletal protein , there is no experimental evidence for its function in the structural maintenance of muscle . current hypotheses attribute necrosis of dystrophin-less fibres in situ to mechanical weakening of the outer membrane , to an excessive influx of ca2 + ions , or to a combination of these two mechanism , possibly mediated by stretch-sensitive ion channels . using hypo-osmotic shock to determine stress resistance and a mouse model ( mdx ) for the human disease , we show that functional dystrophin contributes to the stability of both cultured myotubes and isolated mature muscle fibres . 
the mouse insulin-like growth factor type-2 receptor is imprinted and closely linked to the tme locus . t-associated maternal effect ( tme ) is the only known maternal-effect mutation in the mouse . the defect is nuclear-encoded and embryos that inherit a deletion of the tme locus from their mother die at day 15 of gestation . there are many genomically imprinted regions known in the mouse genome but so far no imprinted genes have been cloned . the tme locus is absent in two chromosome-17 deletion mutants , thp and the tlub2 , and its position has been localized using these deletions to a 1-cm region . we report here that the genes for insulin-like growth factor type-2 receptor ( igf2r ) and mitochondrial superoxide dismutase-2 ( sod-2 ) are absent from both deletions . probes for these genes and for plasminogen ( plg ) and t-complex peptide 1 ( tcp-1 ) were used in pulsed-field gel mapping to show that tme must lie within a region of 800-1 ,100 kb . we also demonstrate that embryos express igf2r only from the maternal chromosome , and that tcp-1 , plg and sod-2 are expressed from both chromosomes . therefore igf2r is imprinted and closely linked or identical to tme . 
serum and csf levels of il-2 , sil-2r , tnf-alpha , and il-1 beta in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis : expected lack of clinical utility . we measured interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , soluble il-2 receptor ( sil-2r ) , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , and interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) by elisa in paired sera and csf from 50 chronic progressive multiple sclerosis ( cpms ) patients during worsening disability , 19 patients with other neurologic diseases ( ond ) , and in sera from 40 healthy volunteers . in the cpms patients , 28 % ( 14/50 ) , 10 % ( 5/50 ) , 16 % ( 8/50 ) , and 6 % ( 3/50 ) had elevated serum levels of il-2 , sil-2r , tnf-alpha and il-1 beta , respectively , compared with healthy controls . the only analyte we detected in the csf was il-2 in 1 cpms patient ( 1/50 , 2 % ) . we also saw elevated serum sil-2r in 16 % ( 3/19 ) of ond patients . we found no significant difference in mean levels of serum sil-2r between the 3 groups . our study , the largest to date of cpms patients , shows that serum and csf levels of il-2 , sil-2r , tnf-alpha , or il-1 beta are not sensitive for , and the serum sil-2r level is not specific for , cpms . therefore , measurement of these analytes will not be clinically useful for therapeutic or prognostic purposes in the majority of cpms patients . 
brain and spinal cord hemorrhage in long-term survivors of malignant pediatric brain tumors : a possible late effect of therapy . three children with malignant primary cns tumors treated with craniospinal radiotherapy developed intraparenchymal hemorrhages a median of 5 years following therapy in sites distant from the primary tumor . radical surgical procedures disclosed fresh and old hematoma , gliosis , and necrosis in all 3 patients and an aggregation of abnormal microscopic blood vessels in two . no tumor was found . all 3 patients remain in long-term ( greater than 10 years ) continuous remission . 
the efficacy of azathioprine in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis . we randomized 59 patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis to receive azathioprine ( aza ) 3.0 mg/kg daily or placebo in a double-masked therapeutic trial . analysis of data for predetermined primary outcome measures demonstrated a significant difference favoring aza for observed mean exacerbation rate after 2 years of therapy and time to deterioration in both ambulation index and kurtzke expanded disability status scale score . this study confirms a modest therapeutic benefit for azathioprine previously reported by other investigators . 
cerebral atrophy in habitual cocaine abusers : a planimetric ct study . we compared cranial cts of 35 habitual cocaine abusers , 16 self-reported 1st-time users , and 54 headache patients using linear planimetric measures . all patients met the following criteria : age 20 to 40 years , no polydrug abuse ( including alcohol ) , hiv seronegativity , normal albumin level , and no history of any other neurologic disease . the sex ratios and ages were not significantly different in the 3 groups . the planimetric measurements and calculated indices of cerebral atrophy were significantly different in the habitual cocaine abusers compared with the 2 other groups of patients . there were no differences between 1st-time cocaine users and controls . among the habitual cocaine abusers there was a positive correlation between the approximate duration of cocaine abuse and the calculated atrophy indices . the findings suggest that cerebral atrophy develops in chronic cocaine abusers , and the severity correlates with the duration of abuse . 
the effect of spine fusion on respiratory function in duchenne muscular dystrophy . serial measures of respiratory function were made in 17 patients with duchenne muscular dystrophy who underwent segmental spine fusion and in 22 patients who did not . no significant differences were observed between the 2 groups ( operated vs. nonoperated ) in terms of declining respiratory function . nonetheless , all operated patients reported either improved sitting comfort , appearance , or both . thus , our results suggest that there are distinct benefits from segmental spine fusion ; however , there was no salutary effect upon respiratory function either in the short term or after up to 5 years follow-up . 
quantification of magnetic resonance scans for hippocampal and parahippocampal atrophy in alzheimer 's disease the brains of patients with alzheimer 's disease ( ad ) invariably exhibit neuropathology in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex when examined postmortem . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) offers a noninvasive , high-resolution method for quantifying volumetric changes in the ad brain antemortem . eight patients diagnosed with probable ad and 7 age-matched controls had mri scans and were tested on a battery of cognitive and olfactory tests . the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex ( parahippocampal gyrus ) showed significant atrophy , with over 40 % reduction in size . areas of the brain that are not highly involved in the degenerative state of ad , such as the striatum , did not show significant volumetric changes . hippocampal and parahippocampal gyrus volumes had the highest correlation with scores on the mini-mental state examination ( r = 0.89 ) , with lower correlations for a smell identification test ( r = 0.65 ) , odor match-to-sample test ( r = 0.72 ) , and a visual match-to-sample test ( r = 0.26 ) . 
dysgeusia , gustatory sweating , and crocodile tears syndrome induced by a cerebellopontine angle meningioma . facial nerve involvement in cerebellopontine angle tumors , both during their development and after excision , may be expressed in irreversible dysfunction of the parasympathetic pathways . the exact location of the lesion along the efferent nerve fibers can be established through evaluation of the functional level of those organs supplied by the cholinergic motor secretory components . this report deals with a female patient in whom peripheral facial palsy developed shortly after removal of a right cerebellopontine angle meningioma . she had slight facial asymmetry and deafness in the right ear and complained of prandial flush and sweating of the right malar area . occult ipsilateral hyposalivation and hypolacrimation were diagnosed . in patients with seventh and ninth cranial nerve pathoses , evaluation of the end organs that are supplied by their associated autonomous nerve fibers is mandatory to prevent late ocular and oral sequelae . 
recurrent peripheral facial nerve palsy after dental procedures . peripheral facial palsy is an uncommon complication of dental procedures . most cases begin immediately after dental anesthesia and resolve within 12 hours . no report of recurrent facial palsy with dental manipulations has previously been described . we report a patient with two episodes of peripheral facial palsy , 2 years apart , developing within 24 hours of dental procedures . a third episode of contralateral facial weakness developed 3 years after the second event . this event was not related to dental manipulations . although the exact mechanism is not known , dental manipulations may rarely result in precipitation of recurrent bell 's palsy . 
dexamethasone as an adjunct in oropharyngeal obstruction in a patient with leukemia . incipient airway obstruction due to fulminating bacterial infection of pharyngeal tissues requires prompt and definitive intervention . a case is presented in which dexamethasone was a key adjunct to antibiotic therapy in averting this problem in a severely neutropenic patient with acute leukemia . 
subacute necrotizing sialadenitis . twelve cases of a heretofore unreported minor salivary gland disease have been reported . although an infectious cause is suspected for this self-limiting inflammatory process , the actual cause remains unknown . it typically presents as a unilateral , erythematous , nonuclerated but painful , solitary firm swelling of the posterior hard palate . patients are most often young white men who have spent several weeks in a new environment with a group of people living in close quarters such as military barracks . 
radiculomegaly of canines and congenital cataracts -- a syndrome ? radiculomegaly of single teeth is very uncommon . our survey indicates that the canine tooth is most frequently affected . although illustrated in a number of texts of dental anatomy , there is a lack of detailed case reports . 
short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis a prospective study , with an attempted 24-month-post-treatment follow-up , of children with tuberculosis ( tb ) treated with short course chemotherapy ( scc ) for 6 months was carried out because published experience of scc in childhood tb was limited . all children in port moresby diagnosed as having tb between november , 1984 , and november , 1986 , entered the trial . of the 639 children 165 ( 26 % ) were younger than 2 years old . of these , 227 ( 35 % ) had extrapulmonary tb ( peripheral lymph node , 110 ; central nervous system , 43 ; abdominal , 27 ; miliary , 16 ; bone and joint , 11 ; pleural , 11 ; polyserositis , 9 ) . clinical response to scc was rapid . adverse drug reactions occurred in 15 ( 2 % ) , mainly to streptomycin . twelve ( 2 % ) died , 38 ( 6 % ) transferred out and 145 ( 28 % of the 518 who did not die , transfer or live too far from a treatment centre ) defaulted . three hundred seventy-three ( 58 % ) completed a 2-month course of daily rifampin , isoniazid , pyrazinamide and streptomycin followed by a 4-month course of twice weekly rifampin and isoniazid . a further 71 ( 11 % ) had their treatment modified because of their distance from a treatment center . only 70 ( 19 % ) of the 373 children available for post-treatment follow-up attended the every-3-month follow-up visits for 24 months , although 223 ( 60 % ) attended one or more of the follow-up visits . seven of the 373 children relapsed , mostly within 3 months . five of these children had been irregular with their treatment . scc for childhood tb is safe and effective for pulmonary and extrapulmonary disease . 
hemorrhoids . a practical approach to an aggravating problem . although hemorrhoids are considered a minor medical problem , they may cause considerable discomfort and anxiety . fortunately , treatment is often simple and surgery is rarely necessary . in this practical article , dr cocchiara describes internal and external hemorrhoids , a classification system , and treatment choices based on the degree of involvement . 
the butterfly rash and the malar flush . what diseases do these signs reflect ? the butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders . systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs . in pellagra , symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body . erysipelas produces brawny , fiery red facial lesions , and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption . lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern , and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face . carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration , and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction . deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation . 
would you recognize celiac axis syndrome ? since its original description , celiac axis syndrome has been a topic of debate . clinical findings include postprandial abdominal pain , weight loss , and an epigastric bruit . diagnosis is often made by exclusion and is confirmed by lateral aortography . the role of surgery in treating celiac axis syndrome is controversial . 
physiological induction and reversal of focus formation and tumorigenicity in nih 3t3 cells [ published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 apr 15 ; 88 ( 8 ) :3510 ] nih 3t3 cells undergo morphological transformation in response to conditions of constrained growth , such as occur in low serum concentrations or at confluence . transformation is expressed in a small fraction of the cells by the appearance of discrete foci of multiplying cells on a confluent monolayer of quiescent cells . we isolated and expanded cell populations from three dense and three light foci . cells from each of these populations efficiently reproduced foci of the same morphotype when grown on a background of nontransformed nih 3t3 cells . using cultures derived from one of the dense foci ( subline d/2 ) , we found that the number of focus-forming units was stable and the cells remained tumorigenic when they were subjected to repeated thrice-weekly passage in 2 % calf serum . however , equivalent passage in 10 % calf serum eventually rendered the cells incapable of both focus production and tumor formation . the results show that the capacity to produce tumors as well as morphological transformation are produced as a response to physiological constraints of growth and/or metabolism in the absence of carcinogens and that both properties can be reversed by lifting the constraints . this behavior is typical of an adaptational response and , taken together with other supporting evidence , shows that tumorigenesis does not require conventional genetic alteration . 
cation-dependent mannose 6-phosphate receptor contains two internalization signals in its cytoplasmic domain [ published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 feb 15 ; 88 ( 4 ) :1591 ] the signals required for rapid internalization of the bovine cation-dependent mannose 6-phosphate receptor have been localized to two distinct regions of the 67-amino acid cytoplasmic domain . one signal includes phenylalanine 13 and phenylalanine 18 , while the other involves tyrosine 45 . the former signal is more potent than the latter , but both must be present for the maximal rate of receptor internalization . each signal shares similarities with the known internalization signals of other recycling receptors . 
beneficial effects of x-irradiation on recovery of lesioned mammalian central nervous tissue . we examined the potential of x-irradiation , at clinical dose levels , to manipulate the cellular constituents and thereby change the consequences of transection injury to adult mammalian central nervous tissue ( rat olfactory bulb ) . irradiation resulted in reduction or elimination of reactive astrocytes at the site of incision provided that it was delivered within a defined time window postinjury . under conditions optimal for the elimination of gliosis ( 15-18 days postinjury ) , irradiation of severed olfactory bulbs averted some of the degenerative consequences of lesion . we observed that irradiation was accompanied by prevention of tissue degeneration around the site of lesion , structural healing with maintenance of the typical cell lamination , and rescue of some axotomized mitral cells ( principal bulb neurons ) . thus radiation resulted in partial preservation of normal tissue morphology . it is postulated that intrusive cell populations are generated in response to injury and reactive astrocytes are one such group . our results suggest that selective elimination of these cells by irradiation enabled some of the regenerative processes that are necessary for full recovery to maintain their courses . the cellular targets of these cells , their modes of intervention in recovery , and the potential role of irradiation as a therapeutic modality for injured central nervous system are discussed . 
a long terminal repeat-containing retrotransposon is mobilized during hybrid dysgenesis in drosophila virilis . a hybrid dysgenesis syndrome similar to those described in drosophila melanogaster occurs in drosophila virilis when a laboratory stock is crossed to a wild strain collected in the batumi region of georgia ( u.s.s.r ) . mutations in various loci obtained during these crosses are presumably induced by the insertion of dna sequences . we have cloned an induced white mutation and characterized the insertion sequence responsible for the mutant phenotype . this sequence is a 10.6-kilobase ( kb ) transposable element we have named ulysses . this element is flanked by unusually large 2.1-kb long terminal repeats . ulysses also contains other landmarks characteristic of the retrotransposon family , such as a trna-binding site adjacent to the 5 ' long terminal repeat and open reading frames encoding putative products with homology to the reverse transcriptase , protease , and integrase domains typical of proteins encoded by vertebrate retroviruses . some of the mutations obtained do not contain a copy of the ulysses element at the mutant locus , suggesting that a different transposable element may be responsible for the mutation . therefore , ulysses may not be the primary cause of the entire dysgenic syndrome , and its mobilization may be the result of activation by an independent mobile element . 
neuropathological changes in transgenic mice carrying copies of a transcriptionally activated mos protooncogene [ published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 may 1 ; 88 ( 9 ) :4060 ] independent transgenic mouse lines carrying the mouse mos protooncogene linked to a retroviral transcriptional control sequence display behavioral abnormalities including circling , head tilting , and head bobbing . this dominant phenotype shows various degrees of penetrance in different transgenic founder animals and lines . neuronal and axonal degeneration , gliosis , and inflammatory infiltrates are found in all transgenic mouse lines in which behavioral traits are present . recordings of auditory-evoked potentials in mice of one of these lines demonstrate that transgenic mice are deaf ; in these mice spiral ganglia degenerate and most of the cochlear hair cells are absent . by using an s1 nuclease protection assay , we have detected rna expression of the transgene in all tissues examined and , in particular , at high levels in brain . in situ hybridization experiments show that mos expression can be detected in specific areas of the central nervous system . lesions are present in areas with demonstrable overexpression of mos . 
human tumor necrosis factor alpha gene regulation by virus and lipopolysaccharide . we have identified a region of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) gene promoter that is necessary for maximal constitutive , virus-induced , and lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) - induced transcription . this region contains three sites that match an nf-kappa b binding-site consensus sequence . we show that these three sites specifically bind nf-kappa b in vitro , yet each of these sites can be deleted from the tnf-alpha promoter with little effect on the induction of the gene by virus or lps . moreover , when multimers of these three sites are placed upstream from a truncated tnf-alpha promoter , or a heterologous promoter , an increase in the basal level of transcription is observed that is influenced by sequence context and cell type . however , these multimers are not sufficient for virus or lps induction of either promoter . thus , unlike other virus - and lps-inducible promoters that contain nf-kappa b binding sites , these sites from the tnf-alpha promoter are neither required nor sufficient for virus or lps induction . comparison of the sequence requirements of virus induction of the human tnf-alpha gene in mouse l929 and p388d1 cells reveals significant differences , indicating that the sequence requirements for virus induction of the gene are cell type-specific . however , the sequences required for virus and lps induction of the gene in a single cell type , p388d1 , overlap . 
repair of o6-ethylguanine in dna protects rat 208f cells from tumorigenic conversion by n-ethyl-n-nitrosourea . o6-ethylguanine ( o6-etgua ) is one of about a dozen different alkylation products formed in the dna of cells exposed to the alkylating n-nitroso carcinogen n-ethyl-n-nitrosourea ( etnu ) . we have evaluated selectively the relative capacity of cells for the specific enzymatic repair of o6-etgua as a determinant for the probability of malignant conversion . eleven o6-etgua-repair-proficient ( r + ) variant subclones were isolated from the o6-etgua-repair-deficient ( r - ) clonal rat fibroblast line 208f by selection for resistance to 1,3-bis - ( 2-chloroethyl ) -1 - nitrosourea ( frequency , approximately equal to 10 ( -5 ) . contrary to the 208f wild-type cells , all variants expressed o6-methylguanine-dna methyltransferase activity , while both kinds of cells were deficient for repair of the dna ethylation products o2 - and o4-ethylthymine . after exposure to etnu ( less than or equal to 500 micrograms/ml ; 20 min ) , cells were analyzed for the formation of piled-up foci in monolayer culture and of anchorage-independent colonies in semisolid agar medium . depending on the etnu concentration , the frequencies of piled-up foci and agar colonies , respectively , in the r + variants were as low as 1/28th and 1/56th of those in the r - wild type . contrasting with the cells from r + variant-derived agar colonies , cells from 208f ( r - ) agar colonies gave rise to highly malignant tumors when implanted subcutaneously into syngeneic rats . no significant differences in the frequencies of piled-up foci were found between wild-type and variant cells after exposure to the major reactive metabolite of benzo [ a ] pyrene , ( + ) -7 beta , 8 alpha-dihydroxy-9 ,10 alpha-epoxy-7 ,8,9,10 alpha-tetrahydrobenzo [ a ] pyrene , for which stable binding to guanine o6 in cellular dna has not been observed . the relative capacity of cells for repair of o6-alkylguanine is , therefore , a critical determinant for their risk of malignant conversion by n-nitroso carcinogens . 
meiotic recombination between yeast artificial chromosomes yields a single clone containing the entire bcl2 protooncogene . the common translocation found in human follicular lymphoma , t ( 14 ; 18 ) ( q32 ; q21 ) , results in deregulation of the bcl2 protoonocogene . the isolation of the intact gene would provide an essential substrate to analyze the molecular basis of this malignancy . pulsed-field gel electrophoresis suggested that this three-exon gene was several hundred kilobases ( kb ) long . therefore , a library of yeast artificial chromosome ( yac ) clones was screened to isolate the intact bcl2 gene . two clones , ya85b6 ( 200 kb ) and yb206a6 ( 700 kb ) , were isolated by using polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) assays specific for exon i/ii and exon iii , respectively . however , neither yac contained the entire bcl2 locus . since the two yacs were found to overlap by 60 kb , we sought to take advantage of the high recombination frequency in yeast and induce physical recombination between the two clones . cells containing each yac were mated and induced to undergo meiotic division and sporulation . analysis of the resulting tetrads revealed a spore containing a single recombinant yac of 800 kb . pcr assays and southern blotting demonstrated that this recombined yac contained the entire approximately 230-kb bcl2 gene . furthermore , probe order was conserved and there was no evidence of overt rearrangements or deletions . these results indicate the feasibility of reconstructing large genomic segments with overlapping yac clones to study genes spanning hundreds of kilobases . 
cytogenetic damage induced by folate deficiency in mice is enhanced by caffeine . folate deficiency in swiss mice increased the incidence of micronuclei in peripheral blood erythrocytes , indicating increased chromosomal damage in nucleated erythrocyte precursors . caffeine enhanced the incidence of micronuclei in blood and bone marrow by up to 5-fold in folate-deficient mice at doses that did not significantly alter the micronucleus frequency in the presence of adequate dietary folate . the lower dose of caffeine used in this study ( 75 mg/kg ) approaches doses received by humans who consume large amounts of caffeinated beverages . since folate deficiency and caffeine consumption are highly prevalent in the human population , the potential for a similar interaction in man should be evaluated . 
cervical muscle myoelectric response to acute experimental sternocleidomastoid pain . a method is presented for investigating the response of passive and active muscle to experimentally induced deep muscle pain . ten healthy adult males performed multiple , submaximal isometric neck flexion tasks before and after pain had been induced in the sternocleidomastoid ( scm ) muscle by injecting 5 ml of a hypertonic ( 5 % ) saline solution . a similar volume of isotonic saline was injected into the contralateral muscle as a control . cervical myoelectric signal ( mes ) root-mean-square ( rms ) response to each injection was recorded from eight neck muscles over 8 minutes . the subject rated perceived pain at regular intervals using a visual analog scale ( vas ) . sternocleidomastoid pain , which reached a mean of 36 mm on the 100-mm vas 2 minutes after the injection , resulted in significantly increased ( 1-2 microv , p less than 0.05 ) rms mes in the otherwise relaxed scm muscle during the first 2 minutes . this was followed by a gradual return to control values after 5 minutes . a similar trend in mes was found for the active scm muscle during a 10 % maximum voluntary contraction ( mvc ) isometric neck flexion effort . thus , acute deep muscle pain caused subtle , yet systematic , changes in motor output in both the relaxed and active painful muscle , and its synergists and antagonists . 
the neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders . care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery . if the clinical picture can not logically be explained by the radiologic findings , further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder . investigations may include electrophysiologic tests , transcranial magnetic stimulation , cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) analysis , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined . 
anterior cervical discectomy and fusion . a retrospective review of 94 patients who had undergone anterior cervical discectomy and fusion was performed to analyze the result in patients who had a diagnosis of posterolateral spondylosis , disc herniation , or both . although in 23 of 94 patients additional adjacent asymptomatic levels of spondylosis were noted , only the symptomatic levels were addressed in the 94 cases . postoperatively two cases of dysphagia were noted , as well as a 4 % pseudarthrosis rate . there was an 88 % good or excellent result when no additional spondylosis was present , but only a 60 % good or excellent result when just the symptomatic levels were addressed , leaving unoperated adjacent levels of spondylosis . 
surgical management of cervical soft disc herniation . a comparison between the anterior and posterior approach . anterior cervical fusion was initially described in the 1950s for cervical spondylotic radiculopathy . the indications for this procedure in the management of soft disc herniation have not been clearly defined . in addition , controversy exists as to whether a cervical soft herniation should be managed by an anterior approach or a posterior cervical laminotomy-foraminotomy . the authors report the results of a prospective study comparing anterior discectomy and fusion to posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy for the management of soft cervical disc herniation . twenty-eight patients underwent anterior discectomy and fusion ( robinson horseshoe graft ) while 16 patients underwent posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy . the disc herniations were classified into two types . type i were single level anterolateral herniations ( 33 patients ) while type ii were central soft disc herniations ( 11 patients ) . clinically , patients with type i herniations manifested signs and symptoms of radiculopathy while patients with type ii herniations manifested signs of myelopathy or neck pain and bilateral upper extremity paresthesias in 4 patients . confirmatory studies were myelography in 12 patients , myelography combined with computed tomography ( ct ) in 26 patients , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in 6 patients . for type i herniations , 17 patients underwent anterior fusion while 16 patients had a posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy . the 11 patients classified as type ii herniation all underwent anterior discectomy and fusion . there were 27 men and 17 women . the age range was 21 to 52 years ( mean , 41 years ) . the follow-up was 1.6 to 8.2 years ( mean , 4.2 years ) . 
injury biomechanics of the human cervical column . in this study , the authors have developed a technique to replicate clinically relevant traumatic cervical spine injuries and determined the injury biomechanics . because of the importance of compressive forces in neck injuries , this research was conducted using compression as the primary load vector . six fresh human cadaveric head-neck complexes were prepared by fixing the distal end in methylmethacrylate . tests were done with varying loading rates to include quasistatic and dynamic conditions . for quasistatic experiments , the proximal end was fixed to the piston of the testing device . in dynamic tests , the cranium was unconstrained , and to maintain stability , the effects of the spinal musculature were simulated by means of pulleys , deadweights , and springs in the anterior and posterior parts of the head-neck complex . quasistatic tests conducted at a rate of 2.0 mm/sec produced cervical spine trauma at forces ranging from 1.7 to 2.3 kn , with deformations ranging from 2.2 to 3.7 cm . the specimens were deep-frozen at the level of injury , preserving the local deformation of the tissues to enable a detailed evaluation immediately after the injury . dynamic tests conducted at velocities of 3.2 to 5.7 m/sec resulted in impact injuries at one level of the head-neck complex . the applied forces at the vertex were considerably higher than those recorded at the distal end . the failure deformations for both the quasistatic ( 2.2-3 .7 cm ) and dynamic ( 1.7-3 .2 cm ) tests , however , were found to be similar , suggesting that the human head-neck complex is a deformation-sensitive structure . 
gunshot wounds to the cervical spine . a retrospective review was performed on 28 patients with low-velocity gunshot wounds to the cervical spine . these composed 31 % of all spinal gunshot wounds seen during the study period between 1979 and 1988 . surgical decompression did not seem to improve neurologic recovery in either the incomplete or complete patients . neurologic recovery also appeared to be unaffected by the presence of retained intracanal bullet fragments . the authors found no advantage to routine neck exploration of this penetrating injury . complications were seen in 93 % of the patients . most complications were thromboembolic , pulmonary , and urinary tract infections . no cases of instability occurred as a direct result of the gunshot wound . no deaths occurred in this series . two cases of posttraumatic syrinxes were diagnosed . the authors ' current treatment recommendations for these patients include selective wound management and observation of retained intracanal bullet fragments in patients with complete lesions . surgical decompression after this injury is not recommended . 
evaluation of current extrication orthoses in immobilization of the unstable cervical spine . an experiment was designed to evaluate the comparative stabilizing efficacy of several widely used semi-rigid orthoses applied to unstable fresh cadaver cervical spines subject to load . cadaver specimens were surgically destabilized at the c4-5 segment . lateral radiographs of the destabilized spine were obtained before and after collar placement and after the application of a 5-pound flexion force . data analysis employing a one-way analysis of variance showed no statistically significant difference in the necloc 's , philadelphia collar 's , or the stifneck 's ability to stabilize the cervical spine against a deforming flexion force ( p greater than 0.05 ) . they all provide translational stability while allowing angular changes to occur with application of the flexion force . the philadelphia collar halo system is statistically superior to all three of the aforementioned collars in prevention of both translation and sagittal rotation ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
ligamentous laxity across c0-c1-c2 complex . axial torque-rotation characteristics until failure . the axial torque until failure of the ligamentous occipito-atlanto-axial complex ( c0-c1-c2 ) subjected to axial angular rotation ( theta ) was characterized using a biaxial mts system . a special fixture and gearbox that permitted right axial rotation of the specimen until failure without imposing any additional constraints were designed to obtain the data . the average values for the axial rotation and torque at the point of maximum resistance were , respectively , 68.1 degrees and 13.6 n-m . the specimens offered minimal resistance ( approximately 0.5 n-m ) , up to an average axial rotation of 21 degrees across the complex . the torque-angular rotation ( t-theta ) curve can be divided into four regions : regions of least and steadily increasing resistances , a transition zone that connects these two regions , and the increasing resistance region to the point of maximum resistance . the regions of least and steadily increasing resistances may be represented by two straight lines with average slopes of 0.028 and 0.383 n-m/degree , respectively . post-test dissection of the specimens disclosed the following . the point of maximum resistance corresponded roughly to the value of axial rotation at which complete bilateral rotary dislocation of the c1-c2 facets occurred . the types of injuries observed were related to the magnitude of axial rotation imposed on a specimen during testing . soft-tissue injuries alone ( like stretch/rupture of the capsular ligaments , subluxation of the c1-c2 facets , etc. ) were confined to specimens rotated up to or close to the point of maximum resistance . the specimens that were subjected to rotations up to the point of maximum resistance of the curve spontaneously reduced completely on removal from the testing apparatus . spontaneous reduction was not possible for specimens tested slightly beyond their points of maximum resistance . 
prognostic significance of serosal invasion in carcinoma of the stomach . two hundred and seventy-seven patients with advanced carcinoma of the stomach invading the serosa were studied with regard to the relationship between the length of the serosal invasion ( lsi ) and prognosis , with a division made between expanding and infiltrative types of tumors . among patients with expanding types of tumors , five year survival rates were 40 per cent in patients with lsi less than 4.0 centimeters , 33 per cent in patients with lsi 4.1 to 6.0 centimeters and 13.0 per cent in patients with lsi more than 6.0 centimeters . among those patients with infiltrative types of tumors , those with less than 2.0 centimeters of lsi had a better prognosis ( five year survival rate of 53 per cent ) , whereas those patients with a lsi more than 2.0 centimeters had a very poor prognosis ( five year survival rate of less than 20 per cent ) and the significant lsi on prognosis was found to be 2.0 centimeters . involvement of the lymph node and metastasis to the liver were not affected by lsi , whereas the rates of peritoneal dissemination and direct invasion to neighboring organs increased with an increase in lsi . knowledge of these factors facilitates the planning of postoperative treatment . 
isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening for short bowel syndrome . because of improvements in supportive care , many infants now survive massive intestinal loss and have short bowel syndrome . unfortunately , some survivors are left with an insufficient amount of intestine and can not be weaned from total parenteral nutrition . an isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening procedure was used to treat surgically two such infants with 25 centimeters of remaining small intestine and absent ileocecal valves . this surgical technique longitudinally divides the short , dilated small intestine into two smaller , parallel lumens that are anastomosed end to end . this procedure preserves all mucosa , prolongs transit time by doubling intestinal length and corrects the ineffective peristalsis by tapering the dilated intestine . the lengthening technique can be performed because of the anatomic division of the intestinal vasculature within two leaves of the mesentery . longitudinal division between the two leaves maintains vasculature to each side of the intestine . the isoperistaltic intestinal lengthening procedure , as it was successfully applied to two infants , is described in detail . 
prophylaxis of deep venous thrombosis after acute abdominal operation . two hundred and forty-five patients who underwent acute extensive abdominal operations were randomized into three regimens to achieve optimal prophylaxis of postoperative thromboembolic complications . all of the patients were screened by the 125i-fibrinogen uptake test for seven days and if the phlebographic findings were positive . of 81 patients receiving low dose heparin , 12 had thromboembolism . of 79 receiving a combination of low dose heparin and graded compression stockings , two had thromboembolism , and of 85 receiving a combination of dextran and graded compression stockings , 13 had this complication . this difference is significant in favor of the second treatment ( p = 0.013 ) . it is concluded that the combination of low dose heparin and graded compression stockings is an effective way to prevent thromboembolism after acute abdominal operations . 
effect of closing dead space on incidence of seroma after mastectomy . seromas are a significant cause of morbidity after modified radical mastectomy . the effect of closing dead space by suturing skin flaps to underlying muscle combined with early removal ( 48 hours postoperatively ) of closed suction drains on formation of the seroma was evaluated prospectively in 37 patients . thirty-three underwent modified radical mastectomy for invasive carcinoma while four underwent total mastectomy with a level 1 axillary dissection for multifocal intraductal carcinoma . seromas occurred in three , all were minor , two required one aspiration only and one required two aspirations . two were seromas of the lower flap while one was an axillary seroma . except for one patient who had a wound hematoma develop , no other instances of morbidity were noted . closing dead space by suturing skin flaps to underlying muscle combined with early removal of closed suction drains is associated with a low incidence of seroma formation after mastectomy . use of this technique has important economic and clinical implications for patients who had mastectomy . 
natural history of progressive ischemic stroke in a population treated with heparin data on the acute natural history of progressive stroke with or without heparin treatment are limited . to define the acute course of patients treated with heparin for progressive stroke , we examined the charts of 69 such patients identified through the cornell neurology database from october 1979 to june 1985 . analysis included determining whether further clinical deterioration or hemorrhagic complications were associated with readily identifiable clinical or laboratory variables . twenty-five patients ( 36 % ) continued to deteriorate while receiving heparin , another two ( 3 % ) worsened due to intracerebral hemorrhage , and a total of 10 patients ( 14 % ) had bleeding complications . no clinical features or heparin dosing regimens distinguished the patients likely to benefit from heparin . clinical progression or hemorrhage did not correlate with the level of anticoagulation as measured by the average heparin dose per day or the mean partial thromboplastin time . without unequivocal evidence demonstrating heparin 's ineffectiveness for progressive stroke , many clinicians managing such patients will continue to use heparin . our results suggest that this decision should not be governed by such clinical features as a patient 's age or sex or by the vascular distribution of the stroke . furthermore , frequent measurement of and overzealous efforts to adjust the partial thromboplastin time may be unnecessary since it does not correlate with outcome . 
coagulation-fibrinolysis abnormalities in acute and chronic phases of cerebral thrombosis and embolism . we assayed plasma concentrations of fibrinogen , fibrinopeptide a , plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex , d dimer , and antithrombin iii activity in 40 patients with cerebral thrombosis and nine patients with cerebral embolism during the acute ( less than 7 days ) , subacute ( 7-27 days ) , and chronic ( greater than or equal to 28 days ) periods and compared these with 69 controls . in cerebral thrombosis , fibrinogen and fibrinopeptide a levels were elevated significantly in all stages ( p less than 0.001 ) , whereas plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex and d dimer levels were elevated significantly in the subacute and chronic periods . the antithrombin iii activity was significantly decreased in the acute stage . the elevation of fibrinogen and plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex levels in the acute stage was significantly greater in patients with an infarct size greater than 10 mm2 compared to patients with an infarct size less than 10 mm2 . we observed similar changes in patients with cerebral embolism . these results suggest that enhanced coagulation exists at all stages and endogenous fibrinolysis is activated in the subacute and chronic periods in a large proportion of patients with cerebral thrombosis and embolism . 
diagnostic significance of flow separation within the carotid bifurcation demonstrated by digital subtraction angiography . the presence of an area of reversed blood flow due to flow separation in the interval carotid artery is a normal finding in doppler ultrasound studies in vivo as well as in model carotid bifurcations . this flow separation phenomenon is caused by the geometry of the carotid bifurcation and the fluid dynamics of blood . we demonstrated the flow separation phenomenon on lateral-projection intra-arterial digital subtraction angiograms in 99 of 100 carotid bifurcations . the mean duration of flow separation was 5.8 seconds , with values up to 14 seconds in normal carotid bifurcations . the presence of this flow separation phenomenon is almost independent of atherosclerotic lesions and is not correlated with cerebral ischemia . therefore , the angiographic finding of a flow separation has no diagnostic value . however , our results refer to a factor that may be important in the genesis of atherosclerosis at the carotid bifurcation , namely the duration of the stay of blood and its components within the area of flow separation . 
denervation in hemiplegic muscles . this study examined the frequency of denervation activity in hemiplegic muscles in relation to the size and location of the central lesion . we studied 20 patients , 14 with major unilateral cerebral infarctions in the middle cerebral or internal carotid territories ; four with a single lacune in the pons , internal capsule , or thalamus ; and two with precentral infarcts . using somatosensory evoked potentials , motor conduction studies , and assessments of conduction across the plexus and roots , we detected no conduction abnormalities on the affected side . fibrillation was common in both groups , especially in distal and intermediate muscles . the distribution of the fibrillation and the normal conduction studies suggested that trauma of peripheral nerves was not a factor . although the normal conduction studies and pattern of fibrillation activity do not exclude peripheral nerve trauma as the cause of the fibrillation , we suggest that transsynaptic degeneration is a reasonable alternative explanation . 
rupture of atheromatous plaque as a cause of thrombotic occlusion of stenotic internal carotid artery . we analyzed the clinical profiles and autopsy findings of five patients who died shortly after developing cerebral infarction following thrombotic occlusion of the internal carotid artery . in all five cases , thrombotic occlusion was caused by rupture of the fibrous lining over the gruel of atheroma at the origin of the internal carotid artery showing tight stenosis of the lumen . the mean + / - sd shorter diameter of the lumen at the site of occlusion was 1.5 + / - 0.4 mm . our results show that an internal carotid artery with tight stenosis of the lumen by atheroma containing gruel harbors a risk of thrombotic occlusion , which may give rise to cerebral infarction by artery-to-artery embolism or by reduced cerebral perfusion . 
sensory ataxic hemiparesis in thalamic hemorrhage . ataxic hemiparesis with cerebellar-like features has been reported following infarction or hemorrhage of the thalamus . we describe five patients with incoordination and corticospinal tract signs in the limbs opposite a dorsolateral thalamic hemorrhage . in four patients the hemorrhage extended superiorly into the lateral ventricle , the adjacent paraventricular region , and the upper and medial parts of the posterior limb of the internal capsule . instead of cerebellar dysfunction , these patients exhibited directional errors of movement that improved distinctly when performed under visual guidance . we explain the incoordination on the basis of conscious deep sensory loss in the involved limbs . perception of light touch , painful pinprick , and temperature were preserved in all patients . we use the term " sensory ataxic hemiparesis " to distinguish these patients from those with " classic " ataxic hemiparesis and cerebellar-like features , a distinction that may be important when planning functional rehabilitation . 
pontine supranuclear facial palsy . two patients presented with a unilateral supranuclear facial palsy . additional dysarthria was attributed to the pontine origin documented by magnetic resonance imaging on the contralateral side . the pontine disorder also was indicated by an isolated delay of the blink reflex r1 component or of the masseter reflex . we attribute the facial palsy to a lesion of a supranuclear fiber bundle supplying the facial nucleus . the location of the lesions favors these fibers taking a separate course from the main pyramidal tract at the mid - to upper pontine level . 
perinatal grief and mourning . the grief and mourning that parents experience following a perinatal loss is as devastating as the loss of an older loved one . the pattern of mourning can be anticipated and interventions can be implemented . with proper help , the parents can pass through this catastrophic time in their lives with a minimum of scars . if the physician stops , reaches out , listens , and supports the parents , he or she can have a dramatic effect on the lives of these parents . in the same manner in which we started this paper , we close with a quotation from another parent who suffered a loss : daughters may die , but why ? for even daughters ca n't live with half a heart . three days is n't much a life . but long enough to remember thin blue lips , uneven gasps in incubators , racking breaths that cause a pain to those who watched . long enough to remember i never held her or felt her softness or counted her toes . i did n't even know the color of her eyes . dead paled hands not quite covered by the gown she was to go home in . moist earth smell . one small casket . and the tears . you see , i hold in my hand but souvenirs of an occasion . a sheet of paper filled with statistics , a certificate with smudged footprints , a tiny bracelet engraved " girl , smith . " you say that you are sorry that you know how i feel . but you ca n't know because i do n't feel . not yet . 
recurrent childhood myoglobinuria . recurrent heritable childhood myoglobinuria is a potentially fatal entity ( mortality up to 35 % ) in which prompt diagnosis and treatment are critical . sixty childhood cases have been reported between 1910 to 1988 , most with undiagnosed etiologies . we have studied an additional 40 cases referred to cpmc ( 1980-1988 ) , suggesting that this condition is largely underdiagnosed or unreported . we have found important differences between the childhood and adult-onset cases . of 77 cases of adult-onset recurrent myoglobinuria , 45 % have been diagnosed biochemically . in contrast , only 30 % of the 60 childhood cases from the literature have been diagnosed ; 11 with cpt deficiency and 7 with various glycolytic defects , and only 5 of our 40 childhood cases have been diagnosed , all with cpt deficiency . the 100 combined childhood cases can be divided into an exertional group ( type i ) with exertion as the leading precipitating factor ( 46 literature and 10 cpmc cases ) , a toxic group ( type ii ) with infection and/or fever as the primary precipitant ( 14 literature and 23 cpmc cases ) , and 7 undefined cases . the type i group resembles the adult-onset group in which exercise is also the leading precipitating factor . there is a slight female predominance ( male/female = 1:1.3 ) in the toxic group vs. a marked male predominance in the exertional and adult groups ( 4:1 ) . only 4 of 37 cases ( 11 % ) of the toxic group are diagnosed ( all with cpt deficiency ) vs. 19 of 56 cases ( 34 % ) of the exertional group ( 12 cpt , 7 glycolytic ) and 45 % of the adult group . the toxic group is also differentiated by a higher mortality rate and by the presence of additional clinical features , including ictal bulbar signs ( 8 of 18 ) , encephalopathy ( 4 of 19 ) , and seizures ( 2 of 7 ) , as well as persistent cardiac abnormalities , developmental delay ( 4 of 17 ) , and dysmorphic features ( 2 of 9 ) . these clinical characteristics clearly differentiate the childhood from the adult cases and suggest the presence of more generalized disease processes and different biochemical etiologies . a study of the heritable causes of myoglobinuria is important because identification of the biochemical defect may elucidate the pathogenetic mechanism of the myoglobinuria and facilitate the development of rational treatment strategies aimed at circumventing or correcting the metabolic block . 
coronary angioplasty of diffuse coronary artery disease . from january 1983 through december 1987 , 98 patients underwent angioplasty of at least one diffusely diseased coronary artery . diffuse coronary disease was described as : group i , narrowing greater than or equal to 50 % that involved the entire vessel ( 40 patients ) , group ii , long lesions greater than or equal to 2 cm in length ( 39 patients ) , group iii , three or more lesions in the same vessel ( 19 patients ) . there were 65 men and 33 women , with a mean age of 60 years ; 64 patients ( 65 % ) had unstable angina , 23 patients ( 23 % ) were diabetic , 31 ( 32 % ) had prior myocardial infarctions , and 12 had prior bypass surgery . multivessel disease was present in 89 % of patients . angioplasty of only the diffusely diseased vessel was performed in 41 patients , and additional vessels were dilated in 57 patients . overall , of 396 lesions ( four per patient ) and 197 vessels ( two per patient ) attempted , success was achieved in 382 lesions ( 96 % ) and 187 vessels ( 95 % ) ; angiographic success was achieved in 112 of 120 diffusely diseased vessels ( 93 % ) . clinical success was achieved in 91 patients ( 93 % ) . the overall complication rate ( death , myocardial infarction , urgent bypass surgery ) was 8 % ( 8 of 98 ) : six patients ( 6 % ) had myocardial infarction ( one q wave , five non-q wave ) , one patient ( 1 % ) had urgent bypass surgery , and two patients ( 2 % ) died ( one during bypass surgery ) . the majority of complications ( 7 of 8 or 87 % ) , including the two deaths , occurred in group i patients , with a 17.5 % rate , versus 2.5 % in group ii and 0 % in group iii , p less than 0.002 . 
a randomized controlled trial of allopurinol in coronary bypass surgery . a plethora of experimental evidence indicates that allopurinol reduces the formation of cytotoxic free radicals during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of allopurinol on cardiac performance and early mortality after coronary bypass surgery . allopurinol ( n = 89 ) or placebo ( n = 80 ) was administered to 169 patients before surgery . randomization produced groups evenly matched for surgical risk factors . hospital mortality rate in the placebo group was 14 of 80 ( 18 % ) in the allopurinol group 4 of 89 ( 4 % ) , p = 0.014 . cardiac performance , scored by cardiac index and the need for ionotropic or mechanical support , was significantly better in the allopurinol group . more nonfatal complications occurred in the allopurinol group . when either a complication or death is termed an event , the proportion of events was equal in the two groups . no side effects were identified . we now administer allopurinol to all patients who are undergoing bypass surgery unless specifically contraindicated . 
incidence and clinical significance of st segment elevation after electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter . to study the incidence and clinical significance of postshock st segment elevations , we recorded 12-lead ecgs immediately after transthoracic direct-current electrical cardioversion in 146 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter . among 23 patients ( 19 % ) , acute st segment elevations amounted to 1.4 + / - 0.8 mv ( mean + / - sd ) and occurred after 243 + / - 114 joules ( cumulative dose ) in the precordial leads only in 14 , concomitantly in precordial and inferior leads in two , and in the precordial and anterolateral leads in seven . they normalized within 1.5 + / - 0.8 minutes . occurrence of st segment elevation was related to previous pericardiotomy ( p less than 0.00001 ) and age ( p = 0.01 ) . estimation of myocardial enzyme release did not show evidence of myocardial damage . patients with st segment elevations had a lower conversion rate ( 48 % versus 76 % , p = 0.005 ) . long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm was also diminished ( 35 % versus 59 % , p = 0.03 ) . results of this study show that postcardioversion st segment elevation occurs predominantly in postpericardiotomy patients and may be associated with an unfavorable arrhythmia prognosis . 
study on the genesis of the double potential recorded in the high right atrium in atrial flutter and its role in the reentry circuit of atrial flutter . to investigate the genesis of the double potential ( dp ) , which is two separate waves , and its role in the reentry circuit of atrial flutter ( af ) , we performed overdrive pacing ( odp ) from the high right atrium ( hra ) in six cases of spontaneous af in which the dp was recorded in the hra . in four of the six cases , when the dp was arbitrarily designated d1 and d2 , d1 and d2 showed progressive fusion during odp . in addition , the d1 return cycle , immediately after the termination of odp , corresponded to the af cycle , and the d2 return cycle corresponded to the pacing cycle . this may indicate that the dp is caused by the collision of two directional waves . furthermore , it is suggested that the hra plays an important role in preventing a possible shortcutting of reentry waves and in stabilizing the reentry circuit of af . 
increasing the yield of ventricular tachycardia induction : a prospective , randomized comparative study of the standard ventricular stimulation protocol to a short-to-long protocol and a new two-site protocol . programmed ventricular stimulation with a standard protocol that used up to three extrastimuli was compared prospectively with a short-to-long protocol and a two-site protocol in 77 consecutive patients undergoing electrophysiologic study in an attempt to increase the yield of ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) induction . the short-to-long protocol uses a train of eight stimuli at a short cycle length and up to two extrastimuli . the two-site protocol is similar to the standard protocol but delivers the last extrastimulus via a second spatially separated right ventricular catheter . patients were divided into two groups based on indications for study : group 1 included 45 patients with syncope , nonsustained vt , or both , and group 2 included 32 patients with a history of sustained vt , sudden cardiac death , or both . the yield of vt induction with the short-to-long protocol was less than that with the standard protocol . in none of the patients in group 1 in whom the standard protocol results were negative did the short-to-long protocol produce sustained vt . only two patients , both in group 2 , had sustained arrhythmias induced by the short-to-long protocol when the standard protocol results were negative : one had sustained vt induced and one with long qt syndrome had ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) induced with the short-to-long protocol . however , the short-to-long protocol failed to induce sustained vt in seven patients in whom the standard protocol produced sustained vt . all seven of these patients required three extrastimuli with the standard protocol for induction of vt . 
prognosis of patients with ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation and a normal electrophysiologic study . the outcome of 26 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia ( n = 16 ) or ventricular fibrillation ( n = 10 ) and no inducible ventricular tachycardia ( less than or equal to 10 beats ) by baseline programmed stimulation was studied . coronary artery disease was present in 14 patients , dilated cardiomyopathy was seen in seven , valvular heart disease was present in two , and no apparent cardiac abnormalities were found in three . the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 53 + / - 14 % . during the follow-up period of 24 + / - 16 months , actuarial survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 95 % and 89 % for sudden death and 95 % and 83 % for total cardiac death , respectively . no patients with a known ejection fraction greater than 30 % died suddenly during the follow-up . noninducibility by programmed stimulation in patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation is associated with a relatively preserved ventricular function . it may predict a low risk of sudden death in patients with preserved ventricular function . 
syncope of unknown origin : clinical , noninvasive , and electrophysiologic determinants of arrhythmia induction and symptom recurrence during long-term follow-up . ninety-one consecutive patients with syncope of unknown origin underwent electrophysiologic studies ( eps ) . univariate analysis identified the following variables : age , + signal-averaged ecg ( saecg ) , left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) , history of myocardial infarction , coronary artery disease , left ventricular aneurysm , and history of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( smvt ) on holter ; multivariate analysis identified + saecg , lvef , and history of smvt as risk factors for induction of smvt at eps . all patients were followed up for 19.0 + / - 8.3 months and 17 had recurrence of syncope . patients were divided into empiric , ep-guided , and no therapy groups . the ep-guided therapy group included all patients with smvt at eps . recurrence rates among all three groups were similar . we conclude that : ( 1 ) patients who have inducible smvt at eps can be identified using certain clinical and noninvasive variables . when these patients undergo ep-guided therapy , their rate of recurrence of syncope becomes compatible with that of patients who had no arrhythmia induced at eps . ( 2 ) empiric therapy does not offer any benefit over no therapy in reducing the rate of recurrent of scope . 
electrocardiographic and antiarrhythmic effects of intravenous amiodarone : results of a prospective , placebo-controlled study . the antiarrhythmic efficacy of intravenously administered amiodarone was examined in a prospective , randomized , placebo-controlled study that involved 77 patients after coronary artery bypass surgery . amiodarone was given after surgery in a loading bolus of 300 mg for 2 hours followed by 1200 mg every 24 hours for 2 days and 900 mg every 24 hours for the next 2 days . amiodarone suppressed both supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias within 12 hours after the start of therapy . particularly , the incidence of atrial fibrillation ( 5 % vs 21 % in the control group ; p less than 0.05 ) and of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia ( 3 % vs 16 % ; p less than 0.05 ) was reduced by amiodarone . heart rate was slowed ( p less than 0.001 ) and repolarization -- as judged by jtc interval -- was prolonged compared with the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) . in two patients , amiodarone infusion was stopped because of excessive qtc prolongation . no detrimental hemodynamic effects of the drug were observed . thus the intravenous administration of amiodarone appears to be suitable for patients in whom rapid suppression of symptomatic supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias is warranted in the presence of left ventricular dysfunction . 
electrophysiologic characteristics of manifest and latent retrograde conduction in dogs . atrioventricular ( av ) nodal reentry requires intact retrograde ventriculoatrial ( va ) conduction . the purpose of this study was to assess the contribution of various pacing and pharmacologic techniques to uncover va conduction during apparent unidirectional va block , and to evaluate the role of several biologic and electrophysiologic factors in concealment of retrograde conduction . forty healthy dogs underwent catheter-electrophysiologic studies of av and va conduction . group i ( 20 animals ) had intact va conduction . group ii ( six animals ) had va dissociation with ventricular pacing initiated during sinus rhythm , but the presence of va conduction was confirmed by isoproterenol infusion or by premature ventricular stimulation . in group iii ( 14 animals ) , the above techniques failed to uncover va conduction . eight of 14 group iii animals underwent thoracotomy and crushing or freezing of the sinoatrial ( sa ) node . ventricular pacing initiated during sinus standstill was associated with 1:1 va conduction in each experiment . va conduction time and retrograde wenckebach cycle length , both in the baseline state and during isoproterenol infusion , were significantly longer in the eight animals in group iii than in those in group i. age , gender , weight , breed , sinus cycle length , and anterograde av conduction properties were not significantly different between groups i , ii , and iii . the data suggest that ( 1 ) in normal dogs , complete unidirectional va block probably does not exist ; ( 2 ) in the presence of anterograde input to the av node , even sophisticated pacing and pharmacologic maneuvers may fail to uncover the presence of va conduction ; ( 3 ) although anterograde input is essential for concealment of va conduction , the phenomenon is more closely associated with depressed retrograde than with anterograde av nodal characteristics . 
vitamin e in gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion . to clarify the relationship among vitamin e , oxygen radicals , and lipid peroxidation in ischemia-reperfusion , we produced an experimental model of gastric mucosal injury in rats by ischemia-reperfusion with clamping of the celiac artery and measurements of the area of gastric erosion , thiobarbituric acid ( tba ) - reactive substances , and alpha-tocopherol in serum and gastric mucosa during ischemia-reperfusion . the area of gastric erosions and tba-reactive substances in gastric mucosa were significantly increased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion . the serum alpha-tocopherol-cholesterol ratio and gastric mucosal alpha-tocopherol were significantly decreased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion . on the other hand , in vitamin e-deficient rats , gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion was more severe than that in vitamin e-nondeficient rats . these results indicate that vitamin e is consumed in the process of lipid peroxidation induced by oxygen radicals in ischemia-reperfusion to prevent the development of tissue damage . 
effects of carotenoids in cellular and animal systems . it has been suggested that carotenoid pigments may function as chemopreventive agents for reducing the risk of cancer in humans . part of this suggestion rests on epidemiological evidence , and part rests on work done in cellular and animal systems . in this article , the experimental evidence for carotenoid inhibition of mutagenicity , malignant transformation , tumor formation , and immunoenhancement is reviewed . although a mechanism for these effects can not yet be identified , it is clear that the overwhelming evidence in these systems would indicate that carotenoids exert an important influence in modulating the actions of carcinogens . 
oxidative damage to lipids within the inflamed human joint provides evidence of radical-mediated hypoxic-reperfusion injury . previous work has established the existence of a pathophysiological environment within the inflamed human joint , capable of sustaining a hypoxic-reperfusion event . using four different assay systems ( two standard and two novel ) applied to synovial fluid for the assessment of lipid peroxidation , a series of studies demonstrate that exercise of the inflamed human knee promotes radical-mediated lipid peroxidation within the joint . the implication for novel antioxidant therapeutic approaches to inflammatory joint disease is discussed . 
vitamin e supplementation and periventricular hemorrhage in the newborn . in a randomized controlled trial preterm babies received 20 mg vitamin e/kg im soon after birth ( day 0 ) and at 24 and 48 h. the mean + / - sd plasma vitamin e level on day 0 was identical in supplemented and control groups ( 9.98 + / - 4.88 mumol/l ) and rose progressively only in supplemented babies reaching a peak of 69.2 + / - 21.36 mumol/l at 72 h. supplemented babies had a lower incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage ( ivh ) diagnosed by ultrasound ( 9/102 , 8.8 % ) than the control group ( 37/108 , 34.3 % ; 95 % ci for difference in incidence , 15-36 % ) . in a subsequent uncontrolled study using the same vitamin e preparation , a single dose of 20 mg/kg was given soon after birth to preterm babies . the peak mean + / - sd plasma level was 32.97 + / - 13.47 mumol/l at 48 h. the incidence of ivh ( 16/121 , 13.2 % ) was lower than in historical control from the randomized trial ( 95 % ci for difference ; 10.2-31 .8 % ) in spite of the single-dose group having more clinical risk factors for ivh . we conclude that vitamin e protects against ivh in preterm babies . 
premalignant lesions : role of antioxidant vitamins and beta-carotene in risk reduction and prevention of malignant transformation . epidemiological studies have shown that diets rich in one or more antioxidant nutrients may reduce the risk of cancers of the lung , uterine cervix , mouth , and gastrointestinal tract . study of premalignant lesions offers a comparatively expedient approach to identifying and evaluating the efficacy of the cancer chemopreventive components of foods . some recent findings suggest roles for beta-carotene and/or vitamin c in reversing or reducing the risk of cervical dysplasia and oral leukoplakia . there are some indications that vitamin c and beta-carotene may reduce the risk of atrophic gastritis and gastric cancer . additional epidemiological and molecular biology studies and clinical intervention trials using premalignant lesions as the marker of specific cancer risks should become an important component of future research in the area of cancer chemoprevention . 
follow-up of patients who underwent arterial switch repair for transposition of the great arteries thirty infants underwent arterial switch for transposition of the great arteries within the first week of life ( mean age , 2.8 days ) . an additional three patients underwent repair at 5 1/2 , 8 , and 9 1/2 months of age . six ( 18.2 % ) of 33 patients died . all the survivors were not receiving cardiac medications or diuretics at the time of the last follow-up visit . examination of 24 of 27 survivors at 1 to 5 years of age revealed normal growth in 75 % of the patients . two patients had height , weight , and head circumference below the fifth percentile for age . four patients had height and weight appropriate for age but head circumference below the fifth percentile . neurodevelopmental testing yielded normal findings in 18 patients . three patients were considered suspect and an additional three were abnormal neurodevelopmentally . head circumference less than the fifth percentile , abnormalities on computed tomographic scans of the brain , and emergency balloon atrial septostomy or emergency switch operation were more likely to occur in patients who had low neurodevelopmental scores . we conclude that the majority of patients who undergo arterial switch repair demonstrate normal growth and development and no impairment of cardiovascular function . however , significant morbidity in the form of neurodevelopmental problems may occur . 
acute osteomyelitis in children . reassessment of etiologic agents and their clinical characteristics . one hundred thirty-five children with acute osteomyelitis were identified by chart review during a 7-year period , january 1 , 1980 , through december 31 , 1986 . bacteriologic causes were detected in 75 ( 55 % ) of the patients . staphylococcus aureus , haemophilus influenzae type b , and pseudomonas aeruginosa were identified in 34 ( 25 % ) , 16 ( 12 % ) , and eight ( 6 % ) children , respectively . staphylococcus aureus occurred in all age groups , h influenzae type b occurred only in children younger than 3 years and was the number one cause of disease in this group . pseudomonas aeruginosa occurred exclusively in children older than 9 years . children with h influenzae type b had clinical and laboratory findings that were almost indistinguishable from a matched group of children with osteomyelitis due to other known bacteria , although children with h influenzae type b tended to have more joint effusions ( 63 % vs 27 % ) , less lower extremity disease ( 22 % vs 70 % ) , and fewer positive cultures from bone or joint aspirates ( 41 % vs 89 % ) . unlike most pediatric cases of osteomyelitis , the ones due to p aeruginosa did not represent the hematogenous route of infection ; penetrating injury to the foot was present in every case . children with p aeruginosa infections were older than 9 years ( 100 % ) , predominantly male ( 88 % ) , often afebrile ( 83 % ) , and never bacteremic . these data provide guidelines for the initial work-up and management of osteomyelitis in children . 
influence of otitis media on the correlation between rectal and auditory canal temperatures . in a noninterventional , controlled , single-blinded trial , 251 children were examined in a university hospital emergency department setting to study the influence of acute otitis media on the relationship between rectal and auditory canal temperatures . bilateral auditory canal temperatures were measured using an infrared detection probe and microprocessor by nursing staff blinded to the presence of acute otitis media . correlation between rectal and auditory canal temperatures in children with ( r = .81 ) and without ( r = .75 ) acute otitis media were not significantly different . there was no significant difference between infected ( 38.1 degrees c + / - 1.0 degree c ) and uninfected ears ( 38.0 degrees c + / - 1.0 degree c ) with unilateral otitis ( n = 75 ) . although significantly higher than in uninfected children , auditory canal temperatures of children with acute otitis media reflected elevated rectal temperatures and not differences in auditory canal temperatures between ears . 
nevus flammeus . discordance in monozygotic twins . nevus flammeus has been described as an inherited vascular anomaly . we report two cases of nevus flammeus , each appearing in one of two monozygotic twins . this finding supports the idea that nevus flammeus results from embryologic mishap rather than genetic transmission . 
marfanoid children . etiologic heterogeneity and cardiac findings . the clinical , cardiac , and echocardiographic test results of 20 children with marfanoid features are reviewed . fifteen were diagnosed as having marfan syndrome , two had " possible " marfan syndrome , and three had other diagnoses . on first evaluation , eight patients with marfan syndrome ( 53 % ) had mitral regurgitation and none had aortic regurgitation . echocardiography showed aortic root enlargement in 12 ( 80 % ) of 15 patients and mitral valve prolapse in 12 ( 80 % ) of 15 . none had a normal echocardiogram . at follow-up examination , one patient had developed aortic root enlargement , and one patient , mitral valve prolapse . thus , although aortic root enlargement is usually present in early childhood in patients with marfan syndrome , it is not considered specific because in this study it also occurred in one child with alport 's syndrome and in one with marfanoid features . four patients with aortic root enlargement were treated with propranolol and their echocardiograms showed no further increase in the aortic root diameter for several years . we recommend echocardiography in the diagnosis and routine management of children in whom marfan syndrome is suspected . 
cat-scratch disease . acute encephalopathy and other neurologic manifestations . seventy-six patients with neurologic complications of cat-scratch disease are discussed . encephalopathy occurred in 61 , while 15 had either cranial or peripheral nerve involvement . the average age of the patients with encephalopathy was 10.6 years ( range , 1 to 66 years ) , and almost twice as many males as females were affected in contrast to patients with uncomplicated cat-scratch disease , in which the ratio was almost equal . fever was not documented in 50 % of patients with encephalopathy and only 26 % had temperatures higher than 39 degrees c. convulsions occurred in 46 % and combative behavior in 40 % . lethargy with or without coma was accompanied by variable neurologic signs . results of laboratory studies , including imaging of the central nervous system , were inconsistent and nondiagnostic . biopsy tissue from 14 patients showed histopathologic findings compatible with cat-scratch disease . the " english-wear bacillus " was demonstrated by the warthin-starry stain in 10 of 14 skin or lymph node specimens . of the 15 patients without encephalopathy , two children with facial nerve paresis displayed cranial nerve symptoms and/or signs , 10 patients had cat-scratch disease neuroretinitis , and three women had peripheral neuritis . all 76 patients recovered within 12 months ; 78 % recovered within 1 to 12 weeks . there were no neurologic sequelae . treatment consisted of control of convulsions and supportive measures . commonly used antibiotics administered to more than half of the patients were apparently ineffective . 
a family study of gilles de la tourette syndrome . previous studies have demonstrated that gilles de la tourette syndrome ( ts ) is a familial disorder and that chronic tics ( ct ) and obsessive compulsive disorder ( ocd ) appear to be etiologically related to the syndrome . in the present study we report the results from a study of 338 biological relatives of 86 ts probands , 21 biologically unrelated relatives of adopted ts probands , and 22 relatives of normal subjects . the 43 first-degree relatives of the adopted ts and normal probands constituted a control sample . the rates of ts , ct , and ocd in the total sample of biological relatives of ts probands were significantly greater than in the relatives of controls . in addition , the morbid risks of ts , ocd , and ct were not significantly different in families of probands with ocd when compared to relatives of probands without ocd . these findings provide further evidence that ocd is etiologically related to ts . 
chromosome 15 uniparental disomy is not frequent in angelman syndrome . genetic imprinting has been implicated in the etiology of two clinically distinct but cytogenetically indistinguishable disorders -- angelman syndrome ( as ) and prader-willi syndrome ( pws ) . this hypothesis is derived from two lines of evidence . first , while the molecular extents of de novo cytogenetic deletions of chromosome 15q11q13 in as and pws patients are the same , the deletions originate from different parental chromosomes . in as , the deletion occurs in the maternally inherited chromosome 15 , while in pws the deletion is found in the paternally inherited chromosome 15 . the second line of evidence comes from the deletion of an abnormal parental contribution of 15q11q13 in pws patients without a cytogenetic and molecular deletion . these patients have two maternal copies and no paternal copy of 15q11q13 ( maternal uniparental disomy ) instead of one copy from each parent . by qualitative hybridization with chromosome 15q11q13 specific dna markers , we have now examined dna samples from 10 as patients ( at least seven of which are familial cases ) with no cytogenetic or molecular deletion of chromosome 15q11q13 . inheritance of one maternal copy and one paternal copy of 15q11q13 was observed in each family , suggesting that paternal uniparental disomy of 15q11q13 is not responsible for expression of the as phenotype in these patients . 
a 3-bp deletion in the rhodopsin gene in a family with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa . autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa ( adrp ) has recently been linked to locus d3s47 ( probe c17 ) , with no recombination , in a single large irish family . other adrp pedigrees have shown linkage at zero recombination , linkage with recombination , and no linkage , demonstrating genetic heterogeneity . the gene encoding rhodopsin , the rod photoreceptor pigment , is closely linked to locus d3s47 on chromosome 3q . a point mutation changing a conserved proline to histidine in the 23d codon of the gene has been demonstrated in affected members of one adrp family and in 17 of 148 unrelated adrp patients . we have sequenced the rhodopsin gene in a c17-linked adrp family and have identified in the 4th exon and in-frame 3-bp deletion which deletes one of the two isoleucine monomers at codons 255 and 256 . this mutation was not found in 30 other unrelated adrp families . the deletion has arisen in the sequence tcatcatcat , deleting one of a run of three x 3-bp repeats . the mechanism by which this occurred may be similar to that which creates length variation in so-called mini - and microsatellites . thus adrp is an extremely heterogeneous disorder which can result from a range of defects in rhodopsin and which can have a locus or loci elsewhere in the genome . 
pearson syndrome and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy in a patient with a deletion of mtdna . a patient is described who has features of pearson syndrome and who presented in the neonatal period with a hypoplastic anemia . he later developed hepatic , renal , and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction . at the age of 5 years he developed visual impairment , tremor , ataxia , proximal muscle weakness , external ophthalmoplegia , and a pigmentary retinopathy ( kearns-sayre syndrome ) . muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of mitochondrial myopathy . analysis of mtdna from leukocytes and muscle showed mtdna heteroplasmy in both tissues , with one population of mtdna deleted by 4.9 kb . the deleted region was bridged by a 13-nucleotide sequence occurring as a direct repeat in normal mtdna . both pearson syndrome and kearns-sayre syndrome have been noted to be associated with deletions of mtdna ; they have not previously been described in the same patient . these observations indicate that the two disorders have the same molecular basis ; the different phenotypes are probably determined by the initial proportion of deleted mtdnas and modified by selection against them in different tissues . 
localization of dna sequences to a region within xp11 .21 between incontinentia pigmenti ( ip1 ) x-chromosomal translocation breakpoints . incontinentia pigmenti ( ip ) is an x-linked dominant disorder characterized by developmental anomalies of the tissues and organs derived from embryonic ectoderm and neuroectoderm . an ip locus , designated ip1 , probably resides in xp11 .21 , since five unrelated patients with nonfamilial ip have been identified who possess constitutional de novo reciprocal x ; autosome translocations involving xp11 .21 . we have used a series of somatic cell hybrids containing the rearranged chromosomes derived from three of the five ip1 patients , along with other hybrid cell lines , to map probes in the vicinity of the ip1 locus . five anonymous dna loci -- dxs422 , dxs14 , dxs343 , dxs429 , and dxs370 -- have been mapped to a region within xp11 .21 , between two ip1 x-chromosomal translocation breakpoints ; the ip1 t ( x ; 17 ) breakpoint is proximal ( centromeric ) to this region , and the ip1 t ( x ; 13 ) and t ( x ; 9 ) x-chromosomal breakpoints lie distal to it . while no ip1 translocation breakpoint has yet been identified by pulsed-field gel electrophoretic ( pfge ) analysis , an overlap between three probes -- p58-1 , 7psh3 .5 , and cpx210 -- has been detected , placing these probes within 125 kb . four probes -- p58-1 , 7psh3 .5 , cpx210 , and 30ce2 .8 -- have been helpful in constructing a 1,250-kb pfge map of the region between the breakpoints ; these results suggest that the ip1 x-chromosomal translocation breakpoints are separated by at least this distance . the combined somatic cell hybrid and pfge analyses we report here favor the probe order dxs323 - ( ip1 t ( x ; 13 ) , ip1 , t ( x ; 9 ] - ( dxs422 , dxs14 , dxs343 , dxs429 , dxs370 ) - ( ip1 t ( x ; 17 ) , dxz1 ) . these sequences provide a starting point for identifying overlapping genomic sequences that span the ip1 translocation breakpoints ; the availability of ip1 translocation breakpoints should now assist the cloning of this locus . 
distribution of deletions and seven point mutations on cyp21b genes in three clinical forms of steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency . to characterize mutations in the cyp21b gene that are responsible for congenital adrenal hyperplasia ( cah ) , dna samples from 91 french patients have been studied by allelic-specific oligonucleotide hybridization and southern blot analysis . seven sites mostly found in the cyp21a pseudogene and deletions of the functional cyp21b gene have been screened . gene conversions involving small dna segments accounted for 57 % of the tested mutations and probably cause 74 % of the mutations responsible for the disease . complete deletion of the cyp21b gene accounted for 18 % of the cah mutations in the whole sample and for 21 % in the classical form of the disease . three mutations were found associated with specific clinical forms of the disease : a g-c substitution in the seventh exon was associated with the late-onset form of the disease , and both an 8-bp depletion in the third exon and complete deletion of cyp21b were associated with the salt-wasting form . 
psychogenic purpura ( autoerythrocyte sensitization ) : an unsolved dilemma . experience at university hospitals of cleveland with 71 cases of gardner and diamond 's syndrome of autoerythrocyte sensitization is reviewed . gardner and diamond attributed the pathogenesis of the inflammatory bruises typical of this syndrome to sensitization to the stroma of the patients ' own erythrocytes , as demonstrated by reproduction of the lesion on intracutaneous injection of erythrocytic stroma . nearly all the cases my colleagues and i have seen were in adult women , in whom the onset of inflammatory bruising could often be precisely dated , frequently some weeks after an injury or surgical procedure or , more often , severe emotional stress . bouts of bruising were often preceded by sensations localized to the affected site . cutaneous responses to the injection of erythrocytes were erratic . the patients described a wide range of both hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic complaints , including , among others , severe headaches , paresthesias , repeated syncope , diplopia ( sometimes monocular ) , and " nervousness . " psychiatric studies indicated that patients had overt depression , sexual problems , feelings of hostility , and obsessive-compulsive behavior . the patients had traits that can be described as typical of a hysterical character disorder . therapy of autoerythrocyte sensitization -- that is , psychogenic purpura -- has been difficult ; in younger individuals , psychiatric therapy has appeared to be beneficial . 
sickle cell trait revisited . variability in the clinical severity of sickle cell diseases is often genetically determined . coexistent alpha-thalassemia decreases some , but not all , associated morbid complications . polymorphisms within the beta-globin-like gene cluster influence disease severity by varying gamma-gene expression and the amount of hb f within the cells . few persons with the sickle cell trait experience adverse consequences attributable to the beta s gene . is this also due to genetic factors ? a literature search failed to answer this question . it is intriguing , however , that reported associations of sickle cell trait and splenic infarction have occurred exclusively in males and mostly in whites . plausible but scanty data suggest that splenic infarction , hematuria , and reduced renal concentrating ability may be associated with higher amounts of hb s. therefore , alpha-thalassemia may be protective . no evidence was found that the amount of hb s influenced the incidence of sudden death after exertion or that increased amounts of hb f accounted for protection against any complications . more detailed reporting of biochemical and genetic evaluations of persons with sickle cell trait who experience related clinical events may lead to a better understanding of risks in subpopulations of persons carrying a single beta s gene . 
abnormalities of von willebrand factor multimers in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome . purpose : to analyze and review von willebrand factor ( vwf ) multimeric patterns in patients with single-episode thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) , intermittent ttp ( episodes at infrequent , irregular intervals ) , chronic relapsing ttp ( episodes at frequent , regular intervals ) , and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome ( hus ) . patients and methods : platelet-poor plasma samples were obtained in edta , citrate , or citrate-hirudin-aprotinin-leupeptin from 36 patients with single-episode ttp , eight patients with intermittent ttp , four patients with chronic relapsing ttp , and 26 patients with hus . the samples were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-agarose gel electrophoresis , overlaid with rabbit 125i-anti-human vwf igg , and analyzed by autoradiography . results : abnormalities of vwf multimers were found in platelet-poor plasma samples from 31 of 36 found in platelet-poor plasma samples from 31 of 36 patients ( 86 % ) at the onset of and during their single ttp episode . vwf multimers larger than those in normal plasma , and similar to vwf forms observed within normal human endothelial cells ( unusually large vwf multimers ) , were demonstrated in 31 % of the patients ; 19 % had either unusually large vwf multimers or a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf forms in different serial samples ; 36 % had a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf forms . these results imply that endothelial cell injury or intense stimulation , along with the attachment of unusually large vwf multimers and the largest plasma vwf forms to platelets , occurred during the single ttp episodes in most patients . patterns of vwf multimers were normal in 92 % of patients with single-episode ttp studied after recovery . all eight patients with intermittent ttp and the four patients with chronic relapsing ttp had unusually large vwf multimers in their plasma between episodes , and these multimers decreased or disappeared during relapses . of 26 children and adults with hus , 14 had a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf multimeric forms and one had unusually large vwf multimers during the episode ( vwf multimeric abnormalities in 58 % of the patients ) . conclusion : it is probable that vwf was involved in the pathophysiology of ttp in most of these patients with the single-episode , intermittent , or chronic relapsing types of ttp , and in more than 50 % of the patients with hus . 
genetic differences in susceptibility to glomerular sclerosis : a role for lipids ? to better understand the pathogenesis of focal and segmental glomerular hyalinosis and sclerosis ( fsghs ) , a variety of animal models have been developed -- mainly in rats -- that allow a comprehensive study of all variables involved , such as hemodynamic , genetic , and metabolic factors . in this article , we briefly review the role of lipids in the pathogenesis of fsghs and provide evidence that " atherosclerosis of the glomerular mesangium " contributes to the ultimate histopathologic lesion of fsghs in susceptible rat strains . observations in a fsghs-resistant strain revealed several characteristic features that may protect these rats against chronic renal disease such as high nephron numbers , glomerular visceral epithelial cells with a remarkable resistance to toxic injury , minimal sequestration of serum proteins and cholesterol from the circulation into the mesangium , and a remarkable lipoprotein profile in normal as well as nephrotic states with a very low cholesterol content of the very-low-density and low-density lipoprotein fractions . recent clinicopathologic studies also indicate a correlation between hyperlipidemia and the progression of renal disease . the concept of lipid-mediated glomerular injury warrants further study . 
surgical removal of subfoveal neovascularization in the presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome . we treated two patients with presumed ocular histoplasmosis , subfoveal neovascular membranes , and progressive visual acuity loss to 20/400 . vitreoretinal surgical techniques were used to remove the subfoveal membranes . visual acuity returned to 20/20 with seven months of follow-up in one patient ( case 1 ) and to 20/40 with three months of follow-up in the other patient ( case 2 ) . no evidence of persistent or current subretinal neovascular membranes in either patient have been noted . these preliminary results suggest that vitreoretinal surgical techniques may be successful in mechanically removing subfoveal neovascular membranes with preservation of overlying neurosensory retina and thus preservation of central visual acuity . 
causes of failure after repeat vitreoretinal surgery for recurrent proliferative vitreoretinopathy . during the last two years , we performed vitreoretinal surgery on 37 eyes with retinal detachments and recurrent severe proliferative vitreoretinopathy in 37 patients who had had previous failed scleral buckling and vitreous surgery for proliferative vitreoretinopathy . anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy was present in 32 of 37 eyes ( 86 % ) ; posterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy of fixed retinal folds in four quadrants of narrow or closed funnel shape occurred in 23 of 37 eyes ( 62 % ) ; and subretinal proliferation was noted in 16 of 37 eyes ( 43 % ) . the retinas in 12 eyes ( 32 % ) redetached from new or recurrent anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy in nine eyes , reopening of pre-existing retinal breaks in two eyes , or recurrent posterior periretinal proliferation in one eye . with additional vitreoretinal procedures in six eyes and after a mean follow-up period of 11 months , 27 of 37 retinas ( 73 % ) were totally reattached , and an additional five eyes ( 13 % ) had retinal reattachment posterior to the scleral buckle . of the 32 patients with posterior retinal reattachment , final visual acuity of 5/200 or better was attained in 19 eyes ( 59 % ) . 
signs , complications , and platelet aggregation in familial exudative vitreoretinopathy . between 1979 and 1989 , i examined 106 patients ( 16 pedigrees ) with signs of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy . of these patients , 101 had familial exudative vitreoretinopathy , and five had a sporadic manifestation . the complications of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy , deformation of the posterior retina , vitreous hemorrhage , amblyopia , and retinal detachment , caused diminished visual acuity . of 170 eyes , retinal neovascularization was observed in 18 eyes ( 11 % ) , and retinal exudates were observed in 16 eyes ( 9 % ) . several forms of retinal detachment occurred in 37 of 180 eyes ( 21 % ) , which often took an unfavorable course . a falciform retinal fold was observed in 14 eyes ( 8 % ) . retinal surgery was performed in 14 eyes ; reattachment of the retina was successful in only seven eyes . platelet aggregation studies disclosed no significant differences between seven patients with familial exudative vitreoretinopathy and ten control subjects . the pathogenesis of the disease is based on a premature arrest of the vascular development of the retina . 
echographic diagnosis of dural carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas . i used standardized ophthalmic echography to identify specific abnormalities in four patients with low-pressure , low-flow dural arteriovenous malformations . in all of the patients , b-scan ultrasonography showed engorgement of the ipsilateral vertical vein . a-scan ultrasonography dynamically imaged rapid blood flow through the superior ophthalmic vein and enlargement of the culpable ocular muscles in patients with restrictive ophthalmopathy . the 30-degree test distinguished between venous engorgement of the optic nerve sheath and apical compression of the optic nerve by enlarged ocular muscles . 
moderate prenatal alcohol exposure : effects on child iq and learning problems at age 7 1/2 years . this longitudinal , prospective , population-based study examined the long-term effects of moderate prenatal alcohol exposure on 482 school aged children . maternal reports of alcohol use obtained during pregnancy were significantly related to child iq , achievement test scores , and classroom behaviors in second grade children , even after statistical adjustment for appropriate covariates . consumption of two drinks per day or more on the average was related to a 7-point decrement in iq in 7-year-old children even after statistically adjusting for appropriate covariates . low paternal education and more children in the household were identified as environmental factors exacerbating the effect of prenatal alcohol exposure on child iq . learning problems were associated with the alcohol " binge " pattern of five or more drinks on at least one occasion . this study shows that alcohol use patterns within the social drinking range can have long lasting effects on iq and learning problems in young school aged children . these patterns should not be interpreted as biologic thresholds . it should also be noted that these are group effects of prenatal alcohol exposure , not necessarily predictable in the individual child , and that for the most part these children were functioning within the normal range of intelligence . 
effects of acute alcohol intake on tolerance to hypotension . the specific aim of this research was to test the hypothesis that intoxication with alcohol results in poor tolerance to hemorrhage . this was evaluated on the basis of blood pressure , cardiac output respiratory rate , blood flow to organs , and survival for 4 hr after hemorrhage . four groups of six swine per group were used ( control , intoxicated , hemorrhage , and intoxicated-hemorrhage ) . the results revealed that blood alcohol concentrations near 0.1 % greatly reduced tolerance to hemorrhage . intoxicated animals subjected to hemorrhage were unable to maintain an adequate cardiac output , blood pressure , or respiratory rate to sustain life . pigs tolerated higher blood alcohol concentrations , up to 0.35 % , when not exposed to hemorrhage . also , unintoxicated pigs were able to compensate for severe hemorrhage . only one of the six pigs in the intoxicated-hemorrhage group survived for 4 hr after hemorrhage . in conclusion the body 's ability to compensate and recover from hemorrhage was greatly reduced during intoxication . it is logical to assume that the ability to overcome numerous other stressors may also be reduced during intoxication . 
leukotriene synthesis inhibition and receptor blockade do not inhibit hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in sheep . several lines of evidence suggest that leukotrienes may be mediators of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction ( hpv ) . however , the effect of leukotriene inhibition on hpv remains controversial . the present study investigated the effect of leukotriene synthesis inhibition and receptor blockade on hpv in the halothane-anesthetized sheep . after initial baseline measurements , the pulmonary pressor response to 15 min of global hypoxia ( fio2 = 0.13 ) was measured . a second set of baseline measurements was obtained and the sheep then received the combined cyclooxygenase/lipoxygenase inhibitor bw755c , the selective lipoxygenase inhibitor u60257 , or the leukotriene receptor antagonist ly171883 . hemodynamic measurements were obtained after drug administration and during a subsequent hypoxic challenge ( fio2 = 0.13 ) . initial hypoxic challenge increased pulmonary artery pressure 68 % and increased pulmonary vascular resistance 104 % . pulmonary hemodynamics after recovery from hypoxia were similar to initial baseline values . drug administration had no significant hemodynamic effect . hypoxic challenge after drug administration resulted in a pulmonary pressor response identical to the initial hypoxic challenge . because leukotriene synthesis inhibition and receptor blockade did not alter the response to hypoxia , we conclude that leukotrienes are not obligatory mediators of hpv . a critical review of the literature supports a modulatory rather than an obligatory role for leukotrienes in hpv . 
effects of neuroleptic agents on rat skeletal muscle contracture in vitro . the purpose of this investigation was to examine and compare the effects of both in vivo pretreatment and in vitro treatment with the neuroleptic agents droperidol , haloperidol , and trifluoperazine on skeletal muscle contracture using an in vitro model . strips of normal rat diaphragm were challenged with succinylcholine and halothane ( halothane : 1 % and 3 % ) subsequent to either in vitro administration ( 10-100 microm ) or in vivo pretreatment ( 0.35-2 .80 mg/kg ) with droperidol , haloperidol , or trifluoperazine . after equilibration , maximum increases in tension were recorded and mean data analyzed by analysis of variance ( p less than 0.05 ) . when either droperidol or trifluoperazine was administered in vivo , contracture values after exposure to succinylcholine and halothane were significantly decreased . after in vivo pretreatment with haloperidol or in vitro administration of droperidol , succinylcholine-induced contractures were significantly reduced ; contractures subsequently induced by halothane did not significantly differ from that of controls . in vitro treatment with haloperidol and trifluoperazine , however , produced significant increases in tension in muscles exposed to succinylcholine and halothane . this study provides evidence that droperidol may be considered a safe anesthetic adjunct in malignant hyperthermia-susceptible patients , and , additionally , that caution should be exercised when interpreting results from studies in which contracture testing is performed on muscle from patients treated with neuroleptic agents . 
simultaneous superior oblique sheathectomy and inferior oblique tuck in congenital brown 's syndrome . since harold brown , in 1950 , described the superior oblique tendon sheath syndrome , numerous surgical techniques have been explored to treat this condition . tenectomy of the homolateral superior oblique , alone or in combination with a weakening procedure on the homolateral inferior oblique , has been the technique most advocated . however , good functional results are rarely achieved in a single procedure , and delayed complications are frequent . taking advantage of the improved dissection and reduced trauma afforded by the use of a surgical microscope , one of the techniques first recommended and later abandoned by brown was reappraised . the technique consists of dissection of the sheath and attachments of the superior oblique , while preserving its tendon , combined with a 10mm tuck of the homolateral inferior oblique . both a typical and a severe atypical congenital case , according to the classification of brown , were treated in this fashion . full correction was achieved in both . 
childhood blindness in peru . a survey of childhood blindness in peruvian children was done . although most causes of blindness were due to congenital and hereditary conditions , measles accounted for almost 10 % of blindness . with widespread measles immunization , this preventable cause of blindness in children can be eliminated or dramatically reduced . 
effects of hyaluronic acid fractions in the rabbit eye . two fractions of hyaluronic acid with different molecular weight ( ial , molecular weight 500,000-730 ,000 and healon , molecular weight 750,000 ) were injected intracamerally or intravitreously in the rabbit eye . although the fraction with higher molecular weight caused an increase in intraocular pressure , no change of this parameter was found after administration of the fraction with the lower molecular weight . furthermore , various inflammatory reactions in ocular tissues were observed during slit-lamp biomicroscopy after administration of healon but not of ial . no inflammatory reaction was found after subchronic instillation of the compounds . 
recurrent laryngeal nerve avulsion for treatment of spastic dysphonia . treatment of spastic dysphonia by recurrent laryngeal nerve section has resulted in reproducibly good results in the early postoperative period in most patients . however , critical long-term follow-up has shown a high recurrence rate of adductor spasms by the third year after initial nerve section . a patient who developed recurring adductor spasms 1 year after nerve section was reexplored , with identification of neural regrowth into the distal segment of the recurrent laryngeal nerve . the technique of neural avulsion removing the distal nerve up to its insertion into the laryngeal muscles is described . neural regrowth , which is just one of the possible mechanisms for recurrence of spastic dysphonia , should be prevented by this surgical modification . twelve patients who have undergone neural avulsion primarily for spastic dysphonia are being followed up without recurrence of symptoms thus far . although these results appear promising , this short follow-up that averages 1.5 years must be extended to firmly support these concepts . 
electrical pacing for dynamic treatment of unilateral vocal cord paralysis . experiment in long-denervated muscle . in order to explore the possibility of clinical application of laryngeal pacing as a treatment for unilateral vocal cord paralysis , we examined the reactivity of atrophic muscle to electrical stimulation in dogs whose recurrent laryngeal nerves were damaged by crushing , dissection followed by resuturing , or a 3-cm neurectomy . the threshold level to induce enough vocal cord adduction reached the maximum at 2 weeks after nerve injury , decreased with time , and never surpassed 7 v in each case . on the basis of results of these preliminary probings , laryngeal pacing was conducted on a dog 15 months after resection of the laryngeal nerve . adduction of the paralyzed vocal cord for synchrony with the intact cord was achieved by 7 v of electrical stimulation of the thyroarytenoid muscle that was triggered by signals from the cricothyroid muscle . 
safety and efficacy of laparoscopic cholecystectomy . a prospective analysis of 100 initial patients laparoscopic cholecystectomy quickly emerged as an alternative to open cholecystectomy . however its safety , efficacy , and morbidity have yet to be fully evaluated . during the first 6 months of 1990 , we performed 100 consecutive laparoscopic cholecystectomies with no deaths and a morbidity rate of 8 % ( 8 of 100 patients ; 4 major , 4 minor ) . there were 81 women and 19 men , with a mean age of 46.1 years ( range , 17 to 84 years ) . all patients had a preoperative history consistent with symptomatic biliary tract disease , and most had proved gallstones by sonography . this included four patients with acute cholecystitis . mean operating time improved significantly from month 1 to month 6 ( 122 + / - 45.4 minutes versus 78.5 + / - 30 minutes , respectively ) , indicating a rapid learning curve . mean hospital stay was 27.6 hours , reflecting a policy of overnight stay . postoperative narcotic requirements were limited to oral or no medications in more than 70 % of patients . a regular diet was tolerated by 83 % of the patients by the morning following the procedure . median time of return to full activity was 12.8 + / - 6.8 days after operation . in addition analysis of the hospital costs of these 100 cases demonstrates a modest cost advantage over standard open cholecystectomy ( n = 58 ) ( mean , $ 3620.25 + / - $ 1005.00 versus $ 4251.76 + / - $ 988.00 ) . there was one minor bile duct injury requiring laparotomy and t-tube insertion , two postoperative bile collections , and one clinical diagnosis of a retained stone that passed spontaneously . four patients required conversion to open cholecystectomy because of technical difficulties with the dissection . although there is a significant learning curve , laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a safe and effective procedure that can be performed with minimal risk . laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be performed by surgeons who are trained in biliary surgery and knowledgeable in biliary anatomy , and , as with all operations , it should be performed with meticulous attention to technique . 
intra-abdominal abscess in regional enteritis . intra-abdominal abscess ( iaa ) developed in 129 of 610 patients ( 21.2 % ) with crohn 's disease confined to the small bowel . the location of the abscess was intraperitoneal ( ipa ) in 109 ( 17.9 % ) and retroperitoneal ( rpa ) in 20 ( 3.3 % ) . there was a marked preponderance of male patients in the retroperitoneal group ( ratio , 18:2 ) ( p less than 0.0001 ) . all 129 patients were operated on . thirteen of one hundred nine patients ( 12 % ) with ipa were reoperated on for recurrent abscess , and nine ( 8.2 % ) for other reasons . external fistula developed in 24 patients ( 22 % ) after simple incision and drainage . four ( 3.7 % ) died ; one from hepatitis , and three from sepsis 5 , 14 , and 90 days after surgery . of the 20 patients with rpa , two ( 10 % ) were reoperated on for recurrent abscess and four ( 20 % ) for other reasons . external fistula developed in two patients ( 10 % ) . there were no deaths in this group . a small number of patients with iaa complicating regional enteritis had persistent sepsis causing postoperative death , which is , however , six times lower than in our comparable series of crohn 's ( ileo ) colitis . 
risks of intestinal anastomoses in crohn 's disease . six hundred fifty-eight intestinal anastomoses in 429 operations for crohn 's disease were studied prospectively during an 8-year period to detect variables connected with perioperative morbidity . postoperative complications occurred in 9.7 % of the patients , 4 % had to be reoperated on , and the overall mortality rate was 0.5 % . in multivariate analysis by stepwise logistic regression , the only variable significantly ( p = 0.03 ) associated with overall rate of complications was long-term corticosteroid therapy . serious complications were more common in cases of intra-abdominal abscesses ( p = 0.01 ) and preoperative steroid medication ( p = 0.03 ) . the combination of both of these risk factors increased the rate of reoperations from 0.6 % ( no steroids , no abscess ) to 16 % ( steroids and abscess ) . no significant association with postoperative complications could be found for age , sex , duration of disease , previous operations , nutritional status , emergency surgery , extent of disease , type , number , and localization of anastomoses , presence of proximal ileo - / colostomy , or histologically inflamed margins of resection . 
a clinical pilot study combining surgery with intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy to prevent the local recurrence of rectal cancer . intraoperative pelvic hyperthermochemotherapy ( iophc ) with mitomycin c ( mmc ) was prescribed for 14 patients with resectable advanced rectal cancer in an attempt to prevent a postoperative local recurrence . immediately after rectal amputation and extended lymphadenectomy , iophc was performed using physiologic saline containing 40 micrograms/ml of mmc at 45.5 + / - 0.6 c for 90 minutes , with an apparatus devised for iophc . at the end of iophc , the esophageal temperature was 37.2 + / - 0.8 c and cooling was not required . antitumor efficacy and complications in the iophc group were compared with findings in 12 rectal cancer patients who underwent surgery only within the same period of time . operation time was not prolonged with iophc treatment . in cytologic examinations of the pelvic lavage just before iophc treatment , viable cancer cells were detected in 6 of the 14 patients but were never detected in the postoperative exudate drained from the pelvic cavity . of the 12 patients in the control group , 2 had a local recurrence , while in the iophc group there was no local recurrence for 16.9 + / - 9.7 months at this writing . postoperative complications did not differ between the groups . this iophc treatment is a favorable method in eradicating cancer cells for postoperative local recurrence of rectal cancer . 
liver transplantation in children . although liver transplantation is now accepted as the ideal therapy for end-stage liver disease , relatively few centers have gained a large experience in children , and good results have been elusive . technical difficulty and a high incidence of graft failure are among the obstacles to success . at the university of california at los angeles , 39 % of our liver transplants are in the patients who are younger than 18 years . we have analyzed our experience with 103 patients to emphasize factors important to a favorable outcome with the procedure . one hundred twenty-three transplants were performed in 103 children ( mean age , 5.2 years ; 48 % younger than 3 years ) . no reduced-size grafts were used . scrupulous attention to technical details of the vascular reconstruction , including frequent use of the supraceliac aorta of the recipient and interrupted suture techniques , ensured construction of sound hepatic artery and portal vein anastomoses at the first operation . preoperative exchange transfusions were used if the prothrombin time was prolonged beyond 7 seconds , resulting in an average blood loss of only 3.3 volumes . cyclosporine dosage was maintained in the high therapeutic range for the first 4 weeks , and anti-t-cell antibody ( okt3 ) was used for rejection ( 38 % ) . amphotericin prophylaxis was used for biliary atresia patients with multiple previous operations . eighty-two of one hundred three patients ( 80 % ) are alive . there were no intraoperative deaths . actuarial survival rates at 6 months , 1 year , and 5 years are 80 % , 79 % , and 77 % , respectively . survival of patients who underwent transplantation at age less than 1 year is 65 % versus 85 % at age more than 1 year ( p = 0.08 ) . retransplantation was performed in 19 patients ( 18 % ) , with a survival rate of 58 % . hepatic artery thrombosis , the most frequent technical complication , occurred in only 16 patients ( 13 % ) . survival rates of abo identical-match versus nonidentical-match grafts were 96 % and 60 % , respectively ( p = 0.02 ) . graft survival was only 47 % if more than one steroid cycle was needed , compared to 75 % survival with okt3 treatment . despite impairment of renal function ( glomerular filtration rate [ gfr ] less than 80 cc/kg/min ) in 54 % of patients and hypertension requiring therapy in 27 % , 90 % of the children demonstrated enhancement of growth , development , and functional status . the following conclusions were made . ( 1 ) pediatric liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for all types of end-stage liver disease and should be considered early . ( 2 ) factors that enhance survival include technical precision , aggressive retransplantation , antifungal chemoprophylaxis and therapy , and judicious immunosuppression with use of okt3 for rejection . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasms as a cause for recurrent and persistent primary hyperparathyroidism . between 1982 and 1989 , 145 patients underwent operations for persistent or recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism ( hpt ) . at re-exploration , 15 patients ( 10.3 % ) were found to have locally recurrent parathyroid tumors ( 11 patients with adenoma and 4 with carcinoma ) . these 15 patients had 28 previous operations at outside institutions for hpt . patients with locally recurrent hpt secondary to adenoma had a longer disease-free interval than patients with locally recurrent carcinoma . at the time of evaluation at the national institutes of health ( nih ) for recurrent or persistent hpt , each patient was symptomatic and patients with carcinoma had significantly more symptoms and higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone than patients with adenoma . locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm was correctly localized by preoperative testing in 14 of 15 patients . these 15 patients underwent 18 reoperations at nih for excision of locally recurrent parathyroid tumors . following the final reoperation ( two patients had more than one procedure ) , each patient had normal serum levels of calcium . in addition each patient remains biochemically cured ( based on normal serum calcium level ) , with a median follow-up interval of 21 months . local recurrence of parathyroid adenoma comprises a small but significant proportion of cases of recurrent or persistent hpt and can be indistinguishable from parathyroid carcinoma . findings suggestive of carcinoma include shorter disease-free interval , higher serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone , and histologic appearance . whether the locally recurrent parathyroid neoplasm is benign or malignant , aggressive surgery can control serum levels of calcium in these patients with acceptable rates of morbidity . 
role of granulocyte elastase in tissue injury in patients with septic shock complicated by multiple-organ failure . to better understand the role of granulocyte elastase ( ge ) in mediating tissue injury during sepsis , ge levels were measured in plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( balf ) in patients with septic shock ( n = 16 ) and hemorrhagic shock ( n = 30 ) . granulocyte elastase levels were compared to levels of alpha 1-protease inhibitor ( alpha 1-pi ) . results show that although plasma ge-alpha 1-pi complex was initially elevated in patients with hemorrhagic and septic shock , elevations in plasma ge-alpha 1-pi complex ( 831 + / - 241 micrograms/l ) persisted in septic shock patients . alpha 1-protease inhibitor levels in serum were increased , resulting in an inhibition of serum ge activity . granulocyte elastase activity in balf , however , was significantly higher in those patients with septic , as compared to hemorrhagic shock ( 31.4 + / - 25.8 versus 3.7 + / - 4.0 u/l , respectively ) . in addition ge levels were compared to other parameters , including respiratory index , blood neutrophil count , and plasma levels of endotoxin , fibronectin , and coagulation factor xiii . significant correlations were observed between ge-alpha 1-pi and increased endotoxin concentration and decreased fibronectin and coagulation factor xiii levels . significant correlation was found also between ge activity in balf and respiratory index . these findings suggest that severe tissue damage occurred in patients with septic shock complicated by multiple-organ failure . although ge activity appeared to be adequately inhibited by alpha 1-pi in blood , increased ge activity in local tissues , such as lung alveoli , may be responsible for significant local tissue injury during septic shock . 
triiodothyronine in the recovery of stunned myocardium in dogs two groups of dogs were subjected to a 15-minute period of regional myocardial ischemia by snaring the left anterior descending coronary artery proximal to its first diagonal branch . after release of the snare , the dogs were given either placebo ( group 1 : n = 7 ) or triiodothyronine ( t3 ) therapy ( group 2 : n = 6 ) . the dose of t3 given was 0.2 microgram/kg at 30-minute intervals to a total of six doses . plasma free t3 level fell significantly during the ischemic period in both groups and continued to fall after reperfusion in group 1 . in both groups , cardiac function deteriorated significantly during the period of ischemia and rapidly returned to control level after reperfusion . after 90 minutes of reperfusion , however , deterioration of left ventricular function was observed in group 1 and was significantly worse than in group 2 , in which hemodynamic function was maintained and , in fact , improved to levels superior to control . it is suggested that t3 therapy may be worthy of trial in patients in whom reperfusion of the myocardium takes place after a relatively short ischemic period ( the " stunned myocardium " ) . 
rupture of a benign mediastinal teratoma into the right pleural cavity . a 27-year-old woman with a ruptured mediastinal cystic teratoma had high levels of amylase and carcinoembryonic antigen in cystic fluid . the activity of the amylase is thought to be the most likely cause of the rupture . high levels of carcinoembryonic antigen in pleural fluid are not necessarily indicative of a malignant lesion but may suggest the presence of a ruptured teratoma in patients with mediastinal tumors . 
ascites after rupture of dissecting aortic aneurysm into the right atrium . we report successful repair of an aneurysmal aorta-right atrial fistula causing intractable ascites . the clamped " ascending aorta " was drained for mixed return after perfusion through the femoral vessels and opened during hypothermic arrest . return cannulation through the fistula permitted definitive repair . 
new surgical approach to complicated gastroesophageal reflux disease : transthoracic parietal cell vagotomy . surgical treatment of peptic stricture of the esophagus associated with columnar ( barrett ) metaplasia can be a difficult problem . collis-nissen fundoplication restores an intraabdominal antireflux barrier for most cases of peptic stricture ; however , 20 % of patients may have persistence of pathological acid reflux . by reducing acidity of postoperative reflux , parietal cell vagotomy may complement nonresectional surgical results for barrett stricture . 
left ventricular aneurysm secondary to behcet 's disease . a 16-year-old boy with behcet 's disease who was seen with thrombophlebitis of the leg was found to have coronary artery occlusion with postinfarction left ventricular aneurysm . recurrent femoral artery aneurysms and orogenital ulceration developed in him . the diagnostic features together with successful treatment of this patient and a discussion of behcet 's syndrome are presented . 
pleural anesthetics given through an epidural catheter secured inside a chest tube . pain management after thoracic surgical procedures is a difficult clinical problem . a variety of pain management methods are used with variable efficacy . this paper presents an effective method of pleural anesthetic administration using a pleural catheter inserted through a chest tube . 
intraoperative coronary angiography using fluorescein . intraoperative coronary angiography using fluorescein was applied to evaluate the patency of saphenous vein grafts just after completion of the distal anastomosis . by this technique , the area of the revascularized myocardium was well estimated in real time . this intraoperative direct-vision examination gives us more timely and precise information during coronary artery bypass grafting . 
valve replacement in patients with endocarditis and cerebral septic emboli . cerebral septic emboli complicate the cases in 20 % to 40 % of patients with left-sided endocarditis but the management of these patients who require a valvar operation remains unclear . from 1980 to 1988 , the incidence of cerebral septic embolus was 42 % ( n = 45 ) among 106 patients with endocarditis who underwent valve replacement at the university of illinois hospital in chicago . of these 45 patients , 69 % ( n = 31 ) had symptomatic cerebral septic infarctions and 31 % ( n = 14 ) were asymptomatic . findings on cerebral computed tomographic scans included ischemic infarcts ( n = 36 , 80 % ) , hemorrhagic infarcts ( n = 5 , 11 % ) , normal studies ( n = 2 , 4 % ) , and unknown ( n = 2 , 4 % ) . neurological complications after valve replacement included postoperative strokes ( n = 6 , 6 % ) , cerebral abscesses ( n = 2 , 2 % ) , and seizure ( n = 1 , 1 % ) . the presence of a hemorrhagic infarct preoperatively predisposed to a perioperative stroke ( p less than 0.05 ) . in conclusion , cerebral septic infarctions , both symptomatic and asymptomatic , are common among patients with endocarditis referred for valvar operation . in the absence of a hemorrhagic infarct , valve replacement can be performed with minimal risk of a perioperative stroke . 
tracheoesophageal anastomosis for intractable aspiration pneumonia . permanent tracheostomy and tracheoesophageal anastomosis were performed as a means of surgical intervention for the treatment of intractable aspiration pneumonia . conventional methods of tracheoesophageal anastomosis have entailed various problems . the improved method devised by us uses the special histological features and enables safe and reliable anastomosis . by this method , the tracheal perichondrium is retained and the strength of the anastomosed portion of the trachea is maintained , the failure of sutures due to tension on the anastomotic site being prevented . also , reanastomosis can be performed after the cure of primary disease . 
intrathoracic nissen fundoplication : long-term clinical and ph-monitoring evaluation . from 1976 until april 1989 , 31 intrathoracic total fundoplications were performed for reflux esophagitis and irreducible hiatus hernia . in the first 16 patients ( group 1 ) the operation was complicated with acute perforation of the wrap in 4 cases , bronchogastric fistula in 1 , and herniation of the wrap higher in the chest in 1 . technical modifications were applied to 15 more recent patients ( group 2 ) . these are enlargement of the hiatus , looseness of the wrap and its appropriate anchorage , avoidance of forceps when handling the stomach , care with the vagi , and efficient gastric decompression in the postoperative period . the postoperative course was always uneventful in group 2 . twenty-six patients , who still have their initial wrap , were considered for clinical evaluation : 11 from group 1 ( mean follow-up , 81.5 months ) and 15 from group 2 ( mean follow-up , 32.8 months ) . all are free from any symptom of reflux ; gas-bloat syndrome is infrequent and dysphagia is relieved . twenty-four-hour ph monitoring , performed in 14 patients ( 3 from group 1 and 11 from group 2 ) ( mean follow-up , 42 months ) , was normal in 13 ; a pathological upright reflux ( time ph less than 4 , 8.4 % ) was demonstrated in one symptom-free woman in whom endoscopy was unremarkable . mechanisms of complications experienced in group 1 are analyzed in the light of the technical evolution of the procedure , and the place of the intrathoracic total fundoplication in the management of short esophagus is defined , considering the other available surgical techniques . 
empyema thoracis : 14-year experience in a teaching center . one hundred two patients with empyema thoracis were managed at the royal melbourne hospital between 1976 and 1989 . fifty-five cases of empyema thoracis were postpneumonic , 8 followed esophageal rupture , and 5 were associated with thoracic trauma . some form of systemic illness was a major contributing factor in the presentation of 29 patients . a single causal organism was found in 53 patients ( the most common being staphylococcus aureus ) , multiple organisms in 36 , and no growth in 13 . during the years 1983 to 1989 there was an increased incidence of empyemas caused by multiple or antibiotic-resistant organisms . operative drainage was required in 90 patients and 12 were managed by thoracentesis or intercostal tube drainage alone . the in-hospital mortality rate for patients managed nonoperatively was 58 % ( 7 of 12 patients ) ; it was 16 % ( 14 of 90 patients ) for those receiving operative drainage . there were seven late deaths , four empyema related and three nonrelated . early adequate operative drainage is recommended for patients with empyema thoracis . 
delayed chest wall pain due to sternal wire sutures . this report describes 18 patients with disabling chest wall pain due to one or more sternal wire sutures . the pain occurred from 2 to 84 months after a median sternotomy . the pain was described either as sharp and stabbing or as a deep-seated ache . the involved wires had an exaggerated fibrous tissue reaction surrounding the twisted portion . the adjacent noninvolved wires had minimal reaction . in the last 7 patients , serial sections of the fibrous tissue revealed entrapment of one or more sensory nerve fibers . in 6 of the 7 electrical potentials were measured and found to be elevated , indicating wire damage during twisting . ferroxyl tests confirmed the collection of iron ions at this anodic point as a result of corrosion . removal of the involved wires and the fibrous tissue surrounding this anodic point relieved the symptoms of pain and tenderness resulting from entrapped sensory nerves . 
right pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding . serial assessment of pulmonary artery flow by doppler echocardiography was carried out in 15 infants after pulmonary artery banding . three infants were identified as having branch pulmonary artery obstruction based on diastolic pulmonary artery flow . it is concluded that this flow profile may be specific for branch pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding . 
amiodarone versus bretylium for suppression of reperfusion arrhythmias in dogs . reperfusion arrhythmias are an important complication of interventions to limit infarct size . recently , amiodarone has been shown to be rapidly effective in suppressing sustained , incessant ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this setting . this study evaluated the time course of arrhythmia suppression and comparative efficacy of amiodarone versus bretylium in a canine model of reperfusion arrhythmias . of 23 dogs subjected to a harris two-stage coronary artery ligation followed by release , 18 demonstrated clinically significant ventricular arrhythmias and received either intravenous amiodarone , 5 mg/kg ( 9 dogs ) , or intravenous bretylium , 5 mg/kg ( 9 dogs ) . direct-current shocks for sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation were administered as necessary . amiodarone rapidly suppressed sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in this model with no dog in the amiodarone-treated group requiring cardioversion after completion of the 15-minute infusion versus 4 of 9 dogs in the bretylium-treated group ( p less than 0.05 ) . amiodarone was more effective than bretylium in suppressing episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation , episodes of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia , and premature ventricular complexes . the blood pressure and heart rate decreased more after amiodarone administration than after bretylium administration . we conclude that , in the canine reperfusion arrhythmia model , amiodarone is rapidly effective in suppressing ventricular arrhythmias and is more effective than bretylium . 
traumatic asphyxia . during a 5-year period , we treated 14 cases of traumatic asphyxia . there were 12 male and 2 female patients ranging in age from 2 to 32 years . most suffered crushing injuries at work or were run over by motor vehicles . mild to severe cervicofacial cyanosis and petechiae developed in all patients . a fear response was reported by 12 of the patients . subconjunctival hemorrhage was also found in 12 patients . nine patients had tachypnea and 7 complained of dyspnea . most of the patients suffered some associated injuries including 8 head injuries , 7 pulmonary contusions , and 6 cases of blunt abdominal trauma . less-associated injuries were rib fractures , brachial and radial nerve injuries , hemothorax , and pneumothorax . the hospital stay ranged from 4 to 28 days ( mean , 14 days ) and follow-up from 10 to 60 months ( mean , 32 months ) . treatment for traumatic asphyxia included measurement of arterial blood gases , oxygen supplementation , and intubation with mechanical ventilation . the patients ' recovery conditions were relative to the severity of injury and the associated injuries . 
might free arterial grafts fail due to spasm ? the rat femoral artery was used as a free graft and was studied after 2 , 7 , 14 , 30 , and 60 days . the patency of the grafts was 100 % ( 2 days , n = 6 ) , 78 % ( 7 days , n = 9 ) , 63 % ( 14 days , n = 8 ) , 33 % ( 30 days , n = 12 ) , and 18 % ( 60 days , n = 11 ) . histology showed an intimal thickening after 14 days and the media , which in the controls consisted of eight to ten layers of myocytes , was reduced to six to eight cell layers . during the first 2 weeks the graft segments had an impaired contraction when exposed to krebs solution with 124 mmol/l k + , whereas after 1 month and later the graft segments approached the controls or had even higher contractile force . the thromboxane mimic u-46619 elicited full contractile force at all times whereas the potency was significantly lower during the first 14 days . noradrenaline was unable to induce contraction in the graft segments during the first 14 days , but at 30 and 60 days it had regained full contractile force and was significantly more potent ( approximately 60 times ) in the graft segments compared with the controls . this study suggests that intimal thickening and hypercontractility might be a problem in free muscular arterial grafts . 
primary care patients who refuse specialized mental health services . the charts of 65 patients who completed mental health care referrals were compared with those of 65 patients who failed to complete such referrals . in the year before referral , the noncompliant patients made 37 % more medical visits than the compliant patients . as compared with the compliant patients , a significantly greater proportion of the noncompliant patients ' medical visits were for difficult-to-explain somatic symptoms . mental health referrals from some physicians were much more successful than referrals from other physicians . by attending to their patients ' pattern of health care utilization , primary care physicians may be able to identify patients at high risk for noncompliance with mental health referrals . 
acute rheumatic fever in west virginia . not just a disease of children . rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community . we describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever ( arf ) in west virginia . this is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of arf in the ohio valley area in the last 4 years . in contrast to the other reports , nearly two thirds of our cases of arf were in adults , more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of arf . in these adults with recurrences , none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation . carditis was present in seven adults , two without a history of carditis . arthritis was present in all adult patients . these data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of arf and document that arf is not simply a disease of childhood . furthermore , our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of arf , especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection . 
suicide attempts by the old and the very old . attempted suicide by the elderly is a major psychiatric problem . ninety-five patients between 60 and 90 years of age were evaluated by a psychiatric consultation service after a suicide attempt . characteristics of this group included ( 1 ) a high degree of premeditation , ( 2 ) a tendency toward firearm use and wounds to the head , ( 3 ) male sex , ( 4 ) coexisting medical problems , ( 5 ) serious intent that increased by decade , ( 6 ) solitary living arrangements , ( 7 ) presence or history of a major psychiatric illness , and ( 8 ) ill health reported as a precipitant to suicidality . major depression was the most common psychiatric diagnosis , with congestive heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease the most frequently noted physical ailments . this elderly population of attempters resembled older persons who actually completed suicide and differed significantly from 1630 persons aged 16 to 59 years who attempted suicide . heightened investigation of depressive features , treatment of alcohol abuse , early referral for psychiatric care , limited access to firearms , and strategies aimed at decreasing social isolation are recommended to decrease the likelihood of completed suicide in the elderly . 
treatment of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand ( ' trigger finger ' ) with corticosteroids . a prospective study of the response to local injection . we developed a protocol to maximize medical therapy for " trigger finger . " fifty-eight patients with 77 episodes of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand that was resistant to rest , therapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , and/or splinting were treated with single or multiple injections of depo-methylprednisolone acetate or triamcinolone acetonide . patients were prospectively followed up for an average of 4.6 years . results showed that symptoms and signs resolved in 61 % after a single injection . recurrent episodes , after prolonged pain-free intervals , occurred in 27 % and were effectively re-treated with injection . in 12 % of cases , either injection failed or early recurrence required surgical release . local adverse reactions to injection , including pain at the injection site , stiffness , ecchymosis , or atrophy of subcutaneous fat , were self-limited . no episodes of postinjection infection or tendon rupture occurred . the medical management of flexor tenosynovitis with local corticosteroid injection ( s ) is effective in nearly 90 % of cases and is free from serious adverse reactions . 
the relationship between hypochondriasis and medical illness . forty-one diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders-iii-revised hypochondriacs were accrued from a primary care practice . seventy-five control subjects were selected at random from among the remainder of the patients in the same clinic . all subjects completed a structured diagnostic interview and standardized self-report questionnaires . medical morbidity was assessed with a medical record audit and with primary physicians ' ratings . the hypochondriacal and comparison samples did not differ in aggregate medical morbidity , although the hypochondriacal sample had more undiagnosed complaints and nonspecific findings in their medical records . within the comparison sample , higher levels of medical morbidity were associated with higher levels of hypochondriacal symptoms . this occurred primarily because the most serious medical disorders were associated with more bodily preoccupation , disease conviction , and somatization . within the hypochondriacal sample , no correlation was found between the degree of hypochondriasis and the extent of medical morbidity . 
preoperative aspirin therapy and reoperation for bleeding after coronary artery bypass surgery . we performed a case-control study to estimate the relative risk of reoperation for bleeding in coronary artery bypass graft patients who had taken aspirin within the 7 days preceding surgery . comparison of 90 cases of reoperation with 180 matched control subjects gave an estimated odds ratio for reoperation of 1.82 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.23 to 3.32 ) . although their preoperative coagulation values were similar , cases used significantly more whole blood ( cases , 9.5 + / - 5.2 units ; control subjects , 3.0 + / - 2.0 units ; median + / - interquartile range ) , packed red blood cells ( cases , 2.1 + / - 4.0 units ; control subjects , 0.9 + / - 2.0 units ) , and platelets ( cases , 12.2 + / - 12.0 units ; control subjects , 2.9 + / - 4.0 units ) than control subjects . cases had intensive care unit stays of 4.7 + / - 5.7 days ( mean + / - sd ) vs 2.1 + / - 1.9 days for control subjects and postoperative hospitalizations of 10.9 + / - 8.2 days vs 7.0 + / - 3.2 days for control subjects . we conclude that aspirin exposure within 7 days before coronary bypass surgery is associated with an increased rate of reoperation for bleeding and that reoperation is associated with large increases in transfusion requirements and intensive care unit and hospital stays . 
multimodality evoked potential testing in acute mild closed head injury . multimodality evoked potential ( mep ) testing , including brainstem auditory , visual , and somatosensory evoked potentials , have been reported to be useful in predicting outcome in severe closed head injury . brainstem auditory evoked potentials have been demonstrated to be abnormal in 10 % to 40 % of acute mild head injury . a prospective study of 18 patients with mild closed head injury was undertaken to determine the usefulness of mep screening within two weeks of the acute event . long latency event-related potentials ( p300s ) , in response to auditory stimuli with an oddball paradigm , were included in the screening . the subjects had several symptoms consistent with the postconcussive syndrome at the time of the evoked potential testing . only one patient had an abnormal evoked potential response ( greater than three standard deviations from the mean ) from all the testing done . the standard methods of mep testing were insensitive to quantifying the possible physiologic changes that are associated with memory deficits , lethargy , and emotional irritability after mild closed head injury . 
the ventilator-dependent child : issues in diagnosis and management . infants , children , and adolescents with chronic respiratory failure are surviving in increasing numbers and , thereby , producing a significant population of ventilator-dependent pediatric patients . chronic respiratory failure can occur as a complication of a wide variety of disease states ; in pathophysiologic terms , it generally results from either decreased central nervous system output or inadequate force generated by the respiratory pump . its laboratory hallmark is hypercapnia with or without hypoxemia . stabilization of the patient with mechanical ventilatory support may permit long-term survival . management of the ventilator-dependent pediatric patient is a complex task that must begin with an accurate prognostication of each patient 's survival and quality of life . once a decision is made concerning the practicality and appropriateness of long-term ventilatory support , informed choices must be made with respect to need for an artificial airway , mode of ventilation , and location of care . many younger patients , especially those with intrinsic lung disease ( like bronchopulmonary dysplasia ) , may require a hospital setting for long-term care , whereas others with neuromuscular or central disorders may benefit from being discharged to home . the patient 's family must be thoroughly educated in the child 's care , and they must be involved in decision-making . a multidisciplinary team of physicians , therapists , nurses , and other professionals is required to deliver optimal care . outcome is good for most patients who are carefully selected . 
studies of the route , magnitude , and time course of bacterial translocation in a model of systemic inflammation . bacteria have been documented to translocate from the gut to systemic organs , yet the exact route by which they translocate remains unclear . to determine the route of bacterial translocation , different dosages of zymosan were used to activate complement and cause systemic inflammation . at a zymosan dose of 0.1 mg/g , bacteria translocated only to the mesenteric lymph node complex , whereas at a dose of 0.5 mg/g the bacteria translocated systematically . in rats receiving 0.5-mg / g doses of zymosan , the bacteria appeared to reach systemic organs via the portal blood rather than via the mesenteric lymph , as bacteria were present in 87 % of portal blood samples but only 25 % of lymph samples . the number of bacteria exiting the portal vein was 11,500 times greater than the number exiting via the lymph . thus , both the route and extent of bacterial translocation varies based on the magnitude of the inflammatory insult , with the portal blood being the major route of bacterial translocation to systemic organs . 
effect of aerosolized fibrin solution on intraperitoneal contamination . the potential deleterious effects of aerosolized fibrin on contaminated procedures were investigated in a rat model of peritonitis . one hundred forty rats were divided into two groups . in the control group , gelatin capsules containing feces ( 10 ( 7 ) bacteria per milliliter ) and barium sulfate at various dilutions were placed into the abdomen ; in the second experimental group , a solution of cryoprecipitate , thrombin , and calcium was sprayed diffusely into the peritoneal cavity after similar fecal contamination . fecal inocula with low bacterial concentrations ( 0.01 , 0.1 , and 0.15 ml ) caused few deaths from peritonitis or abscess formation in either group . heavy peritoneal contamination ( 0.25 , 0.3 , and 0.5 ml ) caused early deaths from peritonitis in both groups , with 80 % of the deaths due to sepsis in the first 48 hours . however , in the moderately contaminated rats ( 0.2 ml of fecal inoculate ) , fibrin aerosol reduced the 10-day mortality from 80 % to 10 % . in all survivors in the fibrin-treated group , intraperitoneal abscesses developed . with intraperitoneal bacterial concentrations of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) organisms , early acute mortality from fibrinopurulent peritonitis is decreased at the expense of late , localized , nonlethal abscess formation . aerosolized fibrin solution must be used with caution in contaminated surgery . 
oral indomethacin for acute renal colic . a number of studies have suggested that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents can relieve renal colic by a mechanism of action different from that of narcotics , offering the potential advantage of avoiding narcotic side-effects such as alteration of mental status . the authors prospectively administered oral indomethacin , 50 mg , to 25 nonvomiting patients with acute renal colic due to a documented stone . eleven patients group ( i ) received the drug in an unblinded , nonrandomized fashion after failure of oral or parenteral narcotics to provide satisfactory pain relief , either at home or in the emergency department . in 14 additional patients group ( ii ) indomethacin was given as the only initial treatment . pain intensity before and after treatment was reported using a 1-to-10 scale . in group i , pain decreased from 5.8 + / - 2.7 to 3.6 + / - 3.8 ( p less than .02 ) . six of the 11 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50 % or more , which occurred within 25 + / - 11 minutes , and in 5 of these 6 , pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level . in group ii , pain decreased from 7.6 + / - 1.5 to 4.6 + / - 4.0 ( p less than .008 ) . eight of the 14 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50 % or more , which occurred within 40 + / - 14 minutes , and in 5 of these 8 pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level . among all 25 patients who received indomethacin , pain relief was not significantly associated with the duration of pain before treatment or with patient age or sex . there was a trend for pretreatment pain intensity to be higher among nonresponders ( p = .07 ) . 
mediastinitis following nasal intubation in the emergency department . a patient who developed a retropharyngeal abscess and fatal mediastinitis following emergent nasal intubation is described . despite aggressive surgical therapy the patient died of mediastinitis . although mediastinitis as a complication of oral intubation has been described , mediastinitis following nasal intubation has not previously been reported . 
the febrile alcoholic in the emergency department . the authors retrospectively reviewed the charts of 31 alcoholic patients admitted with fever without a defined source . in our population 58 % of patients were subsequently found to have an infectious cause for their fever . pneumonia was the most common infection , but occult urinary tract infections were seen surprisingly often . noninfectious but serious disorders , such as delirium tremens , prolonged postictal state , and subarachnoid hemorrhage , were also common . infectious and noninfectious causes commonly coexisted . the most common noninfectious cause was alcohol withdrawal , with or without seizures . the authors believe that indigent , malnourished , chronic alcoholics with fever for which a source can not be readily identified , should usually be admitted to the hospital for observation and to await culture results . 
differential reading recovery in patients with severe to moderate closed head injury . a differential recovery was seen when alternate forms of a nationally standardized test of reading vocabulary , literal reading comprehension and inferential reading comprehension was administered serially to 10 consecutive closed head injury admissions to a university rehabilitation hospital . inferential reading comprehension was the most impaired and had the fastest recovery rate . subtle cognitive deficits in inferential reading comprehension were detected when reading vocabulary was at or better than a twelfth grade level . maximal recovery of all three reading functions occurred within 4 months after trauma , with most occurring in the first 3 months . the reading recovery pattern parallels the recovery of intelligence scores in the literature . 
spinal nerve stimulation in the diagnosis of lumbosacral radiculopathy . direct spinal nerve stimulation was compared with needle electromyography ( emg ) in 40 patients who were suspected of having an l5 or s1 radiculopathy . for spinal nerve stimulation , we adapted a monopolar needle electrode inserted deep into the paraspinal muscle . the minimal latency , amplitude , and negative phase area of compound muscle action potential from myotomal muscles were recorded with computer assistance . abnormality was considered to be significant when the value fell outside of 2 sd of control mean values . among 17 patients with clinical evidence of radiculopathy , needle emg was abnormal in 10 patients ( 58.8 % ) , whereas in the nerve stimulation test the abnormalities were shown in 16 patients ( 94.1 % ) ; in amplitude difference and the abnormal area , differences were shown in 12 patients ( 70.6 % ) . among 23 patients with only subjective symptoms of radiculopathy , needle emg was abnormal in nine patients ( 39.1 % ) , whereas the abnormal amplitude differences were shown in 18 patients ( 78.3 % ) and 15 patients ( 65.2 % ) with abnormal area difference by spinal nerve stimulation , respectively . direct spinal nerve stimulation is recognized as an objective and sensitive test in the diagnosis of lumbosacral radiculopathy . 
in vitro characterization of a biologically active molecular clone of hiv-2nih-z containing a nef deletion and expressing a full-length transmembrane protein . we have previously described the cloning and sequencing of a novel stain of human immunodeficiency virus type 2 ( hiv-2 ) called hiv-2nih-z . a plasmid clone , phiv2z , containing the full-length provirus has now been constructed , and virus particles have been obtained upon transfection into cos-1 and h-9 cells . these particles can infect a number of t-cell lines and exert a cytopathic effect on fresh human and macaque peripheral blood lymphocytes . the cloned virus is biologically and morphologically indistinguishable from its parental uncloned strain as shown by restriction enzyme analysis , electron microscopy , and kinetics of infection . however , as shown by radioimmunoprecipitation assays , the cloned virus-infected cells express a full-length gp41 protein as predicted by the nucleotide sequence , whereas the wild-type parental strain expresses a truncated gp33 protein . both the parental strain and the cloned virus possess a deletion encompassing the end of the nef gene within the u3 region which apparently does not affect their in vitro cytopathic and replicative capacities . 
spinal anaesthesia in day-care surgery with a 26-gauge needle . we studied 106 day-care surgical patients ( 52 male ) aged 18-70 yr ( mean 49.6 yr ) who received spinal anaesthesia with a 26-gauge spinal needle . the incidence of headache , back pain and patient acceptability were investigated after operation using a questionnaire . the incidence of postspinal headache was 7.5 % , and 11.3 % of patients developed back pain . one patient remained in hospital because of hypotension and dizziness . there were no major complications and patient acceptability was almost 100 % . we conclude that spinal anaesthesia for day-care surgery is easy to perform and cost effective . 
use of the calcium agonist bay k 8644 for in vitro diagnosis of susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia . we have studied the effects of the calcium agonist bay k 8644 on the in vitro halothane test in 10 malignant hyperthermia-susceptible ( mhs ) , 12 mh " equivocal " to halothane ( mheh ) , 30 mh non-susceptible ( mhn ) and 10 control patients . bay k 8644 potentiated the halothane-induced contracture in muscle strips from both mhs and mheh patients . the drug produced a more obvious difference in contracture responses between the mheh group compared with the mhn and control groups . 
prevention of hypotension following spinal anaesthesia for elective caesarean section by wrapping of the legs . twenty-four parturients undergoing elective caesarean section were allocated randomly to have the legs wrapped with elasticated esmarch bandages immediately following spinal anaesthesia or to serve as controls . significant hypotension ( systolic arterial pressure less than 100 mm hg and less than 80 % of baseline value ) was treated with i.v. ephedrine in 5-mg boluses . leg wrapped patients had a significantly ( p = 0.0033 ) lower incidence ( 16.7 % ) of hypotension than controls ( 83.3 % ) . only two patients in the leg wrapped group required ephedrine compared with 10 in the control group . systolic arterial pressure was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) less in control subjects at 4 , 5 and 6 min following spinal injection . no patient in the leg wrapped group became hypotensive following removal of the elasticated bandages . 
massive histamine release in a patient with systemic mastocytosis . we have measured plasma histamine concentrations , systemic vascular resistance , cardiac output and arterial pressure during laparotomy in a patient with systemic mastocytosis . the patient developed vasodilation and hypotension during surgery , associated with a massive increase in plasma histamine concentration . 
epidermal dendritic s100 positive cells in necrobiosis lipoidica and granuloma annulare . using an antibody to s100 protein , the number of dendritic cells above the basal layer in the epidermis was assessed in necrobiosis lipoidica and granuloma annulare . a statistically significantly higher number of these cells was found within the epidermis in necrobiosis lipoidica compared with granuloma annulare and normal skin . the numbers were similar to those seen in sarcoidosis and tuberculous reactions in the skin , which raises the possibility of an immune pathogenesis for necrobiosis lipoidica . 
anxiety and depression in patients with chronic urticaria and generalized pruritus . thirty-four dermatology out-patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria and 34 with idiopathic generalized pruritus were investigated using standardized self-assessment psychological questionnaires to determine the incidence of significant symptoms of depression and anxiety . these patients were compared with age - and sex-matched but otherwise unselected general dermatology out-patients . using the beck depression inventory , significantly more patients with generalized pruritus ( 32.4 % ) had depressive symptomatology ( score greater than 14 ) than controls ( 13.2 % , p less than 0.05 ) . although more patients with chronic urticaria had depressive symptomatology ( 14.7 % ) than controls ( 4.4 % ) , the difference was not statistically significant . using the speilberger state-trait anxiety inventory there were no significant differences between the patients with pruritus or urticaria and their controls with respect to state or trait anxiety scores above the upper 90 % probability limit for the general population . thus , significant depression may be expected in a substantial proportion of patients with idiopathic generalized pruritus but in a relatively small proportion of those with chronic urticaria . 
topical treatment of necrotic foot ulcers in diabetic patients : a comparative trial of duoderm and mezinc . an open randomized controlled study was carried out of 44 diabetic patients with necrotic foot ulcers treated with adhesive zinc oxide tape ( mezinc ) or with an adhesive occlusive hydrocolloid dressing ( duoderm ) . fourteen of the 21 patients treated with mezinc had their necrotic ulcers improved by at least 50 % compared to six out of 21 with the hydrocolloid dressing ( p less than 0.025 ) . fifteen patients showed an increase in the area of necrosis during the course of the 5-week study and of these , 10 had been treated with the hydrocolloid dressing . 
interleukin-8 production in red blood cell incompatibility . hemolytic transfusion reactions ( htr ) are characterized by fever , shock , organ system failure , intravascular coagulation , and possibly death . the same findings may be associated with sepsis . neutrophils have been implicated in the pathogenesis of htr , although a mechanism for neutrophil activation has not been shown . in addition , the possible role that cytokines may play in htr has not been investigated . we show that interleukin-8 ( il-8 ) , a cytokine with chemotactic and neutrophil-activation properties , is produced in whole blood following addition of abo-incompatible red blood cells , in a dose - and time-dependent manner related to the degree of hemolysis , and is inhibited by inactivation of complement . il-8 production is accompanied by increased gene expression in the buffy coat . this observation has implications for the understanding of the pathogenesis of and for the treatment of htr . 
donor leukocyte transfusions for treatment of recurrent chronic myelogenous leukemia in marrow transplant patients . three patients with hematologic relapse after bone marrow transplantation for chronic myelogenous leukemia were treated with interferon alpha and transfusion of viable donor buffy coat . all had complete hematologic and cytogenetic remission , which persisted 32 to 91 weeks after treatment . in two patients graft-versus-host disease developed and was treated by immunosuppression . these results are an example of adoptive immunotherapy without cytoreductive chemotherapy or radiotherapy in human chimeras . 
regulatory control of the terminal complement proteins at the surface of human endothelial cells : neutralization of a c5b-9 inhibitor by antibody to cd59 . functionally inhibitory antibody to the plasma membrane complement inhibitor cd59 has been used to investigate control of the terminal complement proteins at the endothelial cell surface . antibodies against purified human erythrocyte cd59 ( polyclonal anti-cd59 and monoclonal antibodies [ moabs ] 1f1 and 1f5 ) were found to bind specifically to monolayers of cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells , and by western blotting to recognize an 18 - to 21-kd endothelial protein . when bound to the endothelial monolayer , anti-cd59 ( immunoglobulin g or fab fragment ) potentiated membrane pore formation induced upon c9 binding to c5b-8 , and augmented the c5b-9-induced cellular responses , including stimulated secretion of von willebrand factor and expression of catalytic surface for the prothrombinase enzyme complex . although potentiating endothelial responses to the terminal complement proteins , anti-cd59 had no effect on the response of these cells to stimulation by histamine . taken together , these data suggest that human endothelial cells express the cd59 cell surface inhibitor of the terminal complement proteins , which serves to protect these cells from pore-forming and cell-stimulatory effects of the c5b-9 complex . these data also suggest that the inactivation or deletion of this cell surface regulatory molecule would increase the likelihood for procoagulant changes in endothelium exposed to complement activation in plasma . 
t ( 3 ; 21 ) ( q26 ; q22 ) : a recurring chromosomal abnormality in therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia . we have identified an identical reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 3 and 21 with breakpoints at bands 3q26 and 21q22 , [ t ( 3 ; 21 ) ( q26 ; q22 ) ] , in the malignant cells from five adult patients with therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome ( t-mds ) or acute myeloid leukemia ( t-aml ) . primary diagnoses were hodgkin 's disease in two patients and ovarian carcinoma , breast cancer , and polycythemia vera in one patient each . patients had been treated with chemotherapy including an alkylating agent for their primary disease 1 to 18 years before the development of t-mds or t-aml . we have not observed the t ( 3 ; 21 ) in over 1,500 patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia arising de novo or in over 1,000 patients with lymphoid malignancies . we have previously reported that the t ( 3 ; 21 ) occurs in philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) . thus , the t ( 3 ; 21 ) appears to be limited to t-mds/t-aml and cml , both of which represent malignant disorders of an early hematopoietic precursor cell . these results provide a new focus for the study of therapy-related leukemia at the molecular level . 
hybridization protection assay : a rapid , sensitive , and specific method for detection of philadelphia chromosome-positive leukemias . the philadelphia ( ph1 ) chromosome is present in greater than 90 % of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) and in 2 % to 20 % of those with acute leukemias , for which it is an important prognostic marker too . the chimeric bcr-abl mrnas resulting from the translocation encode either a 210-kd or a 190-kd protein . the techniques used to detect ph1 chromosome include karyotyping , southern analysis to demonstrate bcr rearrangement , and polymerase chain reaction to amplify the bcr-abl transcripts . however , the routine performance of these methods by clinical laboratories is cumbersome , time consuming , and exposes laboratory personnel to radioisotopes . we describe here the clinical application of a new method , the hybridization protection assay ( hpa ) , which uses chemiluminescent acridinium-ester-labeled probes in conjunction with pcr for detection of the amplified bcr-abl sequences . the method is sensitive , specific , and can reliably distinguish between the transcripts for p190bcr-abl and p210bcr-abl . in contrast to the 2 days or longer required for conventional hybridization , hpa analysis can be completed in less than 30 minutes . we have successfully used this method to analyze 60 leukemia samples ( 34 from ph1-negative acute leukemias ; 6 from ph1-positive acute leukemias ; and 20 from cml ) with complete correlation ( of bcr-abl positivity or negativity ) with the results of karyotype or southern blot analysis of genomic dna for bcr rearrangement . therefore , the hpa , in conjunction with pcr , appears to provide a rapid and reliable test for the diagnosis of ph1-positivity . 
regulatory elements of the erythropoietin gene . because the human hepatoma cell line hep3b produces erythropoietin ( epo ) in a regulated fashion , it can be used to investigate the cis-acting regulatory elements of the epo gene . comparison of primate and mouse sequences shows strong homology not only in the coding sequence but also within the 5 ' flanking region , the first intron , and the 3 ' flanking region . these portions of the epo gene were inserted 5 ' and 3 ' to a reporter gene , human growth hormone ( gh ) . 5a is a 1,192-base pair ( bp ) hindiii-xbal fragment that extends from 378 bp 5 ' to the cap site through the first intron . to obviate the problem of false initiation of translation from the epo atg start codon , this site was changed to tag by site-directed mutagenesis . 3a is a 255-bp accl-bglii fragment that extends 67 bp upstream from the epo termination codon and covers most of the 3 ' noncoding region of homology . the plasmid dnas were transfected by electroporation into hep3b cells with rsvcat as an internal standard to correct for transfection efficiency . one aliquot of cells was exposed to 50 mumol/l cocl2 or to 1 % o2 . at the end of the incubations , gh and epo were measured in the cell media and the cell pellet was assayed for cat . production of gh was stimulated 1.7-fold by cobalt or hypoxia . furthermore , addition of 3a to the gh gene , irrespective of orientation , stimulated gh production 2.6-fold with cocl2 and 2.3-fold with hypoxia . stable cell lines were produced by cotransfection of the above constructions , along with the selectable marker psv-neo . in two clones , exposure to hypoxia resulted in much more marked ( 16-fold ) induction of gh . stimulus of both gh and epo production by hypoxia was partially abrogated by carbon monoxide . these results demonstrate the presence of promoter and enhancer elements within the human epo gene that are appropriately responsive to hypoxia and cobalt . 
interleukin-6 mrna and protein increase in vivo following induction of acute thrombocytopenia in mice . induction of experimental thrombocytopenia in rodents results in the enhancement of megakaryocytic growth and differentiation . interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) and il-6 , cytokines with a broad spectrum of biologic activities , stimulate megakaryocytopoiesis in vitro . to determine if expression of these factors might increase in response to experimental thrombocytopenia , we measured steady-state levels of il-3 and il-6 mrna following rabbit antiplatelet serum ( aps ) injection . groups of mice were injected intravenously with 0.2 ml aps while control animals received rabbit antilymphocyte serum ( als ) , normal rabbit serum ( nrs ) , or phosphate-buffered saline ( pbs ) . at various times up to 72 hours after injection mice were exsanguinated and splenectomized . platelet counts in the experimental animals were less than 12 % of controls . splenic rna was hybridized in solution to 32p-utp-labeled crna probes for il-3 and il-6 . rnase-resistant hybrids were resolved on denaturing gels and visualized autoradiographically . il-3 hybrids were undetectable at all time points tested , irrespective of the film exposure time or specific activity of the probe . conversely , il-6 hybrids were easily visualized and showed peak expression at 1.5 to 2.0 hours . by 3 hours , il-6 mrna had returned almost to the level of the controls . similar results were observed in the bone marrow , although maximal il-6 mrna in that tissue was observed 4 hours following aps administration . to determine if this mrna increment was associated with a concomitant increase in bioactive protein , serum was tested for its ability to stimulate il-6-dependent b9 cells . at 1.75 hours following injection , experimental animals showed a small but significant increment in il-6 activity compared with controls ( 200 + / - 30 u/ml il-6 compared with 129 + / - 17 u/ml in als-injected controls , 106 + / - 17 u/ml in nrs-injected controls and 84 + / - 17 u/ml in pbs-injected controls ) . the data show that il-6 mrna and bioactive protein increase in response to acute immunothrombocytopenia , while no increment in il-3 is detectable . these results suggest that il-6 may play a role in the physiologic response to acute immunothrombocytopenia . 
neutrophil function and pyogenic infections in bone marrow transplant recipients . in a consecutive entry trial , the incidence and time course of decreased neutrophil function was assessed in 20 patients treated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . the aim of the study was to assess the prognostic value of low neutrophil function for late pyogenic infections . chemotaxis , superoxide production , and phagocytic-bactericidal activity were studied before and 2 , 6 , 9 , and 12 months after bmt . skin window migration was quantitatively assessed 2 months after bmt . infectious complications were recorded prospectively with preset criteria during 1 year . six of the 20 leukemic patients had defective neutrophil function before bmt . two months after bmt all 10 patients with greater than stage ii graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) , and 6 of 10 patients with less than or equal to stage ii gvhd had at least one decreased function . at this time , patients with subsequent pyogenic infections had lower chemotaxis ( p less than .05 ) , phagocytic-bactericidal activity ( p less than .005 ) , and superoxide production ( p less than .025 ) than those without . defective skin window migration and combined defects were predictive for late pyogenic infections . at 9 months all tests were normal in seven patients surviving without gvhd . in contrast , at 9 months three of three patients , and at 1 year two of three with chronic gvhd had still decreased neutrophil function . in conclusion , neutrophil function is frequently impaired during the first months after bmt . combined neutrophil defects predispose to pyogenic infections and indicate the patient at risk . 
urological complications in 350 consecutive renal transplants . ten urological complications ( 2.9 % ) were found in 350 kidney transplants performed in this centre . these included obstructive uropathy ( 20 % ) , urinary leaks ( 40 % ) , distal uretic fistulas ( necrosis ) ( 30 % ) and renal calculi ( 10 % ) . two grafts were lost due to chronic rejection 9 and 30 months post-operatively . the remaining 8 patients have stable renal function ( mean creatinine 1.5 mg % ) . it was concluded that meticulous surgical technique may reduce the number of urological complications and early diagnosis and prompt surgical treatment may help to save the grafts . 
emphysematous pyelonephritis : surgical implications . emphysematous pyelonephritis in patients with diabetes mellitus is increasingly recognised as a disease requiring urgent and aggressive treatment . we present 3 cases of emphysematous pyelonephritis ; 1 patient required percutaneous nephrostomy followed by nephroureterectomy but the other 2 were successfully managed with antibiotics and control of diabetes . diagnosis was confirmed by sequential imaging techniques which demonstrated an inflammatory renal mass associated with gas and fluid . 
does ethamsylate reduce haemorrhage in transurethral prostatectomy ? a double-blind , randomised trial of 44 consecutive patients undergoing transurethral prostatectomy demonstrated that ethamsylate ( dicynene ) did not reduce blood loss during either the operative or the post - operative periods . 
acute epididymitis : why patient and consort must be investigated . in this prospective study of 49 patients under 35 years of age with clinically diagnosed epididymitis , detailed microbiological investigation identified an infective cause in 67 % . chlamydia trachomatis was the commonest agent , present in 25 patients , but in 12 of these detection was based solely on raised antibody titres ; 20 of the 28 female consorts screened were partners of men with chlamydial epididymitis and 80 % of them were also positive for this infection . isolating the micro-organism from 14 of 16 consorts indicated active infection despite the negative swabs from the men . if this important infection is to be adequately treated we recommend that all patients in this age group with epididymitis and their partners should be referred to a specialist unit with access to full chlamydia laboratory facilities . 
cytogenetic evidence of clonality in a case of pigmented villonodular synovitis . pigmented villonodular synovitis is an uncommon benign lesion that is characterized by diffuse synovial proliferation . based on animal models , this lesion has been conjectured previously to be reactive in nature . in this report , the authors present the histologic and cytogenetic findings for a pigmented villonodular synovitis that was excised from the right knee of a 47-year-old man . trisomy 7 was observed in 24 of 75 ( 35 % ) metaphases obtained from short-term culture of cells from this tumor . these findings suggest that some cases of pigmented villonodular synovitis represent clonal , neoplastic proliferations . 
percent tumor necrosis as a predictor of treatment response in canine osteosarcoma . the percent tumor necrosis was determined in 200 dogs with spontaneously occurring osteosarcoma . one hundred dogs had no treatment before amputation or death . one hundred other dogs were treated with either radiation therapy alone ( n = 23 ) , intraarterial ( ia ) cisplatin alone ( n = 16 ) , intravenous ( iv ) cisplatin alone ( n = 6 ) , radiation therapy plus ia cisplatin ( n = 47 ) , or radiation therapy plus iv cisplatin ( n = 8 ) . eighty-nine of these 100 dogs had their tumors resected 3 weeks after the end of therapy ( 6 weeks after the initiation of therapy ) and replaced with a cortical bone allograft . dogs with preoperative treatment were evaluated for local tumor control and time to metastasis . the mean percent tumor necrosis in untreated osteosarcoma was 26.8 % . the mean percent tumor necrosis for dogs receiving radiation only , ia cisplatin only , and iv cisplatin only was 81.6 % , 49.1 % and 23.8 % , respectively . the mean percent tumor necrosis for dogs receiving radiation therapy plus ia cisplatin or radiation therapy plus iv cisplatin was 83.7 % and 78.2 % , respectively . there was no significant difference between percent tumor necrosis in untreated osteosarcoma compared with those receiving iv cisplatin , but there was a significant increase in percent tumor necrosis with all other treatments . a mathematic model for the effect of cisplatin and radiation dose was developed using multiple regression analysis . the radiation dose calculated to cause at least 80 % tumor necrosis was 42.2 gy ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 38.0 to 47.6 gy ) when radiation was given alone and 28.1 gy ( 95 % ci , 21.3 to 36.6 gy ) when radiation was combined with ia cisplatin . areas of viable tumor tended to be most frequent adjacent to the articular cartilage and in the joint capsule . percent tumor necrosis was strongly predictive for local tumor control ; 28 of 32 dogs with greater than 80 % tumor necrosis had local control , and only eight of 29 dogs with less than 79 % tumor necrosis had local control ( p = 0.0047 ) . there was no correlation between percent tumor necrosis and time to metastasis . 
relationship between histologic features , dna flow cytometry , and clinical behavior of squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx . flow cytometric analysis of dna content was done on 133 primary squamous cell carcinomas of the larynx . overall , 76 tumors ( 57.1 % ) were not diploid ( aneuploid or tetraploid ) . the dna index ( di ) was calculated and grouped into three levels . fifty-seven cases had a di in a range of 1.85 to 2.15 ( 44 diploid and 13 tetraploid ) . the cases were grouped in relation to ploidy , proliferative index , and the tumor-node-metastasis ( tnm ) system . every group was analyzed with respect to survival rate . ploidy was related to histocytologic grade . in well-differentiated tumors ( g1 ) survival rates at 48 months were 41.7 % in diploid cases and 27.7 % in nondiploid ones ( relative risk [ rr ] , 2.01 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 0.89 , 4.52 ) . in no cases that underwent surgery , survival rates at 48 months were , respectively , 81.8 % and 49.2 % ( rr , 5.07 ; 95 % ci , 0.76 , 33.93 ) . these results suggest that ploidy may be a new independent parameter of prognosis in squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx . this is useful in clinical practice because it allows the clinician to recognize those cases with poorer prognosis among the early tumors at a stage where other prognostic parameters are not yet available . 
combined surgical resection and iridium 192 implantation for locally advanced and recurrent desmoid tumors . thirty-eight histologically confirmed desmoid tumors were treated with conservative surgical resection and interstitial iridium 192 . patients included in this series constituted a poor prognostic group . seventy five percent ( 75 % ) had previous recurrences of their disease and 50 % had tumors 8 cm or greater in size . in addition , 16 % of the patients had gross residual disease after surgical excision and 79 % had positive or close margins of resection . with a median follow-up of 5.5 years , the 5-year actuarial in-field local control rate was 75 % and the overall local control rate was 66 % . four of the 12 local recurrences developed at the periphery of the implant volume and four patients failed at least 3 cm or more beyond the treated volume . after salvage therapy , the 5-year actuarial local control rate was 95 % . two patients required amputation for recurrent disease . thirty of 34 patients remain free of disease with an excellent functional result achieved . the authors conclude that surgical resection and postoperative interstitial iridium 192 is effective therapy for patients with desmoid tumors . despite the fact that most patients in this series had bulky , recurrent tumors , excellent long-term local control and limb function were achieved . 
differential alpha-fetoprotein lectin binding in hepatocellular carcinoma . diagnostic utility at low serum levels . the reactivity of serum alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) from 20 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) with immobilized lentil lectin was examined and found to be significantly greater ( 39 % + / - 18 % ) than that of the same protein from seven patients with chronic liver disease ( cld , 11.2 % + / - 3.3 % ) , seven with fulminant hepatic failure ( fhf , 10 % + / - 8.4 % ) , and eight normal pregnant women ( 4.1 % + / - 2.7 % ) . the reactivity with concanavalin a ( con a ) was also significantly greater for afp from hcc patients ( 44.5 % + / - 12.5 % ) than that from fhf patients ( 7.7 % + / - 4 % ) and normal pregnant women ( 5.3 % + / - 3.3 % ) , but not from patients with cld . the reactivity with lentil lectin permitted distinction between those with hcc ( 31.3 % + / - 14.1 % ) and those with uncomplicated cld ( 11.2 % + / - 8.4 % ) even when the absolute levels of serum afp were in the same range ( 80-400 ng/ml ) . evaluation of the alterations by lectin binding methodology may be useful in overcoming problems associated with distinguishing between malignant and cld , particularly at moderate serum afp elevations . 
occult cancer in patients with deep venous thrombosis . a systematic approach . the authors prospectively studied 113 consecutive patients with deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities to determine the most appropriate workup study for searching for a hidden cancer . after a careful physical examination , the following routine tests were performed : erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) , whole blood counts , biochemistry , carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels , chest radiograph , upper gastrointestinal endoscopy , abdominal ultrasound and computed tomography ( ct ) scan . if a malignant lesion was suspected , further appropriate studies were performed . after discharge , periodic follow-up was performed on all patients in the outpatient clinic . a malignant neoplasm was detected in 12 patients . of these 12 patients , six were asymptomatic with the exception of experiencing thrombophlebitis . cancer was found more commonly in patients with idiopathic deep vein thrombosis ( dvt ) ( 7 of 31 versus 5 of 82 patients with secondary dvt ; p = 0.012 ) , and in those patients with abnormal lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) levels ( 6 of 23 versus 6 of 90 ; p = 0.007 ) . abnormal cea levels allowed diagnosis of two cases of colonic cancer ( on colonoscopy ) . both ultrasound and ct scan of the abdomen showed two cases of urinary bladder carcinoma at a very early stage . furthermore , two cases of adenomatous polyps in colon were found , a condition considered by most authors to be a colorectal cancer precursor . in addition , there were five patients with large benign pelvic tumors , and two patients with absent inferior vena cava . the most striking finding was that some cases of cancer were at a very early stage . it was concluded that blood cell counts , ldh , cea , chest radiograph , and abdominal ultrasonography ( or ct scan ) should be routinely performed on all patients with deep venous thrombosis ( particularly those with idiopathic dvt ) . malignancy would not have been recognized in some patients if these tests had not been performed . 
a pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside , " spread-out " or " up-front , " in continuation therapy for childhood non-t , non-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia . a pediatric oncology group study . one hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-t - , non-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) were treated in a pediatric oncology group ( pog ) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) and cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) ( 1 g/m2 each ) were added to a " backbone " of standard continuation therapy . the dose and sequence of mtx/ara-c administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between mtx and ara-c . poor-risk patients ( n = 49 ) were assigned to " up-front " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission . standard-risk patients ( n = 57 ) were assigned to " spread-out " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment . toxicity after intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c , principally neutropenia and fever , was judged significant but manageable . unexpectedly , the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after " spread-out " therapy ( 38 % ) than after " up-front " therapy ( 6 % ) . at 4 years , the kaplan-meier estimate of event-free survival ( efs ) is 71 % ( + / - 7 % ) for standard-risk patients and 53 % ( + / - 8 % ) for poor-risk patients . the results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c in additional studies . 
myeloma of the head of the pancreas . a case report . a 45-year-old man was diagnosed with multiple myeloma , iga-kappa , in 1975 . thirteen years later he presented with obstructive jaundice . computed tomography ( ct ) showed a 6-cm mass in the head of the pancreas . needle aspiration showed myeloma . the jaundice resolved after treatment with radiotherapy . extraosseous involvement by myeloma is frequently found at autopsy but obstructive jaundice from myeloma of the head of the pancreas is quite rare . this atypical complication of myeloma may be related to the patient 's long survival . 
recurrent renal cell carcinoma arising in wilms ' tumor . a 19-month-old black girl had a radical nephrectomy for a wilms ' tumor that contained areas of epithelium indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma . she was treated with chemotherapy but subsequently had pulmonary metastases develop and massive abdominal recurrence . the recurrent tumor was histologically renal cell carcinoma with no identifiable wilms ' tumor elements . the child died with recurrent and metastatic tumor 13 months after nephrectomy . pathologic , immunoperoxidase , and flow cytometric studies of this unusual case are presented . 
acute respiratory failure and pulmonary thrombosis in leukemic children . acute respiratory failure ( arf ) in an 11-year-old child with pre-t acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) at the beginning of induction therapy was observed , connected with a pulmonary thrombosis and not with an infective origin . a systematic search for this pathology identified six other children with the same pulmonary complication , five of whom where in the early phase of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia ( anll ) and one in induction therapy for all in marrow relapse . at the beginning of the symptomatology , all children presented severe hypoxia and hypercapnia , with no or minimal chest radiograph abnormalities and no clear hemodynamic involvement . in all patients the arteriography and nuclear imaging studies confirmed the diagnosis . the causes of the thrombi could be connected with neoplastic emboli after cell lysis and/or with the vascular damage resulting from antiblastic therapy . intravenous urokinase treatment and respiratory assistance had been successfully carried out in six of seven children . 
pregnancy outcome in hematologic malignancies . by means of a mail questionnaire , information on a series of 56 pregnancies i in 48 women diagnosed with leukemia or lymphoma was collected from ten hospitals . seven patients conceived while receiving treatment for their neoplasms ; in 22 patients , the hematologic disease was diagnosed during pregnancy , and the remaining 27 patients became pregnant after completion of the antineoplastic treatment . when a comparison was made of the evolution of these pregnancies to that of pregnancies in a healthy population , no increase in the incidence of complications was observed : 64 % of the pregnancies went to term , 9 % resulted in spontaneous abortion , and 5 % resulted in premature births . the observed incidence of one major malformation in 56 pregnancies did not differ from the frequency of malformations in the offspring of healthy individuals . there were no fetal losses in six pregnancies in which conception occurred during the first year after chemotherapy . in spite of the inherent limitations derived from the design of this type of study and the type of subject analyzed , the data here support the hypothesis that the cytostatic treatment of hematologic malignancies , if deemed necessary , should not be postponed because of pregnancy . moreover , the authors agree with advice recommending that no antifolic or alkylating agents be used for prolonged periods and that radiotherapy be avoided , especially to those fields involving the pelvic area . 
the role of infection in the morbidity and mortality of patients with head and neck cancer undergoing multimodality therapy . cancer of the head and neck is a common cancer worldwide . the majority of patients present with locally advanced disease . recently a great deal of improvement has been made in multimodality therapy of this disease , warranting more careful consideration of factors affecting quality of life , disease course , and treatment . infection is clearly a factor . analysis of 662 hospital admissions of 169 head and neck cancer patients was performed . a definite infection was documented in 86 febrile episodes , pneumonia contributed to 40 % , bacteremia to 13 % , skin and soft tissue infection to 12 % , and tracheobronchitis to 10 % . among the evaluated risk factors , foreign bodies , specifically intravenous ( iv ) cannulae and gastrostomy tubes , race , performance status , alcohol intake , and nutritional status were statistically significant variables that predicted for or were associated with infection . infection contributed to 44 % of the deaths . 
intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil . an unusual complication of a hickman catheter . venous access devices ( vad ) have become an important tool in the management of patients with cancer . multiple complications can occur as a consequence of insertion of a vad . the authors report a case of a hickman catheter perforating the wall of the superior vena cava into the pericardium , resulting in accidental intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) . pericarditis and cardiac arrhythmias developed , but the patient did not have cardiac tamponade . she recovered from the event without apparent chronic cardiac dysfunction . 
ontogenetic features of audiogenic seizure susceptibility induced in immature rats by noise . although numerous models are currently used for systematic study of the mechanisms of epileptogenesis in mature brain , few animal models have been developed that allow similar explorations in the developing nervous system . one experimental model of epilepsy supports a premise that perinatal experience can lead to eventual seizure susceptibility , however . audiogenic seizure ( ags ) susceptibility can be induced during a critical developmental period in normal mice by auditory deprivation and therefore by cochlear trauma . we studied the developmental parameters that affect success of both induction and testing of ags-susceptibility in the rat . intense high-frequency noise exposure was used as the traumatizing agent . the wistar rat strain used is inherently seizure-resistant because in greater than 400 trials , untreated rats have never exhibited susceptibility at any age . although single prolonged exposures to high-intensity noise were administered to groups of rats at ages between postnatal days ( pnds ) 12 and 36 , pnd 14 was the age when exposure was most likely to result in eventual seizure susceptibility . furthermore , duration of initial exposure on pnd 14 determined the rate of susceptibility when measured 2 weeks later . accordingly , we noted that single noise exposures at an intensity of 125 db and ranging between 6 and 10 min in duration induced susceptibility in 100 % of rats tested on pnd 28 ; nonetheless , seizures among the rats exposed for 8 min were the most severe . typically , these seizures began as wild running attacks and were followed by tonic/clonic convulsions . 
postnatal epilepsy after eeg-confirmed neonatal seizures . we examined infants whose neonatal seizures were confirmed by randomly recorded ictal eeg tracings to determine the types and frequency of postnatal epilepsy ( pne ) -- unprovoked , recurring postnatal seizures . perinatal and postnatal clinical and eeg variables were also examined for their relevance to pne . forty infants with eeg-documented neonatal seizures of diverse etiologies were studied . the 27 survivors were followed for a mean of 31 months . pne developed in 56 % ( 15 of 27 ) of the cohort . the first seizure appeared at a mean-corrected age of 12.7 months and occurred despite ongoing antiepileptic medication in 60 % ( 9 of 15 ) of the group . seizures were classified as infantile spasms or minor motor ( 7 patients ) , complex partial ( 4 patients ) , or generalized tonic-clonic ( 4 patients ) . perinatal variables that significantly correlated with pne included the presence of coma but not the age at seizure onset , the estimated gestational age , or apgar scores . pne occurred in 68 % ( 13 of 19 ) of patients with moderately or markedly abnormal eeg backgrounds but in only 25 % ( 2 of 8 ) without ( p = 0.035 ) . there was a strong trend for pne to develop in patients with greater than 10 electrographic seizures per hour but in only 45 % ( 9 of 20 ) of infants with fewer seizures ( p = 0.058 ) . several postnatal variables were significantly related to pne -- the presence of cerebral palsy ( cp ) , mental retardation ( mr ) , cp with mr , and follow-up eegs . pne occurred in only 27 % ( 3 of 11 ) of patients without spikes or sharp waves on postnatal eegs performed at age 3 months but in 100 % ( 3 of 3 ) of patients with spikes or sharp waves ( p = 0.022 ) . 
photosensitive epilepsies and photoconvulsive responses in arabs . the occurrence of photosensitivity ( ps ) was examined in 327 arabs greater than or equal to 15 years of age with epilepsy by intermittent photic stimulation ( ips ) . a control group of 192 nonepileptic arabs greater than or equal to 15 years of age were also examined by ips . of the epileptic patients , 24 ( 7.3 % ) were photosensitive , an incidence comparable to that in whites in contradistinction to the reported rarity among african blacks . this finding indicates that environmental factors , particularly excessive sunshine , does not appear to influence the occurrence of ps among epileptic patients . the occurrence of ps among epileptic patients may depend more strongly on the presence of an epileptic syndrome known to have association with ps . 
antiepileptic drug intoxication : factors and their significance . a retrospective chart review ( 1979-1985 ) was performed to identify probable causes of intoxication with antiepileptic drugs ( aeds ) . we identified 141 patients meeting clinical and laboratory criteria for intoxication and 17 with clinical signs but with serum concentrations within the therapeutic range . the majority were epileptic patients ; almost half were treated with monotherapy , most with phenytoin ( pht ) . the causes of intoxication in the epileptic patients were iatrogenic ( 41 % ) , inappropriate dose self-adjustment ( 34 % ) , suicide attempt ( 18 % ) , inappropriate caretaker dose adjustment ( 9 % ) , accidental ingestion ( 8 % ) , unrecognized drug interaction ( 6 % ) , and association with intercurrent illness ( 2 % ) . twenty-two patients had more than one probable cause of intoxication . in nonepileptic patients the causes were suicide attempt ( 50 % ) , accidental ingestion ( 27 % ) , and iatrogenic ( 23 % ) . most patients had signs of ocularmotor and vestibulocerebellar dysfunction . rarely described manifestations of intoxication , such as seizures or choreoathethosis , were observed in a few patients . the average hospital stay was 6.9 days ; there was no mortality , and all patients recovered fully . we conclude that aed intoxication is a major but preventable cause of morbidity and that suicide attempts are an important and underrecognized contributor in both epileptic and non-epileptic patients . 
familial predisposition for herniation of a lumbar disc in patients who are less than twenty-one years old . the parents of sixty-three patients who were less than twenty-one years old and who had operatively confirmed herniation of a lumbar disc were interviewed regarding a history of sever back pain , sciatica , and herniated disc , to determine whether aggregation of herniation of a lumbar disc occurs in families of patients in this young age-group . the parents of sixty-three additional patients who had a non-spinal orthopaedic diagnosis ( control group ) were matched for age and sex with the study group and were given the same interview . of the patients who had herniation of a lumbar disc and were less than twenty-one years old , 32 per cent had a positive family history for that lesion compared with 7 per cent of the control group . the relative risk of development of herniation of a lumbar disc before the age of twenty-one years is estimated to be approximately five times greater in patients who have a positive family history . the results indicate a familial basis for herniation of a lumbar disc in patients who are less than twenty-one years old . 
use of autologous blood in total hip replacement . a comprehensive program . we evaluated the effectiveness of a comprehensive program for the use of autologous blood in reduction of the need for transfusion of homologous blood in total hip replacement in a prospective study of a consecutive series of patients . transfusion of homologous blood was minimized through transfusion of preoperatively deposited autologous blood , intraoperative and postoperative salvage of washed red blood cells , and use of the clinical condition of the patient as the sole criterion for transfusion of non-autologous blood , regardless of the hematocrit . the cases of 143 patients who had had 154 primary total hip replacements were studied . one hundred and forty-three procedures were done on patients who had not been prevented from donating blood for medical reasons , and 93 per cent of these 143 procedures were performed with the availability of one to five units of preoperatively deposited autologous blood . the patients predeposited an average of 2.6 units of blood for each procedure . ninety-two per cent of the procedures for which autologous blood had been predeposited were performed without transfusion of homologous blood . in the entire group of patients , almost 90 per cent of the transfused blood was autologous blood . intraoperative salvage of red blood cells was successful in 148 procedures , and salvage was continued in the recovery room for all of these patients . an average of 408 milliliters of red blood cells was saved and reinfused , and this was 28 per cent of the average total loss of blood ( 1435 milliliters ) for this series of procedures . 
acceleration of luteinizing hormone pulse frequency in functional hypothalamic amenorrhea by dopaminergic blockade . a constellation of neuroendocrine secretory aberrations , including reduced lh pulse frequency and prl concentrations , has been documented in women with functional hypothalamic amenorrhea ( fha ) . as pituitary function was preserved , these aberrations were attributed to an alteration in hypothalamic neuromodulation . to investigate the participation of the dopaminergic system in the genesis of the reduced lh pulse frequency and suppressed prl levels in fha , we studied six women with fha and six cyclic women in the early follicular phase by obtaining blood samples at 15-min intervals for 48 h during sequential 24-h infusions of saline and a dopamine receptor blocker , metoclopramide ( mcp ) . a hypothalamic vs. pituitary site of action was inferred from the pulsatility characteristics . mcp consistently elicited an increase in the lh pulse frequency in the women with fha [ 7.3 + / - 1.2 ( + / - se ) to 10.5 + / - 1.3 pulses/24 h ; p less than 0.005 ] . in contrast , the eumenorrheic women did not show a significant change in lh pulse frequency in response to mcp ( 15.2 + / - 1.0 to 14.3 + / - 0.9 pulses/24 h ) . while the prl concentrations were significantly lower in the fha group during the infusion of saline ( p less than 0.001 ) and mcp ( p less than 0.005 ) , the relative increases in prl during mcp were similar in both groups . the acceleration of lh pulse frequency by blockade of dopamine receptors implies that there is increased hypothalamic dopaminergic inhibition of gnrh pulse frequency in women with fha . 
coinheritance of two mild defects in low density lipoprotein receptor function produces severe hypercholesterolemia . a family is described in which the probands , twin girls , had severe hypercholesterolemia suggestive of familial hypercholesterolemia ( fh ) . the mother of the twins had normal plasma cholesterol levels , and the father had only moderate hypercholesterolemia . moreover , low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) binding studies in cultured fibroblasts and isolated lymphocytes in the parents failed to reveal significantly reduced ldl receptor activity that is typical of fh heterozygotes . turnover studies of ldl in the parents , however , revealed low fractional clearance rates ( fcrs ) for ldl . in cultured fibroblasts and isolated lymphocytes from the twin probands , binding of normal ldl was half normal or less . ldl turnover studies in the twins revealed a marked reduction in fcrs for ldl . when the twins were treated with lovastatin , however , fcrs for ldl increased significantly , suggesting enhancement of ldl receptor activity . this finding along with ldl binding studies in the cultured cells infer that the twins did not have homozygous fh . in addition , all family members tested negative for familial defective apolipoprotein-b-100 , and ldl isolated from the mother and twins showed normal binding to normal fibroblasts . the overall data suggest that the severe hypercholesterolemia in the offspring was due to inheritance of mild to moderate defects of ldl receptor function from both parents . although the latter defects could not be detected with certainty by in vitro tests in each parent , they were evident from ldl turnover tests . coinheritance of these defects apparently produced severe hypercholesterolemia in the offspring . 
a simple stress test for the evaluation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis during the first 6 months of life . in 33 normal infants , divided into 3 age groups ( less than 1 month , 1-3 months , and 3-6 months ) plasma cortisol was measured at 2230 , 2300 , and 2330 h. baseline plasma cortisol at 2230 h. was , as expected , low in all infants , with mean + / - sem values of 41 + / - 5 , 72 + / - 14 , and 97 + / - 17 nmol/l in each group , respectively . thirty and 60 min after the painful stimulus of the venipuncture , plasma cortisol increased significantly ( p less than 0.0005 ) , reaching a maximum increase up to 458 + / - 50 , 392 + / - 66 , and 455 + / - 97 nmol/l in each age group , respectively . we conclude that in these infants the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis was functionally intact and responded to the painful stimulus of the venipuncture by a significant increase in plasma cortisol . this test may be used as a simple procedure for the evaluation of the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis without the administration of pharmacological agents . its usefulness , however , should be validated with patients having a disorder of the system . 
osteomalacia in hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria : a correlative clinical-histomorphometric study . we characterized the bone disease of transilial biopsy specimens from children with hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria ( hhrh ) and genetically related asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects . all hhrh patients showed irregular mineralization fronts , markedly elevated osteoid surface and seam width , increased number of osteoid lamellae , and prolonged mineralization lag time . these findings are consistent with a mineralization defect and indicate unambiguously that the bone disease in hhrh is osteomalacia . the only abnormality seen in the asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects was slightly extended osteoid surface . parametric and nonparametric statistical analyses performed on a pooled sample of hhrh patients and asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects revealed a very high inverse correlation and a tight linear relationship between serum phosphorus and osteoid parameters . serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d , which is low in other forms of hereditary hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia , is elevated in hhrh and correlated positively with osteoid parameters and the mineralization lag time . serum alkaline phosphatase showed similar relationships . these results as well as the clinical , biochemical , and radiological remission of bone disease consequent to phosphate therapy strongly suggest that in hhrh 1 ) hypophosphatemia alone is sufficient to cause osteomalacia ; and 2 ) the elevation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d reflects the degree of the primary renal phosphate leak , but is not involved in the pathogenesis of the bone disease . 
potential role of igg avidity for diagnosing toxoplasmosis . sera from 20 cases of toxoplasmic lymphadenopathy were examined by an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay toxoplasma igg avidity ( elisa ) at two laboratories . the results obtained were largely in agreement and showed that sera from patients with acute infection had low avidity igg ( 30 % or less ) , whereas sera from patients with chronic infection had high avidity igg ( 40 % or more ) . it is suggested that this type of assay could have a useful complementary role in antenatal testing for toxoplasmosis . 
gastric epithelium in the duodenum : its association with helicobacter pylori and inflammation . duodenal biopsy specimens from 471 adults and 47 children were examined to determine the prevalence and distribution of gastric epithelium in the duodenal bulb in relation to age , gender , gastroduodenal inflammation , smoking , alcohol and consumption of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaid ) . gastric metaplasia was present in the anterior wall duodenal biopsy specimen in 31 % , was significantly less common in patients under 17 than in adults , and was more common in males than females . in sixty two adults who underwent multiple radial duodenal biopsy gastric metaplasia was randomly distributed around the duodenal circumference ; sixty three per cent of the patients with gastric metaplasia found on multiple biopsy were detected by just the anterior biopsy . gastric metaplasia was not obviously associated with alcohol , cigarette , or nsaid consumption . while the presence of gastric metaplasia was associated with adulthood , male sex , and low fasting gastric juice ph , its extent was associated with active duodenitis and helicobacter-associated gastritis . on logistic regression , gastric metaplasia in the duodenum and gastric helicobacter pylori were independent predictors of active duodenitis , but were not significantly associated with inactive duodenal inflammation . h pylori was observed in duodenal biopsy specimens from 32 patients , all with active duodenitis ; bacteria were present only on foci of gastric metaplasia , and were more likely to be seen when the metaplasia was extensive . it is proposed that inflammatory injury to the duodenal mucosa by h pylori may stimulate the development of further gastric metaplasia , and that the area of duodenum susceptible to colonisation with h pylori may therefore increase progressively until mucosal integrity is compromised and ulceration supervenes . 
helicobacter pylori in dyspeptic patients in kuwait . two hundred and four patients , mainly arabs , attending for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy at the gastroenterology clinic in mubarak al-kabeer hospital , kuwait , were examined for evidence of infection with helicobacter pylori and associated inflammation . biopsy specimens of antrum , body , and duodenum ; gastric juice ; and antral mucosal brushings were investigated by microbiological , cytological , and histopathological methods . clinical conditions diagnosed at endoscopy included gastritis , gastric ulcer , duodenitis and duodenal ulcer , but half the patients had endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosae . h pylori was detected by one or more of the procedures in at least one specimen from 197 ( 96.6 % ) of the patients . histological and cytological analysis showed equal sensitivity , but bacteriological culture was less reliable . the proportion of positive cases was high , compared with other reported series , which may have been accounted for by the variety of diagnostic techniques used in this study , the selected population ( all with gastrointestinal symptoms ) or genetic or environmental predisposing factors peculiar to the sample population . 
how stressful is retirement ? findings from the normative aging study . the stressfulness of retirement both as a transitional event experienced during the past year and as a life stage was investigated . transitional stress was assessed using a life events approach , and stage stress using a " hassles " approach . respondents were 1,516 male participants in the normative aging study , 45 % of whom were retired . among those retiring in the past year , respondents ' own and spouse 's retirement were rated the least stressful from a list of 31 possible events . only 30 % found retirement stressful . retirement hassles were also less frequently reported and were rated less stressful than the work hassles of men still in the labor force . the only consistent predictors of both transitional and stage retirement stress were poor health and family finances ; personality did not predict retirement stress . 
living arrangements and sources of caregiving . this study examined both the prevalence of different types of caregivers ( in terms of the relation to the individual ) , and whether living with someone is more important for caregiving than the relation of an elder to an individual . caregiving is examined in terms of iadl and emotional support . analyses are conducted using three separate random samples of those who are married and living with a spouse , those who live alone , and those who live with nonspousal others in winnipeg , manitoba , canada . the results confirm previous research pointing out that married people tend to receive assistance from their spouse . among nonmarrieds , children are named most frequently as the primary caregiver . after children , however , those who live alone tend to receive assistance from friends , and those who live with nonspousal others receive assistance from siblings . the data further document the importance of the structural characteristic of living with someone , rather than marital status , for assistance with iadl . 
social networks , health , and emotional well-being among the oldest old in london . a survey of the health and social circumstances of 662 people aged 85 and over , living at home in inner london , was conducted in 1987 . a primary aim was to analyze the structure of social support networks of the sample in relation to respondents ' emotional well-being and met and unmet needs for practical help . the conceptual and methodological framework that was applied to the study was derived from the theory of social networks . in confirmation of the common assumption that people aged 85 + are different from younger elderly people , as they are the " survivors , " high levels of social support and informal help were given to most respondents . although associations were found between social network variables and the provision of informal help , multifactorial analysis showed that health status explained more of the variation in emotional well-being . 
omeprazole in h2 receptor antagonist-resistant reflux esophagitis . we conducted a retrospective review of 25 patients with severe reflux esophagitis treated with omeprazole because of failure of h2 receptor antagonists to heal their esophagitis . prior to beginning omeprazole ( 40 mg/day ) , all patients were on h2 antagonists for at least 9 months and still had endoscopic evidence of longitudinal ( grade ii ) or circumferential ( grade iii ) distal esophageal ulceration . omeprazole therapy brought about complete endoscopic healing in 24 of 25 patients ( 96 % ) . twenty-three of 24 healed patients were then restarted on h2 antagonists as maintenance therapy . repeat endoscopy was performed if symptoms recurred . fourteen of 24 patients ( 58 % ) had recurrence of endoscopic esophagitis documented between 26 and 300 days from the time of starting maintenance therapy . two of these 14 patients opted for antireflux surgery , whereas the remaining 12 were once again given omeprazole , which again resulted in symptom resolution in all patients . these data suggest that most patients with h2 receptor antagonist-resistant ulcerative esophagitis can not be successfully maintained on h2 antagonists even after the ulcers have been healed with omeprazole . further studies are required to determine the role of omeprazole compared to other treatments in the long-term maintenance therapy of these patients . 
the site of recurrent duodenal ulcer . the aim of this retrospective study was to determine the site of recurrent duodenal ulcer in relation to the site of the index ulcer . one hundred and thirty-five patients who had recurrent duodenal ulcer after documented healing of an index ulcer were studied . the recurrent ulcer was more likely to occur in the anterior bulb if the index ulcer was anterior ( 35 of 58 = 60 % ) than if the index ulcer was not anterior ( 29 of 77 = 38 % , p less than 0.01 ) . however , the likelihood of a recurrent ulcer on the posterior wall of the bulb was not significantly different whether the index ulcer was posterior ( 11 of 36 = 31 % ) or not ( 22 of 99 = 22 % , p less than 0.24 ) . three of 20 patients ( 15 % ) who initially presented with bleeding bled again with their recurrent ulcers , compared with eight of 115 patients ( 7 % ) who first presented with dyspepsia only ( p = 0.39 ) . thirteen patients were assessed independently by two endoscopists to determine ulcer site . their assessments concurred for 12 ( 92 % ) . 
is gastric acid responsible for the pain in patients with essential dyspepsia ? the pathogenesis of symptoms in patients with essential dyspepsia is not known . since treatment with h2-receptor antagonists has provided symptomatic relief in some reports , we carried out the present study to investigate whether gastric acid is responsible for symptoms in these patients . fifty patients with essential dyspepsia and 25 healthy control subjects were studied . after an overnight fast , a nasogastric tube was passed and its tip positioned in the antrum under fluoroscopic control . normal saline or 0.1 m hydrochloric acid was infused in a randomized , double-blind fashion . eleven ( 22 % ) patients developed pain with acid infusion , but none with normal saline ( p less than 0.005 ) . in 10 of these 11 patients , pain recurred on rechallenge with acid infusion but was promptly relieved with infusion of 1 m sodium bicarbonate . none of the healthy controls developed pain on infusion of acid or saline . these observations suggest that acid has a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptoms in some patients with essential dyspepsia , although other factors may also be important . 
refractory parastomal ulcers : a multidisciplinary approach . chronic parastomal ulcers in patients with ileostomy or colostomy stomas are unusual . previous reports have implicated infections , fistulas , recurrent inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) , pyoderma gangrenosum , and trauma . over the past 8 years we have evaluated 10 cases of such refractory parastomal ulcers that occurred at a mean of 11 years after stomal surgery . eight patients had had an ileostomy for ibd while two had undergone colostomy for colon cancer . five patients with ibd were diagnosed as having pyoderma gangrenosum ulcerations . they required systemic treatment for a mean of 25 weeks to effect ulcer healing . the other five patients had either parastomal ulcers on the basis of dermatoses ( contact dermatitis , eczema , or bullous pemphigoid ) or contact ulcers due to face-plate pressure and parastomal dermatitis . these patients received topical treatment with healing of ulcers in a mean of 4 weeks . we conclude that parastomal ulcers occurring in patients without ibd or ibd patients without classic pyoderma gangrenosum require early dermatologic evaluation as they respond relatively quickly to appropriate local therapy . 
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella enteritidis in cirrhotic ascites . spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella is uncommon . we report three patients with ascites infected by salmonella . all three patients had advanced chronic liver disease , typically cirrhosis with portal hypertension . salmonella enteritidis grew in the ascite fluid culture of the three patients . there was no clinical or microbiological evidence of salmonella infection other than in the ascitic fluid . one patient died before antibiotic treatment was started , but the other two were treated with different combinations of antimicrobial drugs . one of them died on the fourteenth day of hospitalization , and the other survived . 
spinal epidural abscess : an unusual complication of a duodenal ulcer . a 50-year-old man had several months of progressively worse low-back pain associated with constitutional symptoms and a history of retroperitoneal tumor and bleeding duodenal ulcer . initial evaluation suggested a lumbar spine tumor , but myelography confirmed the presence of an epidural abscess . further evaluation revealed a duodeno-spinal fistula at the site of the previous duodenal ulcer , which proved to be the cause of the abscess . 
hypergastrinemia , gastric endocrine cell hyperplasia , and intractable diarrhea . a patient with pernicious anemia developed severe intractable diarrhea night and day . investigation revealed chronic atrophic gastritis and a markedly elevated level of serum gastrin . no obvious explantation for the diarrhea was found , but after antrectomy , the gastrin level returned to normal and the diarrhea subsided . possible mechanisms for an association between diarrhea and hypergastrinemia include colonic hypermotility secondary to release of acetylcholine and inhibition of fluid and electrolyte reabsorption within the small bowel . 
ileal duplication cyst causing massive bleeding in a child . intestinal duplication is a rare congenital anomaly ; nonetheless , it comprises more than half of all alimentary duplication disorders . our case report describes the hemorrhagic sequelae of this entity with surgical and pathologic findings . a review of anatomical classification , embryology , and natural history of duplication cyst follows ; differentiating characteristics of duplication cyst versus meckel 's diverticulum are outlined . intestinal duplication cyst should be considered in the differential diagnosis of gi bleeding , especially in children . 
coumadin-induced gastrointestinal hemorrhage associated with an ileal duplication . a 31-year-old man had recurrent gastrointestinal hemorrhage after aortic valve replacement and initiation of anticoagulation therapy with coumadin . radionuclide bleeding scan and subsequent contrast angiogram demonstrated a site of hemorrhage in the distal ileum , and at surgery a 1.8-cm spherical duplication was found . on histologic examination , the duplication was lined with normal ileal mucosa , and near the mouth of the duplication an inflammatory ulceration proved to be the site of hemorrhage . in a young patient with anticoagulation-associated gastrointestinal hemorrhage , alimentary tract duplication should be considered . 
the management of postoperative chylous ascites . a case report and literature review . chylous ascites remains rare as a complication of surgical intervention . although therapeutic manoeuvres to control chylous ascites have been developed over the past 20 years , its pathophysiology is poorly understood . conservative approaches involving dietary restriction of long-chain triglycerides and salt , together with multiple paracenteses , are still the therapies of choice . persistent chylous ascites may be treated surgically by ligation of leaking lymphatics or implantation of a peritoneovenous shunt once the lymphatic anatomy has been defined by preoperative investigations . we report a case of chylous ascites developing after laparotomy and duodenotomy for obscure gastrointestinal bleeding , which did not respond adequately to medical therapy and was successfully managed by the insertion of a peritoneovenous shunt . 
idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis in a man . idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis is a rare disease described in young adolescent women , characterized by fibrosis and adhesions of the peritoneum to loops of the small bowel . here we describe a 35-year-old man who underwent exploratory laparotomy for repeated small bowel obstruction . only partial resection of the terminal ileum was possible because of adhesions ; recurrent abdominal infections and leakage from anastomosis required further resection , which ultimately resulted in short bowel syndrome and malabsorption . the clinical and pathological findings were characteristic for idiopathic sclerosing peritonitis . we review the relevant literature , to confirm , to the best of our knowledge , that this is the first report of a male patient who has developed this rare disease . 
uses and complications of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty . uvulopalatopharygoplasty has become widely performed for chronic snoring and for cases of obstructive sleep apnoea . unfortunately this operation is not without morbidity and complications . we report our results of a prospective series of 50 patients undergoing uvulopalatopharyngoplasty with a minimum follow-up of one year . snoring was abolished in 18 ( 36 per cent ) and substantially reduced in the remainder . obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome , identified in 11 patients pre-operatively , was reduced in severity in all but three . troublesome complications were seen in 18 ( 36 per cent ) patients , namely intermittent velopharyngeal incompetence in five ( 10 per cent ) , pharyngeal dryness in 11 ( 22 per cent ) and loss of taste in five ( 10 per cent ) . one patient had nasopharyngeal stenosis requiring correction . a cautious approach to this operation is required with rigorous case selection . the importance of full assessment and careful follow-up should not be underestimated . 
vertical partial laryngectomy on demand . the author proposes the term ' vertical partial laryngectomy on demand ' for all modifications of vertical laryngectomies ( frontal , frontolateral , vertical and hemilaryngectomy ) . this term includes two conditions : the first is complete oncological removal of the tumour ( proven by histological examination and with the use of magnification or the operating microscope during the operation ) ; secondly , reconstruction of the laryngeal defect by various procedures . the author uses the sternohyoid fascia in vertical and frontolateral partial laryngectomies . from 120 operated cases , a five-year survival rate of 81 per cent was achieved . the fascia showed resistance to post-operative complications and irradiation . 
ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis associated with sensorineural deafness sensorineural deafness is rarely associated with both ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis . a patient is described in whom acute sensorineural deafness occurred in association with episcleritis , ulcerative colitis and clinical features suggesting giant cell arteritis . 
early inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone after trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy . the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone ( siadh ) is a rare but life-threatening complication of trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy . it has previously only been described as a late phenomenon . we report an early presentation within the first week . the pathophysiology , clinical features and treatment are discussed . 
cartilaginous metaplasia of the epiglottis . metaplastic elastic cartilaginous tissue has been described in the vocal cord , vestibular fold and ventricle of the larynx . this report documents a case in which cartilaginous metaplasia developed in the soft tissue of the epiglottis following an episode of epiglottitis . 
fourth branchial pouch anomaly . we present an extremely rare case of fourth branchial fistula in a 23-year-old male . the characteristic clinical feature was a recurrent left lower neck abscess which did not respond to appropriate medical and surgical therapy . radiography and a computed tomographic scan with contrast material revealed a fistula running from the apex of the left pyriform sinus ( internal opening ) to the left lower neck abscess . the fistula tract was excised surgically . histological examination of the excised fistula revealed a squamous epithelial lining and subepithelial lymphoid tissue . this pyriform sinus fistula is thought to be of fourth pharyngeal pouch origin , because of its surgical aspects and the histological findings of the excised fistula . 
the frequency , causes and timing of death within 30 days of a first stroke : the oxfordshire community stroke project . in a prospective , community-based study of 675 consecutive patients with a first-ever stroke , of whom over 90 % had computed tomography ( ct ) and/or necropsy examinations , 129 deaths occurred within 30 days of the onset of symptoms , a case fatality rate ( cfr ) of 19 % . the 30 day cfr for patients with cerebral infarction was 10 % ( 57 of 545 , for primary intracerebral haemorrhage 52 % ( 34 of 66 ) , for subarachnoid haemorrhage 45 % ( 15 of 33 ) and for those of uncertain pathological type 74 % ( 23 of 31 ) . the cfr for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 33 % compared with 17 % for those who had been independent pre-stroke . the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was not significantly greater ( 1.8 , 95 % confidence interval 0 to 4.3 ) . there was a significant trend for cfr to increase with age ( chi square for trend = 4.0 , p less than 0.05 ) . this relationship was found in those patients who had been functionally independent prestroke ( chi square for trend = 7.9 , p less than 0.005 ) but not in those who had been dependent pre-stroke ( chi square for trend = 0.5 , ns ) . the pattern of increasing cfr with increasing age amongst those who had been independent prestroke was seen particularly in patients with cerebral infarction ( chi square for trend = 8.6 , p less than 0.005 ) . the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients with cerebral infarction who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 2.2 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.2 to 4.1 ) . fifty three percent of all deaths within 30 days of stroke were due to the direct neurological sequelae of the stroke . 
temporal movement control in patients with parkinson 's disease . patients with parkinson 's disease ( pd ) have been reported to be unable to modify their movement velocity to adapt to changing environmental demands . for example , when movement amplitude is varied , pd patients usually exhibit a nearly constant peak velocity , whereas elderly subjects show an increase of their peak velocity with increased amplitude . the experiment examined the ability of pd patients to vary the duration of their movement ( four different percentages of their maximum ) under conditions where temporal , but not spatial , control was emphasised . pd patients had longer movement times than control subjects , but were able to vary the duration of their movement with comparable temporal accuracy to that of elderly subjects . for both groups , the agonist emg activity increased with decreased movement duration . for the pd patients , the number of agonist bursts increased with increased movement duration . 
visual evoked potential monitoring of optic nerve function during surgery . a study was made with intra-operative flash -- visual evoked potentials ( vep ) monitored using a fibre-optic/contact lens photo stimulator in 57 patients undergoing intra-orbital surgical procedures with potential risk to the optic nerve . the veps recorded under enflurane and nitrous oxide anaesthesia did not differ significantly in latency or amplitude from the pre-operative recordings . transient abolition of the vep was seen under many circumstances and did not correlate with the outcome of surgery , but absence of a previously normal vep for more than four minutes during surgical manipulation within the orbit did show a correlation with post operative impairment of vision . the technique provides early warning to the surgeon of threats to the integrity of the optic nerve . 
determination of ventricular fluid outflow resistance in patients with ventriculomegaly . resorption of the ventricular fluid was studied by measuring ventricular fluid outflow resistance during steady state 1.5 and 5.0 ml/min infusions in 26 patients with substantial enlargement of the supratentorial ventricular system . this test may avoid unnecessary use of shunts , but a shunt could be introduced during the same procedure . 
neuropsychological profile linked to low dopamine : in alzheimer 's disease , major depression , and parkinson 's disease . a distinct pattern of neuropsychological deficits was associated with low homovanillic acid ( hva ) in the cerebrospinal fluid of 21 patients with : alzheimer 's disease ( 9 ) , parkinson 's disease ( 8 ) and major depressive disorders ( 4 ) . regardless of clinical diagnosis , patients with low hva were slower on a test of efficiency of processing timed information , and showed greater benefit from semantic structure on a verbal fluency task than patients with high hva . however , low hva subjects were not significantly impaired on confrontation naming ( boston naming test ) . across three diagnostic groups , patients with lower hva also tended to have more extrapyramidal motor signs and were significantly more depressed . these results demonstrate a significant relationship between specific neuro-behavioural deficits and dopaminergic activity which cuts across traditional diagnostic categories . 
a case of amnesia after excision of the septum pellucidum . tumours of the septum pellucidum ( sp ) are rare and seldom associated with memory impairment either before or after operation . a patient is described who developed amnesia after transcallosal excision of a tumour of the sp . radiology did not show any major lesion of the brain areas traditionally associated with amnesia . because septal nuclei could have been damaged during surgery their possible role in memory functions is discussed . 
total-hip arthroplasty : periprosthetic indium-111-labeled leukocyte activity and complementary technetium-99m-sulfur colloid imaging in suspected infection indium-111-labeled leukocyte images of 92 cemented total-hip arthroplasties were correlated with final diagnoses . prostheses were divided into four zones : head ( including acetabulum ) , trochanter , shaft , and tip . the presence ( or absence ) and intensity of activity in each zone was noted , and compared to the corresponding contralateral zone . though present in all 23 infected arthroplasties , periprosthetic activity was also present in 77 % of uninfected arthroplasties , and was greater than the contralateral zone 51 % of the time . when analyzed by zone , head zone activity was the best criterion for infection ( 87 % sensitivity , 94 % specificity , 92 % accuracy ) . fifty of the arthroplasties were studied with combined labeled leukocyte/sulfur colloid imaging . using incongruence of images as the criterion for infection , the sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy of the study were 100 % , 97 % , and 98 % , respectively . while variable periprosthetic activity makes labeled leukocyte imaging alone unreliable for diagnosing hip arthroplasty infection , the addition of sulfur colloid imaging results in a highly accurate diagnostic procedure . 
large telangiectatic focal nodular hyperplasia presenting with normal radionuclide studies : case report . a 9 cm-lesion of telangiectatic focal nodular hyperplasia was incidentally identified in a 31-yr-old female . despite a typical appearance by x-ray computed tomography and ultrasonography , scintigraphy with technetium-99m - ( 99mtc ) colloid , 99mtc-diethyliminodiacetic acid , and 99mtc-labeled red cells failed to demonstrate any abnormalities . these findings are felt to reflect the relative lack of architectural disruption that histologically characterizes this particular lesion . the present report described the imaging characteristics of the telangiectatic form of focal nodular hyperplasia . 
impact of echocardiography on the management of patients with mitral valve prolapse objective : to determine whether echocardiography affects the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients suspected of having mitral valve prolapse ( mvp ) . design : retrospective review of echocardiograms and clinical records . setting : military tertiary care hospital . patients : 127 patients with clinically suspected mvp ( 105 ) or incidentally discovered mvp ( 22 ) . main results : beta blockers were used more often in patients with suspected mvp and positive echocardiograms ( 45 % ) than in patients with normal echocardiograms ( 13 % , p less than 0.001 ) . bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis was recommended more often in patients with suspected mvp and positive echocardiograms ( 65 % ) than in patients with normal echocardiograms ( 11 % , p less than 0.001 ) . presence or absence of a murmur did not influence the decision to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis . patients in whom mvp was incidentally discovered were unlikely to receive either beta blockers or the recommendation for bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis . conclusions : the results of echocardiography affect the decisions to use beta blockers or to recommend bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis in patients with suspected mvp . 
asymmetric growth of the lateral cerebral ventricle in infants with posthemorrhagic ventricular dilation . lateral cerebral ventricular volume in 36 preterm infants with or without an intraventricular hemorrhage , and with or without posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus , was measured longitudinally and compared with the ventricular index measurements of the same ventricles . a poor correlation was found ( r2 = 0.67 ) . to determine a reason for this poor relationship , we analyzed the volumes of the regions of the ventricles by a segmental volume analysis . the occipital region of the lateral cerebral ventricle enlarged at a much faster rate ( 1.904 + / - 0.477 ml/day ) than either the anterior region ( 0.546 + / - 0.253 ml/day ; p less than 0.01 ) or the middle region ( -0.209 + / - 0.334 ml/day ; p less than 0.01 ) in infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus . the rate of growth of the middle region of the lateral cerebral ventricles was the same for all infants . linear indexes , such as the ventricular index and the lateral ventricular ratio , do not allow for accurate serial estimates of ventricular size in posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus because of asymmetric growth of the lateral cerebral ventricle . we conclude that sequential volume measurements are more useful than ventricular index measurements to follow ventricular size sequentially in infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus . 
management of infants at risk for occult bacteremia : a decision analysis . because febrile infants with no obvious source of bacterial infection may have bacteremia , and because bacteremia is difficult to diagnose on clinical grounds , we used decision analysis to evaluate whether such infants should be treated with antibiotics , tested further , or sent home . using a simple decision tree , we found that the decision to give empiric antibiotic treatment is the decision of choice . the difference in quality-adjusted life expectancy between the " best " and " worst " decisions was only 11 days . however , this difference translated to prevention of death or permanent disability in 60 cases per 100,000 febrile children . further , empiric treatment remained the best management alternative unless the probability of bacteremia was less than 1.4 % ( less than any published prevalence ) , or the efficacy of treatment was less than 21 % . our analysis demonstrated that a test with far greater sensitivity than leukocyte count or other tests currently in use is needed to justify testing rather than treating empirically . further , an enormous patient population would be needed to find a difference of both clinical and statistical significance between treated and untreated patients in a controlled trial . in the absence of such trials , we recommend blood culture and empiric antibiotic treatment of all infants at risk for occult bacteremia . 
primary intramedullary nailing of open femoral shaft fractures . the cases of 60 patients with 63 open femoral fractures treated by primary reamed intramedullary nailing were retrospectively reviewed . twenty-two were classified as type i open fractures , 26 as type ii and 15 as type iii open fractures by gustilo 's classification . all fractures were treated by wound debridement followed by immediate reamed intramedullary nailing . there were five early soft-tissue infections and three late deep infections . of the late infections , only one was osteomyelitis ( 1.6 % ) . there were three nonunions and seven malunions . all of the complications were dealt with effectively by standard methods . we concluded that primary reamed intramedullary nailing is an effective alternative for the treatment of type i and ii open femur fractures and for type iii open femur fractures associated with multiple trauma . 
post-traumatic bile fistulae . bile leakage after liver injury has been reported to be a complication associated with significant mortality . in a prospective study of 306 patients with liver injuries 13 ( 4 % ) developed a bile leak . there appear to be two groups of patients , those with a major bile duct injury ( three patients ) and those with a more peripheral injury ( ten patients ) . bile leaks may present either as bile peritonitis ( six patients ) or as a bile leak through a drain site ( seven patients ) . all but one bile leak closed spontaneously at a median of 33 days ( range , 3-110 days ) . there was no mortality but patients incurred a median of four complications each ( range , 1-5 ) . this may reflect the severity of the initial injury rather than the bile leak . respiratory failure and/or infection and sepsis were the most common complications whilst abnormalities of liver function , although common , were seldom of clinical significance . 
a prospective evaluation of the ao/asif universal femoral nail in the treatment of traumatic and reconstructive problems of the femur . beginning in october 1986 , we prospectively evaluated the ao/asif universal femoral nail in the treatment of traumatic ( 89 nails ) and reconstructive ( 11 nails ) problems of the femur . for treatment of isolated femoral fractures , the mean time of patient positioning and nail insertion was 2.4 hours with a mean blood loss of 389 ml . seventy-eight per cent of the patients were followed for a minimum of 12 months . there were no infections , one case of nail failure , two cases of screw fracture , and three nonunions . sixteen nails have been uneventfully removed . the ao/asif femoral nail provides results comparable to other intramedullary interlocking devices . 
intrahepatic arterioportal fistula after blunt hepatic trauma : case reports . intrahepatic arterioportal fistula ( apf ) was found in five out of 65 consecutive patients following blunt hepatic trauma . in four patients the fistula was located peripherally and the blood flow was small . these fistulas closed spontaneously within 3 months . however , a centrally located fistula with early visualization of the trunk of the portal vein persisted in one patient and necessitated transcatheter embolization . the apf in this patient caused portal dilatation which was detectable by ct scan . we conclude that spontaneous closure can be expected when an apf is located peripherally and the shunt flow is small , while centrally located apf with large flow require active treatment , preferably by transcatheter embolization . an apf detectable by ct scan suggests the need of intervention . 
emergency center ultrasonography in the evaluation of hemoperitoneum : a prospective study . the reliability of ultrasonographic detection ( us ) of hemoperitoneum in blunt abdominal trauma was evaluated in a prospective study of 72 patients . independent of the examiner , sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy were , respectively , 86.7 % , 100 % , and 97.2 % . laparotomy was indicated in 76.9 % of us hemoperitoneum-positive cases . no negative laparotomies were performed in this study group . if hemoperitoneum is revealed in us and vital signs are unstable , we think laparotomy is indicated . we believe that us in an emergency center is a quick , safe screening method in the evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma . us might take over a great part of the role of diagnostic peritoneal lavage . 
locked intramedullary nailing of femoral shaft fractures . one hundred twenty-three femoral shaft fractures were treated with grosse-kempf slotted , locked nails and followed for a median 20 ( range , 12-60 ) months . there were eight intraoperative and 11 postoperative complications , among them two superficial and two deep infections . most of the intraoperative complications and some postoperatively lost reductions could have been prevented by a better operative technique and judgment of stability . seventy-eight results were graded as excellent , 24 as good , 19 as fair , and two as poor ( one 9-cm shortening and one 40 degrees external malrotation ) . all fractures united without further procedures during the first year . 
impairment of specific host defense mechanisms in patients with chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis . we studied both in vivo and in vitro specific host defense mechanisms in patients suffering from chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis ( n = 26 ) . the cell-mediated immunity in vivo was impaired as indicated by the reduced reactivity in the delayed type hypersensitivity skin test . the concanavalin a or phytohemagglutinin-induced t-cell proliferation in vitro was markedly decreased in comparison to healthy donors . in contrast , b-cell proliferation stimulated by staphylococcus aureus cowan i was not altered . while the absolute lymphocyte counts and the percentage of t , b , and o cells were within the normal range , nine out of the 26 patients showed a significantly diminished ratio of cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . humoral immunity in the patients was less affected as assessed by the unchanged serum levels of immunoglobulins ( ig ) . however , the t-cell dependent polyclonal ig synthesis after in vitro stimulation with pokeweed mitogen was suppressed . our results provide evidence that cell-mediated immune functions are predominantly impaired in patients with post-traumatic osteomyelitis which may contribute to the persistence of the localized bone infection . 
risk factors for multiorgan failure : a case-control study . the aim of this study was to identify factors associated with multiple organ failure ( mof ) , and assess possible interactions between the risk factors identified as such . we studied 40 mof cases and 120 controls , out of all the surgery and trauma patients who needed intensive care at our institution in a 24-month period . the univariate analyses showed that age , hypovolemic shock , massive volume administration ( mva ) , sepsis , and time of evolution before arriving to the hospital ( te ) were significantly associated with mof . logistic regression analysis showed that neither age nor mva were independently associated with mof after adjusting for all of the other variables . interactions seemed to be present between age , sepsis , and shock . we conclude that in our surgery and trauma icu adult patient population , hypovolemic shock , sepsis , and te are independent risk factors for mof . the importance of the association between shock and sepsis is discussed , as well as the possible relevance of te as a risk factor . 
improvement of septic syndrome after administration of recombinant human growth hormone ( rhgh ) ? twenty patients with generalized sepsis were studied prospectively to evaluate the effects of recombinant human growth hormone ( rhgh ) administration . five patients had developed sepsis after major abdominal surgery , 15 patients after multiple trauma with head injury ( hti-iss 38 + / - 2 and glasgow coma scale 4 + / - 1 ) . the urea production rate ( upr ) could be significantly reduced by the intramuscular administration of 1.5 iu of rhgh/kg bodyweight ( bw ) per day ( upr day : 5 , 62 + / - 6.7 gm/d vs. upr day : 10 , 42.6 + / - 5.9 gm/d ) . the catabolic index of bistrian ( bi ) was significantly lower after rhgh therapy on day 10 compared to day 5 . igf-1 increased significantly after the administration of rhgh . the nitrogen balance , however , did not become positive , despite the administration of rhgh . the changes in sepsis were estimated by the scoring system according to elebute and stoner on days 3 , 5 , 7 , 10 , and 13 . in those patients who were available for post-treatment evaluation the parameters had returned to baseline values after the withdrawal of rhgh . results indicate that this therapy might ameliorate the nitrogen intake , but has no influence on the course of sepsis . compared to previously published results in nonseptic patients , the somatomedin inhibitors as well as the split-products of the complement system and the metabolites of arachidonic acid may have been responsible for this weak effect of rhgh and igf-1 in septicemia . 
techniques of emergency ventilation : a model to evaluate tidal volume , airway pressure , and gastric insufflation . we designed a model to evaluate the effectiveness of various noninvasive methods of ventilation . the upper airway was simulated with the head of a resusci-annie which was attached to a test lung . the esophagus and stomach were simulated with a penrose drain connected to a rolling seal spirometer via a peep valve . fifteen paramedic volunteers ventilated the model utilizing mouth-to-mouth , mouth-to-mask , bag-valve-mask , or portable field ventilator ( impact or harv ) . recording of tidal volume , gastric volume , and proximal and distal airway pressure was completed at three different levels of compliance . at normal compliance , all methods except the harv met or exceeded american heart association standards . as compliance decreased , tidal volume fell and gastric insufflation increased . at a compliance of 0.02 l/cm h2o all methods failed to meet aha standards and gastric insufflation volume equalled delivered tidal volumes for mouth-to-mouth and mouth-to-mask techniques . mouth-to-mouth and mouth-to-mask techniques generated the largest tidal volumes but also created the largest volume of gastric insufflation . the impact ventilator provided an acceptable tidal volume with minimal gastric insufflation . our results suggest that mouth-to-mask ventilation with supplemental oxygen enrichment is the most efficient technique for non-invasive airway management . 
renal function in obstructive jaundice in man : cholangiocarcinoma model . renal function with respect to water clearance and renal hemodynamics was studied in 15 patients with obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma . the results were compared with those of the control normal subjects . there was no change in renal function in the patients with mild to moderate jaundice , with total serum bilirubin from 8.0 to 15.1 mg/dl . increased urinary sodium excretion and decreased free water and negative water clearances were observed in the patients with severe jaundice with total serum bilirubin from 27.0 to 40.4 mg/dl and normal serum albumin . renal blood flow was normal , but creatinine clearance was decreased . in severely jaundiced patients with serum bilirubin from 30.5 to 40.1 mg/dl and hypoalbuminemia urinary sodium excretion , free water clearance , negative water clearance , renal blood flow and creatinine clearance were decreased . there was salt and water retention in this group . the findings suggest that in severe jaundice there is inhibition of sodium chloride reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of henle 's loop . adh and increased hydraulic conductivity of the collecting tubules possibly contribute to decreased free water clearance . in severely jaundiced patients with hypoalbuminemia this salt losing effect is converted to salt retention by increased proximal tubular reabsorption of sodium . 
dysgerminoma of the ovary : review of 27 cases . twenty-seven patients with pure dysgerminoma were seen at the tata memorial hospital , bombay , between january 1980 and december 1984 . of the 10 patients in stage i , 2 patients underwent a unilateral salpingoophorectomy ( uso ) and were kept under observation without any adjuvant therapy , while the remaining patients received adjuvant treatment following surgery . all of the 6 patients in stage ii and 4 of 7 in stage iii had total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy ( tahbso ) followed by postoperative radiotherapy . one patient presented in stage iv and 3 patients presented with recurrence after previous definitive treatment undertaken at other institutions . the disease free , as well as the overall survival , at 108 months , for the 24 cases primarily treated at this institution , is 81 % and 88 % respectively , and , for patients in stages i and ii , 100 % ( kaplan-meier estimation ) . the need for controlled clinical trials to devise optimal therapy in the early clinical stages and use of chemotherapy for advanced stages of this highly curable entity are stressed . 
long-term follow-up comparing subclavian flap angioplasty to resection with modified oblique end-to-end anastomosis the definitive surgical procedure for correction of aortic coarctation remains controversial . therefore , we retrospectively reviewed a total of 56 children under 4 years of age with coarctation repair between 1977 and 1986 . thirty-four had the subclavian flap angioplasty technique and 22 had resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis . the group was further subdivided to include only the 23 infants less than 3 months of age -- eight infants with resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis ( less than or equal to 3ete ) and 15 infants with subclavian flap angioplasty ( greater than or equal to 3sfa ) . the remaining 33 patients older than 3 months of age were divided into 14 patients with resection and oblique end-to-end anastomosis ( greater than 3ete ) and 19 patients with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique ( greater than 3sfa ) . the overall mortality was not significantly different between techniques . postoperative hypertension was significantly more prevalent with end-to-end anastomosis than with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique ( p less than 0.01 ) . seven patients had recurrent coarctation . the 6-year actuarial freedom from recoarctation was 93 % + / - 6 % in the less than or equal to 3sfa group compared with 53 % + / - 20 % in the less than or equal to 3ete group ( p less than 0.02 ) , but there was no significant difference in those children operated on at a later age regarding the type of coarctation repair . therefore , we recommend subclavian flap angioplasty in patients less than 3 months of age . in those older than 3 months either procedure is safe and the risk of recoarctation is similar . 
unusual malignant neoplasms of the esophagus . oat cell carcinoma , melanoma , and sarcoma . primary noncarcinomatous malignant neoplasms of the esophagus are uncommon and data concerning treatment and results are sparse . to evaluate the results of therapy in this group , we reviewed the records of 32 patients with primary esophageal malignant tumors of unusual histologic type . thirteen patients ( 41 % ) had sarcoma , eight ( 25 % ) melanoma , and 11 ( 34 % ) had oat cell carcinoma . dysphagia was present in 78 % ( 25/32 ) of the patients for a median of 13 weeks before diagnosis . location of the esophageal primary tumor was upper third in four patients ( 12 % ) , middle third in 12 ( 38 % ) , and lower third in 16 ( 50 % ) . treatment consisted of esophagectomy in 10 of 13 patients with sarcoma ( 77 % ) , seven of eight with melanoma ( 88 % ) , and three of 11 with oat cell carcinoma ( 27 % ) . patients not undergoing resection received chemotherapy or radiation therapy , or both . the 3 - and 5-year survival rates were 46 % and 23 % for sarcoma ( median 20 months ) , 13 % and 0 % for melanoma ( median 5 months ) , and 0 % and 0 % for oat cell carcinoma ( median 5 months ) , respectively . distant disease was the initial form of recurrence in 73 % ( 11/15 ) of patients undergoing curative therapy . surgical resection appears indicated for localized primary esophageal sarcoma . optimum treatment of primary esophageal melanoma is less clear , but surgical resection may be of benefit in selected patients . esophageal oat cell carcinoma is a systemic disease necessitating systemic therapy with local therapy reserved for palliation of dysphagia . 
coronary bypass surgery : is the operation different today ? patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting have undergone an evolution in recent years . to document this change , we analyzed two groups of patients in 1981 ( n = 1586 ) and 1987 ( n = 1513 ) to document preoperative and postoperative variables important in determining immediate morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary bypass . between 1981 and 1987 , patients were found to be older ( greater than or equal to 70 years , 8.7 % versus 21.8 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , more often diabetic ( 15 % versus 24 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , have a greater prevalence of triple vessel disease ( 14.5 % versus 46.1 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , and have more left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction 0.60 + / - 14 versus 0.54 + / - 13 , p less than 0.0001 ) . to facilitate analysis and because of overlap between subgroups , we subdivided patients into three subgroups for statistical comparison of the years 1981 and 1987 : subgroup i , no prior procedure ( n = 1546 in 1981 and 1396 in 1987 ) ; subgroup ii , optimal group ( n = 503 in 1981 and 292 in 1987 , and defined as no prior procedure , ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 and age less than 65 years ) ; subgroup iii , patients having reoperations ( n = 40 in 1981 and 117 in 1987 ) . internal mammary artery grafting was infrequently used in 1981 but was used in 72.1 % in 1987 . major postoperative morbidity between the 2 years for the total population increased significantly : need for intraaortic balloon pumping , 1.4 % versus 4.7 % , p less than 0.0001 ; myocardial infarction 3.5 % versus 5.5 % , p less than 0.008 ; stroke , 1.4 % versus 2.8 % , p less than 0.008 ; and wound infection , 1.0 % versus 3.0 % , p less than 0.001 . wound infection ( all types ) in 1987 was increased sevenfold in patients having a perioperative myocardial infarction ( 0.7 % versus 5 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . for young patients with good left ventricular function ( subgroup ii ) , there was no increase in these morbid events between 1981 and 1987 . hospital mortality in the total population increased significantly between 1981 and 1987 from 1.2 % to 3.1 % ( p less than 0.0002 ) , respectively . it was lowest for the patients in optimal condition ( subgroup ii ) in both years , 0.8 % versus 1.1 % , and highest for reoperative patients , 5.3 % versus 4.3 % . in 1981 , 58 % of patients ( 503/870 ) were in the optimal group compared with 35 % ( 292/828 ) in 1987 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the last six years have seen a progressive trend in surgically treating older , sicker patients who have more complex disease , with a significant reduction in the best candidate group . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
role of dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the evaluation of coronary reserve after coronary artery bypass grafting . the object of this study was to assess the usefulness of the dipyridamole-echocardiography test in the early evaluation of coronary artery bypass grafting , when the use of an exercise stress test is precluded . we studied 39 consecutive patients ( 37 men and two women , mean age 57.3 years ) referred to our institute for elective coronary artery bypass . five patients had single , 12 patients double , 20 patients triple vessel disease , and two had left main stem disease . nineteen left internal mammary artery grafts , 20 sequential grafts , and 39 single vein grafts were performed . all the patients were subjected to the test before ( time range 1 to 3 days ) and after ( time range 6 to 10 days ) the operation in the absence of therapy . dipyridamole was administered intravenously 0.56 mg/kg over 4 minutes ( low dose ) ; if no effect was apparent , an additional 0.28 mg/kg over 2 minutes ( high dose ) was given . during the test , blood pressure and a twelve-lead electrocardiogram were monitored . an arbitrary wall motion score was derived by dividing the left ventricle into six regions and grading from 0 to 3-normokinetic , hypokinetic , akinetic , and dyskinetic zones . preoperatively the test was positive in 38 patients as evidenced by wall motion abnormalities ( 36 patients had electrocardiographic changes ) and in one patient by electrocardiographic changes and chest pain ; 22 tests were positive after the low dose and 17 after the high dose . angina was present in 33 patients . mean wall motion score was 1.64 per patient in the basal condition and 4.03 per patient after the test ( p less than 0.001 ) . after coronary bypass in three patients the test was positive at the same dosage that was used preoperatively , as shown by wall motion abnormalities ( in two patients by electrocardiographic changes , as well ) . four patients had symptoms . furthermore , at 6 months ' follow-up , a treadmill stress test performed in these three patients was positive for ischemia and angina . the wall motion score was 1.25 per patient in the basal condition and 1.53 per patient after the test ( no significant difference ) . when the preoperative wall motion score obtained after dipyridamole echocardiography was compared with the postoperative score , a statistically significant difference was seen : 4.03 per patient versus 1.53 per patient ( p less than 001 ) . in eight patients we observed an improvement of basal myocardial contractility after the operation , which indicates the reversibility of wall motion abnormalities observed before coronary bypass . in conclusion our data show that the dipyridamole-echocardiography test is a suitable method for the early assessment of bypass grafting when other methods , exercise dependent , are not indicated . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
does use of gastroepiploic artery graft increase surgical risk ? seventy patients in whom the gastroepiploic artery was used for coronary artery bypass grafting were compared with 70 patients in whom the gastroepiploic artery was not used . mean age was 56.8 years in the group in which this artery was used and 61.8 years in the group in which it was not ( p less than 0.001 ) . all other preoperative characteristics including number of women , extent of coronary artery disease , previous myocardial infarction , unstable angina , and preoperative left ventricular function were not significantly different between the two groups . an internal mammary artery graft was concomitantly used in 68 patients ( 97 % ) of the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft and in 61 patients ( 87 % ) without such a graft . the mean number of distal anastomoses was 3.3 and 3.4 , aortic crossclamp time was 65.3 + / - 19.9 minutes and 54.0 + / - 20.1 minutes , and cardiopulmonary bypass time was 114.8 + / - 23.6 minutes and 112.9 + / - 25.0 minutes , respectively , in the groups with and without a gastroepiploic artery graft . only aortic crossclamp time was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) longer in the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft . there were two ( 2.9 % ) early deaths and two ( 2.9 % ) new q-wave infarctions in both groups . intraaortic balloon pumping was required in five patients ( 7.1 % ) in the group with a gastroepiploic artery graft and in three patients ( 4.3 % ) without this graft . postoperative complications were similar and rare in both groups . intraoperative endoscopic laser doppler study demonstrated no significant change of gastric mucosal blood flow before and after division of the gastroepiploic artery . we concluded that there is no additional risk in the use of the gastroepiploic artery for coronary bypass grafting , and a favorable outcome can be expected . 
neonatal repair of tetralogy of fallot with and without pulmonary atresia . our experience with the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries has confirmed the attainability of excellent results with elective neonatal surgery . up to this time , we have repaired tetralogy of fallot during the neonatal period only when symptoms , either severe persistent cyanosis or cyanotic spells , have been present . this review assesses the results of such nonelective neonatal correction of tetralogy between 1973 and 1988 . twenty-seven neonates with either symptomatic tetralogy of fallot or symptomatic tetralogy of fallot with valvar pulmonary atresia underwent repair . mean age at repair was 8 + / - 8.4 days and mean weight was 3.0 + / - 0.7 kg . unsatisfactory palliative shunts had previously been placed elsewhere in four patients . twenty-five transannular patches and two conduits were used for reconstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract . there were five deaths in the hospital , three of which were due to avoidable technical problems . all deaths occurred in patients with pulmonary artery ( nakata ) index less than 150 mm2/m2 . one premature child weighing 2.3 kg displayed an absent pulmonary valve-like syndrome after repair and died late of respiratory complications caused by aneurysmal branch pulmonary arteries . actuarial survival at 5 years was 74 % . there was a single rapidly declining hazard phase for death , with the hazard approaching zero at 1 1/2 years after repair . actuarial freedom from need for reoperation was 76 % at 5 years . postoperative catheterization of 15 long-term survivors showed right ventricular pressure less than 70 % systemic in 13 cases . all patients are symptomatically well and functioning in sinus rhythm 1 to 15 years after repair ( mean , 5 + / - 4 years ) . this experience with neonates with symptoms suggests that , if mortality is lower in the absence of symptoms , elective repair of tetralogy of fallot could be reasonably undertaken during the first months of life . 
prostaglandin f1 alpha levels during and after neonatal extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . infants receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy undergo long-term cardiopulmonary bypass , are systemically heparinized , and frequently receive platelet transfusions . prostacyclin is a powerful inhibitor of platelet aggregation as well as a potent vasodilator . the levels of its stable metabolite prostaglandin f1 alpha increase significantly in children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass during heart operations but decrease to preoperative levels after bypass . to determine the effect of long-term bypass on prostacyclin levels , multiple plasma samples were analyzed in 10 human neonates both during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy and within 24 hours after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . prostaglandin f1 alpha , the stable metabolite of prostacyclin , was quantitated by radioimmunoassay in picograms per milliliter . prostaglandin f1 alpha levels were elevated while the patients received extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy but decreased with duration of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . in most infants , prostaglandin f1 alpha levels rose again during weaning from extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and remained elevated for 24 hours after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation course influenced circulating prostaglandin f1 alpha levels . fluctuating prostaglandin f1 alpha levels are of clinical significance in the management of vasomotor tone and platelet function , common problems in the care and the prevention of hemorrhage in these critically ill infants . 
a reevaluation of heparin requirements for cardiopulmonary bypass . we wished to determine if reduction in the standard heparin administration for cardiopulmonary bypass could be accomplished safely with the use of membrane oxygenators . an experimental study was designed to evaluate two different heparin administration protocols for cardiopulmonary bypass with hollow-fiber membrane oxygenators . two groups of six pigs were submitted to hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass ( 28 degrees c ) for 3 hours , then rewarmed , decannulated , and reassessed after 1 hour . in group i ( control ) heparin was administered to maintain the activated clotting time in excess of 450 seconds ; in group ii activated clotting time was maintained between 250 and 300 seconds . the mean total heparin administered was 41,000 units in group i and 25,000 units in group ii . concentration of coagulation factors ii , v , and viii , fibrinogen , and platelet count were determined before , during , and 1 hour after bypass . no significant difference in any of these coagulation parameters was observed between the groups . the performance of the oxygenators was similar in both groups , with no evidence of thrombosis . thus reduced heparin administration , enough to keep activated clotting time between 250 and 300 seconds , was not related either to major coagulation factors and platelet consumption or to derangements in the oxygenator 's performance . 
factors predictive of results of direct ablative operations for drug-refractory ventricular tachycardia . analysis of 80 patients . during a 9-year period 80 patients with drug-resistant sustained ventricular tachycardia underwent direct surgical ablation of arrhythmogenic myocardium . sixty-nine were male ( 86 % ) and 11 female ( 14 % ) , with 1.9 + / - 1.1 ( standard deviation ) ventricular tachycardia morphologies per patient . the mean number of drugs failed was 3.7 + / - 1.6 per patient . the preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction was 36.4 % + / - 14.4 % . complete preoperative endocardial mapping data ( greater than 4 endocardial sites in each ventricular tachycardia ) were available for 60 of the 80 patients ( 75 % ) and intraoperative endocardial data in the clinical ventricular tachycardia was obtained in 37 ( 46.3 % ) of the patients . in 17 patients mapped intraoperatively by computer-assisted techniques , complete epicardial and endocardial data in the clinical ventricular tachycardia were obtained in 14 patients ( 82.4 % ) . overall , 73 of 80 ( 91.3 % ) had some mapping data available . hospital mortality occurred in 10 patients ( 12.5 % ) at a mean interval of 13.5 days , range 0 to 62 days . postoperatively the clinical ventricular tachycardia has not recurred in 65 of 70 surviving patients ( 92.9 % ) . nonclinical ventricular tachycardia occurred in another four patients . all nine patients with postoperative ventricular tachycardia responded to drugs . the major factors predictive of hospital mortality were prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass ( greater than 150 minutes ) , preoperative ejection fraction less than 31 % , and incomplete preoperative mapping . hospital mortality in patients with an ejection fraction below 31 % was significantly associated with a history of amiodarone usage . at 3 years of follow-up , freedom from sudden cardiac death was 95.7 % , and 86.7 % of patients were free of ventricular tachycardia on no antiarrhythmic drugs . these results suggest that direct ventricular tachycardia operations are an effective form of therapy for patients with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia . 
influence of clinical and hemodynamic variables on risk of supraventricular tachycardia after coronary artery bypass . the influence of 45 variables on risk of postoperative supraventricular tachycardia was evaluated by univariate and multivariate analysis of data from 800 consecutive patients who underwent isolated coronary artery bypass during a 6-year interval . postoperative supraventricular arrhythmias occurred in 186 patients ( 23 % ) but did not contribute to any of the six early deaths ( 30-day mortality rate , 0.8 % ) . mean ( + / - standard deviation ) length of hospital stay was longer ( 9.8 + / - 5.7 versus 8.3 + / - 3.5 days ; p less than 0.0001 ) and mean age was older ( 65 versus 60 years ; p less than 0.002 ) in patients with postoperative supraventricular tachycardia than in those with regular rhythm . risk of supraventricular tachycardia was increased in patients with a history of atrial arrhythmias ( 45 % versus 22 % ; p less than 0.002 ) or premature atrial contractions on the preoperative electrocardiogram ( 48 % versus 22 % ; p less than 0.002 ) . multiple logistic regression analysis identified age 65 years or more , history of atrial arrhythmia or preoperative premature atrial contractions , and preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 20 mm hg or more as independent predictors of postoperative supraventricular tachycardia . six percent of patients converted to sinus rhythm spontaneously ; 82 % of patients converted within 1.1 + / - 1.9 days after onset of supraventricular tachycardia on treatment with digoxin or beta-adrenergic blocking drugs or both . only 10 % of patients with supraventricular tachycardia required electrical cardioversion . we conclude that the risk of supraventricular tachycardia after coronary artery bypass is influenced by patient-related variables and is effectively managed by conventional therapy . prophylactic treatment should be reserved for elderly patients , especially those who have atrial arrhythmias or have preoperative left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 20 mm hg or more . 
long-term clinical results with the ionescu-shiley pericardial xenograft . from 1977 to 1987 , 829 ionescu-shiley pericardial valves ( shiley , inc. , irvine , calif. ) were implanted in 766 patients at the university of ottawa heart institute . there were 476 patients who had aortic valve replacement , 234 who had mitral valve replacement , and 44 who had double valve replacement . the standard-profile design was used in 508 patients and the low-profile design in 321 patients . follow-up was obtained for 97 % of patients , with calculation of event-free probabilities . at 10 years the overall probability of freedom from structural failure was 48 % + / - 7 % after aortic valve replacement , 44 % + / - 15 % after mitral valve replacement , and 79 % + / - 11 % after double valve replacement . although at 5 years the probability of failure was statistically lower with the low-profile design , this favorability was lost by 6 years . freedom from structural failure was only 47 % + / - 7 % for the standard-profile valve at 10 years . thus the probability of freedom from reoperation was only 46 % + / - 7 % after aortic valve replacement , 39 % + / - 6 % after mitral valve replacement , and 65 % + / - 20 % after double valve replacement at 10 years . thromboembolism occurred in 69 patients , for a predicted freedom from this complication at 10 years of 79 % + / - 3 % after aortic , 73 % + / - 7 % after mitral , and 96 % + / - 4 % after double valve replacement . there were 31 cases of endocarditis . the 10-year predicted freedom from endocarditis , therefore , was 86 % + / - 3 % after aortic , 98 % + / - 1 % after mitral , and 97 % + / - 1 % after double valve replacement . a total of 221 operative and late deaths were recorded in this series . prosthetic valve failure accounted for 27 % of late deaths . the 10-year survival rates were estimated to be 56 % + / - 5 % ( aortic valve replacement ) , 54 % + / - 6 % ( mitral valve replacement ) , and 51 % + / - 8 % ( double valve replacement ) . we concluded that the ionescu-shiley pericardial xenograft provides less than optimal clinical performance and its use has been discontinued . 
analysis of the medtronic intact bioprosthetic valve . effects of " zero-pressure " fixation . the long-term performance of current-design porcine xenograft valves has not been satisfactory . these valves are generally fixed at " low pressures " of about 3 to 5 mm hg . the medtronic intact ( medtronic , inc. , minneapolis , minn. ) valve is fixed at " zero pressure " and is proposed as a better alternative to existing xenograft valves . a mechanical analysis of this valve has been carried out to determine if the intact valve differs significantly from the low-pressure fixed xenograft . twelve circumferential strips of tissue 5 mm wide were cut from the leaflets of four clinical-grade intact valves . their stress/strain , stress relaxation , and flexural behavior were examined mechanically and histologically . the intact valve was more extensible than the low-pressure fixed xenograft ( 22 % versus 12 % strain , p less than 0.001 ) , relaxed faster ( p less than 0.001 ) , and was more pliable than the xenograft ( p less than 0.05 ) . it did not , however , buckle less than did the low-pressure fixed xenograft during enforced bending , and it buckled significantly more than did fresh porcine aortic valve tissue ( p less than 0.001 ) . the intact valve also relaxed significantly more slowly than did the fresh tissue ( p less than 0.05 ) . its bending stiffness had a stronger dependence on leaflet thickness than the bending thickness of fresh tissue had ( p less than 0.001 ) but a weaker dependence than the bending thickness of the low-pressure fixed xenograft material had ( p less than 0.001 ) . the intact valve demonstrated a very large variability in extensibility , bending stiffness , and buckling behavior , with little correlation between these parameters . some valves appeared to have wrinkled leaflets ; others were likely fixed at different pressures . the shrinkage of the leaflet material at these low fixation pressures is likely important , since it can modify the elastic behavior of the valve cusps . overall , the intact valve had a more " natural " elastic behavior than had low-pressure fixed xenograft , and it should therefore experience lower stresses during normal valve function . it can be concluded that zero-pressure fixation does preserve many of the desirable stress-reducing properties of aortic valve tissue . 
lymphoedema/hypercalcaemia syndrome mediated by parathyroid-hormone-related protein . a 24-year-old woman presented with a cryptogenic , hypercalcaemic syndrome with metastatic pulmonary calcification and leg and massive breast enlargement and bilateral chylous pleural effusions compatible with a generalised lymphatic abnormality . the patient 's serum parathyroid hormone-related protein concentration was very high at a time when she was significantly hypercalcaemic , implying that the hypercalcaemia was mediated by this protein . 
measurement of d-dimer in plasma as diagnostic aid in suspected pulmonary embolism the potential of plasma measurement of d-dimer ( dd ) , a specific derivative of crosslinked fibrin , for diagnosis or exclusion of pulmonary embolism was investigated in a prospective series of 171 consecutive patients who attended an emergency department with suspected pulmonary embolism . the diagnosis was made or excluded by means of a clinical decision-making process which included clinical evaluation , ventilation-perfusion ( vq ) lung scan , and , as indicated , pulmonary angiography , venography , or non-invasive examination of the leg veins . pulmonary embolism was diagnosed by this process in 55 ( 32 % ) of 170 patients with sufficient data . all but 1 of these 55 patients had a dd concentration of 500 micrograms/l or above . the sensitivity and specificity of this cutoff concentration for the presence of pulmonary embolism were 98 % and 39 % , respectively , which give positive and negative predictive values of 44 % and 98 % . among the 115 patients ( 68 % ) who had inconclusive vq scans , 31 were diagnosed as having pulmonary embolism . 29 of the remaining 84 patients without pulmonary embolism had dd concentrations below 500 micrograms/l , which means that further diagnostic procedures could have been avoided in a quarter of the patients with inconclusive vq scans . the sensitivity of the plasma measurement of dd remained high even 3 and 7 days after presentation ( 96 % and 93 % ) . plasma measurement of dd therefore has a definite place in the diagnostic procedure for suspected acute pulmonary embolism in attenders at emergency departments : a concentration below 500 micrograms/l rules out the diagnosis . 
haemorrhagic shock encephalopathy and sudden infant death in 2 pairs of non-identical twins , haemorrhagic-shock encephalopathy syndrome developed in 1 co-twin while the other died of sudden infant death syndrome . the twin pairs were aged 3 and 4 months , respectively , and no cause was identified . we suggest that stress protein deficiency may underlie both syndromes . 
respiratory arrest in near-fatal asthma background and methods . the majority of asthma-related deaths occur outside the hospital , and therefore the exact factors leading to the terminal event are difficult to ascertain . to examine the mechanisms by which patients might die during acute exacerbations of asthma , we studied 10 such patients who arrived at the hospital in respiratory arrest or in whom it developed soon ( within 20 minutes ) after admission . results . the characteristics of the group were similar to those associated in the literature with a high risk of death from asthma , including a long history of the disease in young to middle-aged patients , previous life-threatening attacks or hospitalizations , delay in obtaining medical aid , and sudden onset of a rapidly progressive crisis . extreme hypercapnia ( mean [ + / - sd ] partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide , 97.1 + / - 31.1 mm hg ) and acidosis ( mean [ + / - sd ] ph , 7.01 + / - 0.11 ) were found before mechanical ventilation was begun , and four patients had hypokalemia on admission . despite the severe respiratory acidosis , no patient had a serious cardiac arrhythmia during the resuscitation maneuvers or during hospitalization . we observed systemic hypertension and sinus tachycardia in eight patients , atrial fibrillation in one , and sinus bradycardia in another . in both patients with arrhythmia the heart reverted to sinus rhythm immediately after manual ventilation with 100 percent oxygen was begun . the median duration of mechanical ventilation was 12 hours , and all patients had normocapnia on discharge from the hospital . conclusions . we conclude that at least in this group of patients , the near-fatal nature of the exacerbations was the result of severe asphyxia rather than cardiac arrhythmias . these results suggest that undertreatment rather than overtreatment may contribute to an increase in mortality from asthma . 
neutrophil influx into an inflammatory site inhibited by a soluble homing receptor-igg chimaera . neutrophil-mediated inflammation is involved in a number of human clinical manifestations , including the adult respiratory distress syndrome , multi-organ failure and reperfusion injury . one way of inhibiting this type of inflammatory response would be to block competitively the adhesive interactions between neutrophils and the endothelium adjacent to the inflamed region . the lectin-containing murine adhesion molecule gp90mel , the homing receptor , is found on all leukocytic cells , including neutrophils . mel 14 , a monoclonal antibody directed against this adhesion molecule , blocks lymphocyte traffic to lymph nodes and extravasation of neutrophils from blood to inflammatory sites . here we show that administration to mice of a soluble immunoglobulin chimaera containing the murine homing receptor extracellular domain significantly decreases the number of neutrophils that migrate to the peritoneum in response to the inflammatory irritant thioglycollate . these results indicate that soluble forms of a single type of adhesion molecule , the homing receptor , could be clinically effective compounds for the inhibition of neutrophil-mediated inflammation . 
the ams ( altered mrna stability ) protein and ribonuclease e are encoded by the same structural gene of escherichia coli . the in vitro and in vivo analysis of the ribonuclease e-deficient ( rne - ) and the altered mrna stability protein-deficient ( ams - ) strains of escherichia coli has demonstrated that they carry mutations in the same structural gene . strains encoding either thermolabile rnase e ( rne-3071 ) or ams protein ( ams-1 ) are defective in both rrna processing and mrna turnover . immediately after a shift to the nonpermissive temperature , the chemical decay rate of bulk mrna is slowed 2 - to 3-fold , and within 70 min , precursors to 5s rrna begin to accumulate . in addition , all of the phenotypes associated with either the rne-3071 or the ams-1 alleles were complemented by a recombinant plasmid carrying ams + . when taken together with previous genetic studies , these results suggest that the role of ribonuclease e in mrna turnover involves endonucleolytic cleavages at the proposed acag ( a/u ) auuug consensus sequence . 
nerve growth factor binding domain of the nerve growth factor receptor . a structural analysis of the rat low-affinity nerve growth factor ( ngf ) receptor was undertaken to define the ngf binding domain . mutant ngf receptor dna constructs were expressed in mouse fibroblasts or cos cells , and the ability of the mutant receptor to bind ngf was assayed . in the first mutant , all but 16 amino acid residues of the intracellular domain of the receptor were removed . this receptor bound ngf with a kd comparable to that of the wild-type receptor . a second mutant contained only the four cysteine-rich sequences from the extracellular portion of the protein . this mutant was expressed in cos cells and the resultant protein was a secreted soluble form of the receptor that was able to bind ngf . two n-terminal deletions , in which either the first cysteine-rich sequence of the first and part of the second cysteine-rich sequences were removed , bound ngf . however , a mutant lacking all four cysteine-rich sequences was unable to bind ngf . these results show that the four cysteine-rich sequences of the ngf receptor contain the ngf binding domain . 
nonhomologous chromatid exchange in hereditary and sporadic renal cell carcinomas . for the development of renal cell carcinomas , it has been suggested that a germ-line or somatic mutation occurs on one of the homologous chromosomes 3p , and subsequently the other 3p segment is lost . we have examined the karyotype and/or the allelic combination on chromosomes 3 and 5 by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis in normal kidney and tumor samples from 28 renal cell carcinomas that developed in two patients with von hippel-lindau disease ; we then compared the results to those of sporadic tumors . an unbalanced translocation between chromosome 3p and 5q or other chromosomes was found to be the most common aberration . we developed a model of nonhomologous chromatid exchange involving breakpoint clusters at chromosomes 3p13 , 3p11 .2 , 5q22 , and 8q11 .2 . subsequent chromatid segregation may result in net loss of the 3p segment either ( i ) in one step or ( ii ) after a nondisjunctional loss of the derivative chromosome carrying the 3p segment . this general mechanism could also be implicated to explain genetic changes occurring in other types of solid tumors . 
molecular evolution of inversions in drosophila pseudoobscura : the amylase gene region . the amylase region of the third chromosome of drosophila pseudoobscura has been cloned and localized to cytological band 73a . it is contained within a series of highly polymorphic inversions and serves as a convenient tool for a molecular evolutionary analysis of the inverted gene arrangements . amylase in d. pseudoobscura is a family of three genes , and some chromosomes have deletions for one or two of them . two overlapping clones covering 26 kilobases were isolated and used as probes to survey dna restriction map polymorphism among 28 lines , representing five of the major inversion types found in natural populations , as well as single chromosomes from the closely related species drosophila persimilis and drosophila miranda . restriction-site differences are considerably greater among the various gene arrangements than among chromosomes with the same gene arrangement . clustering the restriction map haplotypes yielded a dendrogram concordant with the phylogeny generated independently from cytogenetic considerations . the inversion polymorphism is estimated to be about 2 million years old . 
platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha-subunit gene ( pdgfra ) is deleted in the mouse patch ( ph ) mutation . platelet-derived growth factor receptors are composed of two subunits ( alpha and beta ) that associate with one another to form three functionally active dimeric receptor species . the two subunits are encoded by separate loci in humans and other species . in this study , we used conventional interspecific backcross mapping and an analysis of a deletional mutation to establish close linkage between the alpha-subunit gene ( pdgfra ) and the dominant spotting ( w ) locus on mouse chromosome 5 . further , by analyzing the restriction fragment length polymorphisms in interspecific f1 hybrids , we were able to demonstrate that the closely associated patch ( ph ) locus carries a deletion in pdgfra . this observation was confirmed by both dna and rna analysis of 10.5-day fetuses produced from crosses between ph heterozygotes . out of 16 fetuses analyzed , pdgfra genomic sequences were absent and no mrna for the receptor was detected in 6 fetuses that were developmentally abnormal ( the presumptive ph homozygotes ) . we also determined that the deletion associated with the ph mutation does not extend into the coding sequences of the adjacent kit gene , by analysis of the genomic dna from both the interspecific f1 hybrids and the presumptive ph homozygotes . the absence of pdgfra genomic sequences and the lack of detectable message associated with the ph mutation should make this mutant a valuable asset for understanding the role of the receptor alpha subunit during mammalian development . 
renovascular disease and renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor therapy are widely recognized , but few authors have documented the incidence or spectrum of these conditions . in a retrospective study of 530 consecutive patients presenting to our unit as acute uraemic emergencies over a six-year period , 85 ( 16 per cent ) had renovascular disease that was considered to be responsible for their loss of renal function . twenty-one ( 4 per cent ) patients had uraemia which could be clearly attributable to ace inhibitor treatment ; 18 of these cases were shown to have significant renovascular pathology . following withdrawal of the ace inhibitor the renal failure reversed in the majority of patients . we also examined 400 consecutive hypertensive patients referred over a similar period and , although vascular imaging was performed only when it was considered to be clinically indicated , 58 ( 14.5 per cent ) of these patients were shown to have renovascular pathology . a further five patients with stable chronic renal disease were seen to have a deterioration in their glomerular filtration rate coincident with commencement of ace inhibitor therapy ; this reversed when the agents were withdrawn . these observations indicate that significant renovascular disease may be more common than has been hitherto recognized and that injudicious use of ace inhibitors may result in serious complications . methods which may minimize such iatrogenic disease are suggested . 
polymyositis , pulmonary fibrosis and autoantibodies to aminoacyl-trna synthetase enzymes . the clinical and laboratory features of 29 patients who had one of three anti-aminoacyl-trna synthetase autoantibodies , anti-jo1 ( histidyl-trna synthetase ) , anti-pl12 ( alanyl-trna synthetase ) or anti-pl7 ( threonyl-trna synthetase ) were analysed and compared with the findings of other published reports . these autoantibodies were found to be associated with a syndrome delineated by inflammatory myositis ( 24 patients ) and pulmonary fibrosis ( 23 of 29 ) , but also including inflammatory arthritis ( 26/29 ) , keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( 17/29 ) , sclerodactyly ( 21/29 ) , raynaud 's phenomenon ( 27/29 ) , hepatitis ( 8/29 ) and subcutaneous calcinosis ( 7/29 ) . the most important clinical determinant of outcome in this group of patients was the severity of the interstitial pulmonary disease . no patient fulfilled the classification criteria for systemic lupus erythematosus , although 10 had autoantibodies to extractable nuclear antigens including ro , la , rnp , and sm , and two patients had anti-dsdna antibodies . although it seems unlikely that anti-aminoacyl-trna synthetase antibodies are directly responsible for causing disease , they may provide an important clue to the aetiology of this unusual syndrome . 
mycobacterial infection after renal transplantation -- report of 14 cases and review of the literature . during a nine-year period , 14 cases of mycobacterial infection ( tuberculosis ) developed in 403 renal transplant recipients at the king faisal specialist hospital and research centre in riyadh , saudi arabia , an incidence of 3.5 per cent . the annual incidence of tuberculosis was about 50 times higher than that in the general population . infection was disseminated in nine ( 64.3 per cent ) , pulmonary in four ( 28.6 per cent ) , and genitourinary in 1 ( 7.1 per cent ) . in one patient tuberculosis was transmitted by the donor 's kidney . the clinical manifestations were often ill-defined and not different from that in the normal host . cultures from all patients grew mycobacterium tuberculosis ; concomitant infection with other organisms was present in five patients ( 35.7 per cent ) . two of 18 patients ( group 1 ) with positive pretransplant tuberculin skin test developed tuberculosis after transplantation ( 11 per cent ) , and neither received isoniazid prophylaxis ; three of 70 patients ( group 2 ) with negative skin tests developed tuberculosis after transplantation ( 4.3 per cent ) . the difference between the two groups was not statistically significant . review of all published cases of mycobacterial infections in renal transplant recipients revealed 130 cases . tuberculosis was disseminated in 38.7 per cent , pulmonary in 40.2 per cent , cutaneous in 12 per cent , and miscellaneous in 9.4 per cent . atypical mycobacteria were responsible for 29 per cent of disseminated infections , 8 per cent of pulmonary infections and all cases of cutaneous and articular tuberculosis . invasive procedures were needed to establish the diagnosis in 21 of 33 disseminated cases but in only three of 47 cases of pulmonary tuberculosis ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the mortality rate from disseminated disease was 37 per cent and from all other forms of tuberculosis was 11 per cent ( p less than 0.005 ) . these findings ( 1 ) confirm the higher incidence of tuberculosis in renal transplant recipients , compared to the general population ; ( 2 ) suggest that pretransplant skin testing probably has little value in identifying patients at risk ; ( 3 ) show that disseminated tuberculosis is common after renal transplantation and requires invasive procedures for diagnosis ; ( 4 ) confirm that the donor kidney may be an important source of infection ; and ( 5 ) indicate that concomitant infection with other organisms is common . 
dialysis arthropathy : a clinical , biochemical , radiological and histological study of 36 patients . out of a population of 97 haemodialysis patients , 36 patients with dialysis arthropathy were identified . dialysis arthropathy is a chronic symmetrical polyarthritis which affected 97 per cent of the patients who had been undergoing cuprophane haemodialysis for more than 10 years . it commonly affected the shoulders , hips , hands , knees and wrists , worsening with time and extending to other joints . fifty-eight per cent of the patients complained of morning stiffness and 47 per cent complained of exacerbation of shoulder pain during or after haemodialysis . half of the patients also suffered from carpal tunnel syndrome , which recurred and was associated with a long-lasting disability . the most common radiological abnormality was periarticular bone cysts , followed by articular erosions and a destructive spondyloarthropathy , but clinical symptoms were more common than radiological signs . patients with dialysis arthropathy had a higher c-reactive protein level than patients without arthropathy ( 18.6 mg/l versus 11.4 mg/l ) , indicative of an inflammatory process . some of the clinical manifestations of the disease correlated with levels of c-reactive protein and ferritin . serum ferritin levels correlated strongly with the units of blood transfused in the past five years ( rs = 0.83 ) , and the logarithm of ferritin level correlated weakly with c-reactive protein ( r = 0.32 ) . haemarthroses were documented in 19 per cent of patients . mean serum beta 2-microglobulin was elevated in the patients with ( 57.3 mg/l ) and without arthropathy ( 50.7 mg/l ) , and there was no difference in the parathormone or aluminium levels between these groups . articular tissue was obtained in 25 patients ; beta 2-microglobulin amyloid was present in 24 . larger deposits were present in the capsular tissue , and these appeared to replace collagen bundles in eight cases . amyloid deposits replaced the lining layer in six cases . it is likely therefore that amyloid disrupts normal joint function by replacing normal joint tissue . mild chronic synovitis with haemosiderin deposition were found in approximately 60 per cent of cases . these findings suggest that amyloid derived from beta 2-microglobulin has a primary role in the pathogenesis of dialysis arthropathy , but there was also evidence of inflammatory processes . it is suggested that iron overload or haemarthroses might contribute to the inflammation , but other factors , such as dialysis-related bioincompatibility reactions , may also have a role . 
persistent rectal ulcer associated with human papillomavirus type 33 in a patient with aids : successful treatment with isotretinoin . rectal dysplasia and carcinoma associated with human papillomavirus infection are increasing in prevalence among homosexual men , particularly those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . we report a case involving a 39-year-old homosexual man with aids who developed a persistent rectal ulcer . a biopsy of the ulcer revealed severe squamous dysplasia , and human papillomavirus type 33 was detected in rectal tissue with use of in situ dna hybridization . this genotype of virus has not been previously associated with anal or rectal dysplasia in homosexual men , including those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . the rectal ulcer resolved after 2 months of oral therapy with 60 mg/d of isotretinoin , a retinoid . 
typhlitis due to balantidium coli in captive lowland gorillas . typhlitis caused by balantidium coli and requiring surgical resection occurred in three captive lowland gorillas over a 30-month period . not one of the other gorillas in the colony or their keepers was ill . b. coli is distributed widely geographically and widely among mammals . asymptomatic commensalism predominates , but invasion of the colonic mucosa can produce diarrhea and dysentery and set the stage for local or systemic spread . 
severity of meningococcal disease : assessment by factors and scores and implications for patient management . results from our own and other published series of cases of meningococcal disease were used to study prognostic factors and to compose scores for assessment of severity of disease on admission to the hospital . the difference in risk for fatality was designated the factor fatality difference ( ffd ) ; the ffd was determined by subtracting the percent fatality for factor-negative patients from the percent fatality for factor-positive patients . ffd was useful for selection of good indicators of severity of disease . blood ph of less than 7.35 was the best single factor ; low platelet count came next , followed by low blood pressure , cyanosis , ecchymosis , and low blood leukocyte count . new scores were constructed based on multiple regression analyses . several older and new scores seemed to be comparable . by combining age-adjusted systolic blood pressure ( less than 100 mm hg ) , cyanosis , ecchymosis , diarrhea before or at admission , cold extremities , absence of nuchal or back rigidity , and rectal temperature of greater than or equal to 40 degrees c , a simple bedside percentage score , the menopp bedside clinical score ( moc ) , was devised . cross-evaluations on test materials generally confirmed the choice of score . the simplicity of this score made it more clinically suitable than laboratory or mixed laboratory and bedside scores . 
nosocomial infections due to xanthomonas maltophilia ( pseudomonas maltophilia ) in patients with cancer . from december 1985 to may 1986 , xanthomonas maltophilia ( formerly known as pseudomonas maltophilia ) was isolated at an increased rate at our institution ; 52 isolates of x. maltophilia were obtained in cultures of clinical specimens from 38 patients during that time . the records of 35 of these patients form the basis of this study . twelve ( 71 % ) of the 17 infected and nine ( 50 % ) of the 18 colonized patients had received or were receiving antimicrobial therapy . eleven of 17 patients ( three of seven with septicemia , three of five with pneumonia , three with urinary tract infection , and two with wound infection ) responded to antimicrobial therapy . microbiologic studies of the potential environmental sources revealed growth of x. maltophilia in two water faucets and in one water sample from the medical intensive care unit . x. maltophilia is emerging as an important nosocomial pathogen in immunocompromised patients , especially those receiving broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy . 
captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice . i have reported a case of captopril-induced cholestatic jaundice . this drug is being used with increasing frequency , so it is important that physicians recognize this adverse effect . captopril-induced jaundice resolves after cessation of captopril therapy . 
indigenous cases of lyme disease diagnosed in north carolina . between january 1984 and december 1989 , 102 indigenous cases of lyme disease were reported in north carolina . lyme disease was reported in each of the three major geographic regions of the state : mountain , piedmont , and coastal plain . one or more diagnoses were made in 42 of 100 counties . patients ranged in age from 5 months to 78 years ( median , 27 years ) ; 58 patients ( 57 % ) reported a history of tick exposure within 1 month of the onset of symptoms . erythema migrans was reported by 93 patients ( 91 % ) . arthritis ( 30 % ) , neurologic symptoms ( 10 % ) , and cardiac abnormalities ( 7 % ) were observed . thirty of the 102 cases were confirmed serologically by indirect fluorescence microscopy or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . 
the efficacy of palliative and definitive percutaneous versus surgical drainage of pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts : a prospective study of 85 patients . we compared the efficacy of percutaneous to surgical drainage in a prospective study in 85 patients with pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts . percutaneous drainage of pancreatic abscesses in 18 patients cured three and palliated 12 who were eventually cured by elective surgical ablation ; three patients died . this compares well to our 15 surgical patients , of whom four were cured by surgery alone and six were palliated . all were subsequently cured by additional computerized tomography-guided or ultrasound-guided percutaneous drainage and medical management or surgery . five of the 15 died . percutaneous drainage cured 11 of 14 infected pseudocysts and palliated two , which were subsequently cured by surgery ; one was palliated but the patient was lost to follow-up . surgical drainage cured six of 12 infected pseudocysts and palliated the other six , of which four were cured by further surgery and the other two were cured by secondary percutaneous drainage . nine of 12 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by percutaneous aspiration , and two were palliated and later cured . in one patient , disease progressed , and he was ultimately lost to follow-up . thirteen of 14 noninfected pseudocysts were cured by surgical drainage . the other patient died of pulmonary embolus . in patients treated by percutaneous techniques , there were four major complications . our study established distinct advantages of percutaneous drainage under computerized tomographic and ultrasonic guidance : ( 1 ) the procedures can be carried out under ultrasonic guidance in an intensive care unit on critically ill patients , ( 2 ) the technique proved highly effective for initial palliation , with defervescence and stabilization occurring in most critically ill patients within 48 hours , ( 3 ) findings from fine needle aspiration provided valuable information as to microorganisms and antibiotic sensitivities and differed in 29 of 85 patients from those of concomitant blood cultures , and ( 4 ) definitive eradication of the process ( surgical ablation of residual necrotic material ) can be elected after the patient 's clinical condition stabilizes . 
orbital inflammatory disease associated with systemic lupus erythematosus . orbital inflammatory disease in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus is rare and presents a diagnostic dilemma as well as a therapeutic challenge . ours appears to be the sixth such case reported in the literature . 
dynamic analysis of the harrington system using a spinal simulator . the authors constructed a spinal simulator for the thoracolumbar spine with mechanical properties similar to those of cadaver specimens , and studied the effectiveness of the harrington system in unstable fractures of the thoracolumbar spine . distraction and compression rods were applied under various conditions . external bending moment was applied to the model to measure the internal bending moment on the vertebral body and ligaments . optimal spinal stability was obtained when the distraction system was combined with the compression system with hooks at laminas three levels above and below the fracture . 
the role of the iliolumbar ligament in the lumbosacral junction . the biomechanical function of the iliolumbar ligament in the human lumbosacral junction was investigated by analyzing the three-dimensional movements of the whole lumbar and lumbo-sacral-ilium specimens . the experiment was repeated in the following three conditions : 1 ) intact iliolumbar ligament , 2 ) right iliolumbar ligament transected , and 3 ) bilateral iliolumbar ligaments transected . the representative values of the increased motions , compared with intact , after transection of the bilateral iliolumbar ligaments were 1.7 degrees ( 23 % ) in flexion , 1.1 degrees ( 20 % ) in extension , 0.3 degrees ( 18 % ) in axial rotation , and 1.2 degrees ( 29 % ) in lateral bending . the most restricted motion governed by the iliolumbar ligament in the lumbosacral junction was lateral bending . the bilateral iliolumbar ligament specimen could restrict flexion and extension of the lumbosacral junction , but the unilateral iliolumbar ligament preparation alone could not restrict these motions . the iliolumbar ligament also had the function of restricting the rotational movement of the lumbosacral junction . 
biomechanical evaluation of lumbar spinal stability after graded facetectomies . in an in vitro experiment using fresh human lumbar functional spinal units , the effects of the division of the posterior ligaments ( consisting of the supraspinous/interspinous ligaments ) and graded facetectomies were investigated . the graded facetectomies consisted of unilateral and bilateral medial facetectomies , and unilateral and bilateral total facetectomies . six kinds of moments were applied and ranges of motion ( rom ) and neutral zones ( nz ) were determined three-dimensionally by stereophotogrammetric methods . range of motion was not affected by the division of the supraspinous/interspinous ligaments for all load modes . in flexion , rom increased slightly after unilateral medial facetectomy . in right axial rotation , rom increased after left unilateral total facetectomy . range of motion was not affected , even by bilateral total facetectomies , in extension and lateral bendings . this study suggested that medial facetectomy does not affect lumbar spinal stability , and conversely , total facetectomy , even created unilaterally , makes the lumbar spine unstable . 
problems and solutions of pedicle screw plate fixation of lumbar spine . fifty-seven patients with low back pain and sciatica of various causes were reviewed with reference to problems associated with pedicle plate fixation of the lumbar spine . eleven percent of patients had neurologic problems postoperatively and 3.5 % ( two patients ) had severe sensory impairments . all patients had this complication in the early phases of the study . of 297 screws , 17 broke , ie , 5.7 % . these breakages occurred in 12 of 57 patients ( 21 % ) . in patients with spondylolisthesis , the degree of slip correction averaged 53 % postoperatively , which decreased to 35 % at the 1-year follow-up . slip angle was maintained after correction . pedicle screw plate fixation is an effective form of immobilization of the lumbar spine used in achieving arthrodesis . the surgeon must be fully trained in methodology . it is recommended that screw and plate materials be improved to prevent screw breakage . 
red cell antibodies arising from solid organ transplants . rbc antibodies arising from transplanted organs and directed against recipient rbcs represent a well-established immunohematologic complication of solid organ transplantation . in abo-unmatched organs , the frequency and severity of graft antibodies and hemolysis generally increase with the size ( lymphoid content ) of the organ , from kidney to liver to heart-lung transplants . in the cases reviewed here , the frequency of hemolysis increased in cyclosporine-treated kidney transplant recipients and o-to-a liver transplant recipients and decreased in group ab liver transplant recipients and kidney transplant recipients receiving azathioprine or low-dose postoperative graft irradiation . available data can not otherwise distinguish which cyclosporine-treated recipients of abo-unmatched kidneys and livers ( 30-40 % of total ) will develop graft antibody . there has been no conclusive effect to date of the age , race , or gender of the donor or the recipient , of cadaver versus living kidney donors , or of patients ' a2 or secretor status . in a few cases of living-donor kidney grafts , the donor was the patient 's mother or wife who had been exposed to the recipient 's rbc antigens via pregnancy . the abo antibodies are typically igg , appear 7 to 10 days after transplantation , and last for about a month . if immediate-spin crossmatching is done routinely , dats are recommended in compatibility testing after abo-unmatched transplants . changes in the immunosuppressive regimen , such as a change from cyclosporine therapy , have not affected the duration of these antibodies . most patients require only transfusions for this self-limited process , but six cases of hemolysis-induced acute renal failure have been reported , and one death was attributed to complications of hemolysis . rbc or plasma exchange has been performed in a few fulminant cases . rbcs of the donor 's blood type are given when antibody appears . some workers recommend such transfusion as prophylaxis at the time of surgery , although in liver transplants , the plasma accompanying a large amount of group o rbcs given perioperatively might be problematic . in several other centers , abo-unmatched liver transplants have equivalent overall graft survivals , but the pittsburgh adult patients with hemolysis have had reduced early graft survival . in the cases reviewed here , nine igg rh antibodies from kidney grafts directed against recipient rbcs have been observed , usually beginning 2 to 3 weeks after a cyclosporine-treated transplant , lasting for 2 to 6 months after operation , and causing mild hemolysis . one case represented a primary immune response from a previously unsensitized donor . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
anal submucosal injection : a new route for drug administration . vi . chronic prostatitis : a new modality of treatment with report of eleven cases . the anal submucosal route was used for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis in 11 patients . prior to presentation , the patients had received different antimicrobial agents ; the symptoms disappeared only to recur whenever the drug was discontinued . after repeated failure , the patients were treated with gentamicin to which the organisms were sensitive , via the anal submucosal route . a daily injection was given for ten days on an outpatient basis . the technique of injection is described . the patients were followed up clinically and by segmented cultures for three years . no anorectal complications were encountered as had been demonstrated experimentally . the symptoms of chronic prostatitis disappeared , and culture was negative by the end of treatment and for two to three years thereafter in all patients . it appears that the antimicrobial agent , via anal route , reaches the prostatic tissues at a higher concentration than that of the serum . the route adopted by the drug to reach the prostate from the anal submucosa is presented . 
ultrasonographic findings of testicular microlithiasis associated with intratubular germ cell neoplasia . testicular microlithiasis is an uncommon condition in which calcified concretions fill the lumina of seminiferous tubules . we report the case of a twenty-three-year-old white man with a metastatic germ cell tumor and normal findings on testicular physical examination , but abnormal ultrasonography of the right testis . orchiectomy revealed intratubular germ cell neoplasia with testicular microlithiasis . multiple circular echogenic foci on ultrasound correlated with the histologic finding of testicular microlithiasis . further studies are indicated for assessing ultrasonography as an adjunct for screening the population at risk for intratubular germ cell neoplasia . 
chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease . chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease may be caused by infections , emphysema , cystic fibrosis , lung cancer , sarcoidosis and rheumatologic syndromes . the diagnostic evaluation includes a complete history , a physical examination , a chest radiograph , and sputum examination and culture . in some cases , computed tomographic scanning and biopsy are required . 
exercise thallium-201 imaging in complete left bundle branch block and the prevalence of septal perfusion defects . to determine the prevalence of septal defects in a generalized referral population , the records of 93 consecutive patients with complete left bundle branch block ( bbb ) who underwent symptom-limited treadmill exercise testing with thallium-201 myocardial imaging over a 3-year period were reviewed . segmental analysis of the planar thallium-201 images was performed in a blinded fashion with agreement by consensus . computerized quantitative analysis of the images also was independently performed , and was correlated with the visual interpretations . forty-seven patients ( 51 % ) had normal images , and 46 ( 49 % ) had defects of greater than or equal to 2 segments . in the abnormal studies , only 13 patients ( 14 % of the total population ) had septal defects , while a much higher number of patients , 33 ( 39 % ) , had inferior or apical defects , or both . coronary angiography was performed in 6 patients with septal defects : significant narrowing of the left anterior descending coronary artery was found in 4 patients , a narrowed right coronary artery was found in 1 , and normal coronary arteries were seen in the other patient . in conclusion , whereas previous studies have suggested a high percentage of false-positive septal defects in patients with left bbb , this study demonstrates a low prevalence ( 14 % ) of septal defects in a large population of unselected patients presenting for exercise thallium-201 imaging . therefore , exercise thallium-201 imaging remains a useful procedure for evaluating patients with complete left bbb . 
duration of the qt interval and total and cardiovascular mortality in healthy persons ( the framingham heart study experience ) . the baseline electrocardiograms of 5,125 original subjects of the framingham heart study were measured to examine the relation of the qt interval corrected for heart rate ( qtc ) to risk of total mortality , sudden cardiac death , and death due to coronary artery disease over a 30-year follow-up period . quintiles of qtc ( seconds ) less than or equal to 0.36 , 0.36 to 0.38 , 0.39 to 0.40 , 0.41 to 0.43 and greater than or equal to 0.44 were studied in relation to these outcomes . there were no significant differences in the risk of total mortality , sudden cardiac death or death due to coronary artery disease according to qtc . a similar lack of significant association between qtc and these 3 outcomes was observed among all persons studied and in the 2 sexes after using a multiple regression analysis to control for several potentially confounding characteristics including age , gender , cigarette smoking , serum total cholesterol , systolic systemic blood pressure and framingham relative weight . the results of this study fail to demonstrate an association between baseline qtc and overall mortality , and deaths due to sudden cardiac events or coronary artery disease in a large population-based cohort of essentially healthy persons in whom pathologic forms of qtc prolongation are uncommon . 
blood rheology after cardiac valve replacement with mechanical prostheses or bioprostheses . arterial thromboembolism is a serious complication in patients after heart valve replacement . abnormalities in blood rheology may contribute to this complication . therefore , the aim of this study was to compare various determinants of blood rheology in patients with substitute heart valves with those in healthy controls ; furthermore , differences between patients with mechanical valves and those with bioprostheses should be investigated . the hemorrheologic determinants -- fibrinogen , plasma viscosity , red cell aggregation , hematocrit and platelet aggregation -- were studied in 92 patients with mechanical bileaflet valves , in 28 patients with bioprostheses and in 29 control subjects ; the time since valve replacement was greater than or equal to 9 months . fibrinogen , plasma viscosity , red cell and spontaneous platelet aggregation were found to be increased in all patients after heart valve replacement compared with normal subjects ( fibrinogen : 348 + / - 87 vs 267 + / - 66 mg/dl , p less than 0.01 ; plasma viscosity : 1.71 + / - 0.1 vs 1.66 + / - 0.1 mpas , p less than 0.05 ; red cell aggregation : 9.9 + / - 2 vs 7.8 + / - 2 u , p less than 0.01 ; platelet aggregation : 22 + / - 15 vs 13 + / - 13 % , p less than 0.01 ) ; among patients , fibrinogen , plasma viscosity and spontaneous platelet aggregation were higher in mechanical valves than in bioprostheses ( fibrinogen : 359 + / - 95 vs 314 + / - 41 mg/dl , p less than 0.01 ; plasma viscosity : 1.72 + / - 0.1 vs 1.68 + / - 0.1 mpas , p less than 0.1 ; platelet aggregation : 23 + / - 15 vs 16 + / - 11 % ; p less than 0.05 ) , whereas no difference could be found for red cell aggregation ( 9.7 + / - 2 vs 10.5 + / - 2 % , p greater than 0.05 ) . 
hemodynamic effects of ketamine , hypoxia and hyperoxia in children with surgically treated congenital heart disease residing greater than or equal to 1,200 meters above sea level . little data are available on the hemodynamic effects of premedications and anesthetic agents on infants and children . ketamine is the most frequently used anesthetic agent for cardiac catheterization procedures in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease . previous reports both suggest and deny ketamine 's pulmonary vasoreactive effects . since the advent of sophisticated noninvasive equipment , one of the few indications for cardiac catheterization is to obtain accurate pressure data . if ketamine alters pulmonary vascular resistance , it would negate the primary reason for the procedure . because the patient population studied herein resides greater than or equal to 1,200 meters above sea level , concerns about pharmacologic effects on pulmonary vascular resistance are enhanced . simultaneous pulmonary artery and aortic pressures , thermodilution cardiac outputs , and blood gases were measured in room air ( 16 % oxygen ) and with ketamine infusion in 14 patients at cardiac catheterization . reaction to hypoxia identified 3 groups : normal , intermediate and hyperresponders . the normal responders had normal resistance ratios ( 0.11 ) in room air and had little resistance ratio response to hypoxia ( +0.02 ) , hyperoxia ( -0.03 ) or ketamine ( +0.01 ) . the intermediate responders had a slightly higher but normal resistance ratio ( 0.20 ) in room air , and a moderate reaction to hypoxia ( +0.13 ) , hyperoxia ( -0.08 ) and ketamine ( +0.11 ) . the hyperresponders had an elevated resistance ratio ( 0.42 ) in room air and a striking reaction to hypoxia ( +0.65 ) , hyperoxia ( -0.17 ) and ketamine ( +0.49 ) . hypoxia and ketamine have a greater effect on resistance ratio than hypoxia alone in patients with reactive pulmonary vascular beds . ketamine should not be used in children undergoing procedures to establish operability based on pulmonary vascular resistance or pulmonary vascular reactivity . 
bleeding ectatic vascular lesion involving the sigmoid colon , endoscopically indistinguishable from angiodysplasia , in an 8-yr-old boy . an 8-yr-old japanese boy was hospitalized , complaining of active hematochezia . he was shown to have a cherry-red , blood-oozing area of vascular dilation with mucosal prominence in the sigmoid colon by endoscopy , but had no other mucocutaneous vascular abnormalities . a family history was noncontributory . under the clinical diagnosis of angiodysplasia of the sigmoid colon , he underwent an elliptical resection of the part , based on the intraoperative endoscopic findings . however , histological examination of the surgical specimen revealed a totally different picture from that seen in angiodysplasia : the thin-walled , markedly ectatic , nontortuous veins with hemorrhage were seen only just below the muscularis mucosae , around which the normal ones were shown to coexist . he has had no rebleeding for the past 3 yr . this lesion is considered to be an isolated congenital visceral telangiectasia involving veins . 
upper gastrointestinal bleeding in dengue fever . twenty-six virologically and serologically confirmed dengue patients with signs of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding ( 13.1 % ) were studied during the 1987 outbreak in southern taiwan . within a 1-yr period from 1987 to 1988 in kaohsiung chang gung memorial hospital , there were 198 patients with dengue fever confirmed . viral isolation and serological studies indicated that type i dengue was the cause . there was no evidence of sequential secondary infection among them . the 26 patients were evaluated gastroduodenoscopically . most of the dengue patients who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding had gastric ulcers or duodenal ulcers ; superficial and hemorrhagic gastritis are the other relevant endoscopic findings . thirteen patients ( 50 % ) had a past history of peptic ulcer symptoms , whereas the other 13 did not . dengue infection is a precipitating factor in inducing peptic ulcer bleeding because of hemostatic derangements . supportive therapy and blood transfusions alone were adequate treatment , except for one patient who required surgery due to massive bleeding of a duodenal ulcer . no mortality was observed in this study . 
pharmacokinetics of famotidine after intravenous administration in liver disease . the pharmacokinetics of famotidine were studied after the administration of a single intravenous dose of 20-mg to seven normal volunteers , six patients with chronic hepatitis , 14 patients with compensated cirrhosis , and seven patients with decompensated cirrhosis . the plasma terminal elimination half-life of famotidine was significantly prolonged and famotidine total body clearance was significantly reduced in patients with decompensated cirrhosis , whose creatinine clearance was 57.2 + / - 6.7 ml/min/1 .48 m2 , but these changes were not significant in patients with chronic hepatitis ( creatinine clearance : 109.2 + / - 10.5 ml/min/1 .48 m2 ) or in patients with compensated cirrhosis ( creatinine clearance : 72.2 + / - 26.5 ml/min/1 .48 m2 in comparison with normal volunteers . the total volume of distribution at steady state was not significantly different between the normal volunteers and the three groups of patients . famotidine total body clearance showed a weak but significant correlation with the creatinine clearance ( r = 0.66 , p less than 0.001 ) , serum albumin level ( r = 0.51 , p less than 0.01 ) , and serum total bilirubin level ( r = 0.36 , p less than 0.05 ) , which suggested that the reduction in clearance was due in part to the concomitant renal impairment , as well as hepatic dysfunction in these patients . in conclusion , famotidine total body clearance was reduced in decompensated cirrhosis , indicating that the dose schedule requires modification in patients with this condition . 
short-term course of corticosteroids in the treatment of resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease . the aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of short-term corticosteroids in resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease after 4 wk or more on standard treatment . thirty-seven patients were randomly allocated to two groups : group i ( 18 patients ) was put on 40 mg furosemide and 200 mg spironolactone , in addition to a 15-day , tapering dose of prednisone ( 15 , 10 , 5 mg ) . group ii ( 19 ) patients received the same diuretics without steroids , and served as controls . at the end of a 2-wk course of therapy , the mean variations were as follows : body weight in patients in group i ( " cases " ) decreased by 9.8 kg , compared with 4.3 kg in controls ; abdominal girth decreased by 7.4 cm in cases , compared with 3.6 cm in controls ; urine output increased by 635.9 ml in cases , compared with 364.6 ml in controls ; urinary sodium excretion increased by 16.5 meq/day in cases , compared with 4.1 meq/day in controls . these differences between cases and controls were found to be statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . on the other hand , there were insignificant differences as regards decrease in blood urea ( 3.2 g/dl for cases and 2.7 g/dl for controls ) , decrease in serum creatinine ( 0.2 mg/dl for both cases and controls ) , increase in serum albumin ( 0.3 g/dl in cases and 0.2 g/dl in controls ) , increase in serum sodium ( 3.2 meq/l in cases and 2.7 meq/l in controls ) , and increase in serum potassium ( 0.2 meq/l in cases and 0.4 meq/l in controls ) . we conclude that a short-term course of corticosteroids in conjunction with standard diuretics has proved to be an effective , safe , and economical modality to relieve resistant hepatic ascites . it can be considered a temporary alternative to paracentesis with albumin infusion . 
spontaneous rupture of hepatocellular carcinoma : a review of 172 japanese cases . the spontaneous rupture of a primary hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) accounts for 10 % mortality of hcc patients in japan . because this problem occurs much less frequently in western countries , it is often difficult for clinicians practicing in such countries to decide upon the best course of action during the crisis accompanying the spontaneous rupture of a hcc . in an effort to advance the general knowledge of this disease and clarify a selection for its treatment , we review 172 cases of spontaneous rupture of a hcc reported in the japanese literature . the chief complaint of the patients was sudden epigastralgia or right hypochondriac pain . abdominal paracentesis was positive in 86 % of the patients . liver failure was the cause of death in 42 % of the patients . therefore , it is important to evaluate liver reserve quickly . in addition , emergency hemostatic procedures must be implemented to avoid hemorrhagic shock . although two-stage hepatectomy was performed in only 12 % of the cases , these had the highest survival rates . consequently , this is the procedure of choice for the treatment of spontaneous rupture of a hcc . 
disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection with hepatic involvement in a patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . extrapulmonary infection with pneumocystis carinii ( p. carinii ) in aids patients is uncommon , and is often described only at postmortem examination . although most antemortem cases involve spread to the bone marrow or spleen , p. carinii involvement of other organs has only recently been described . despite the frequency of liver enzyme abnormalities in aids patients with a history of p. carinii pneumonia , p. carinii has been observed only rarely in the liver . we present a well-documented case of p. carinii involving the liver in an aids patient with p. carinii pneumonia and progressive liver enzyme abnormalities . we suggest that p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of aids-related liver disease . 
nodular regenerative hyperplasia : a cause of ascites and hepatomegaly after chemotherapy for leukemia . tender hepatomegaly and ascites occurred in a young woman receiving cytosine arabinoside and daunorubicin for acute myelogenous leukemia . whereas veno-occlusive disease was suspected clinically , liver biopsy showed nodular regenerative hyperplasia with no evidence of hepatic vein abnormalities . it is postulated that nodular regenerative hyperplasia can be initiated by hepatotoxicity of chemotherapy agents used to treat leukemia and/or that these agents exacerbate clinical manifestations of this histological abnormality . nodular regenerative hyperplasia should be added to the list of liver problems occurring in patients with leukemia . 
eosinophilic ascites due to hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis . we report the case of a patient with cryptogenic cirrhosis , new onset ascites , and hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis who had significant eosinophilia of the peritoneal fluid . the eosinophilia resolved with treatment of the s. stercoralis infection , and did not recur during two subsequent episodes of ascites and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . eosinophilic ascites is rare in parasitic infection , but it has been described in a variety of disorders which are discussed . 
enteroliths causing intermittent obstruction in a patient with crohn 's disease . calcified enteroliths as a cause of intermittent small bowel obstruction is an uncommon clinical entity . the pathophysiological mechanism involves stasis of intestinal contents and has been associated with meckel 's diverticulum , tuberculosis , and regional enteritis . this case describes prophylactic operative intervention in a symptomatic patient with enteroliths as a result of crohn 's disease . 
endoscopic placement of a foley catheter across a stricture and rectovaginal fistula to perform a barium enema . evaluation of enteric fistulas is often best performed with barium contrast studies . clinical situations that preclude the satisfactory installation of barium decrease the yield of the study . a case is presented of a 59-yr-old female with stage iii-b cervical carcinoma and a known rectovaginal fistula with an adjacent sigmoid colon stricture . an additional more proximal , enteric fistula was suspected . definitive preoperative knowledge of the existence or absence of this fistula would have shortened the duration of a planned palliative intervention . the rectovaginal fistula and stricture precluded adequate barium and air installation for contrast study . colonoscopy was unsuccessful . we have developed a combined technique in which the endoscopic placement of a semirigid guidewire allowed placement of a foley catheter across the fistula and stricture . successful barium study was performed . intraoperative time and hospital stay were shortened . 
ascites revealing peritoneal and hepatic extramedullary hematopoiesis with peliosis in agnogenic myeloid metaplasia : case report and review of the literature . a 61-year-old man presented with ascites in the course of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia ( amm ) . ascitic fluid was exudative and contained mature and immature leukocytes , erythroid cells , and megakaryocytes as observed on a bone marrow smear . peritoneal biopsy showed myeloid metaplasia , and liver biopsy revealed intrasinusoidal myeloid metaplasia and peliosis . ascites cleared after abdominal radiotherapy but treatment resulted in transient aplasia . subsequently , portal hypertension was demonstrated by hepatic transjugular catheterization . complications of splenomegaly led to splenectomy and splenorenal shunt followed by fatal acute hepatitis and septic shock . a review of the literature and an analysis of mechanisms of ascites occurring in amm , especially peritoneal implants of myeloid tissue and occurrence of peliosis in myeloproliferative disorders , are presented . 
utility of upright tilt-table testing in the evaluation and management of syncope of unknown origin purpose : vasovagally mediated hypotension and bradycardia are believed to be common , but difficult to diagnose , causes of syncope . upright tilt-table testing has been proposed as a possible way to test for vasovagal episodes . this study investigated the clinical utility of this technique in the evaluation and management of patients with syncope of unknown origin . patients and methods : twenty-five patients with recurrent unexplained syncope and six control subjects were evaluated by use of an upright tilt-table test for 30 minutes , with or without an infusion of isoproterenol ( 1 to 3 micrograms/minute given intravenously ) , in an attempt to provoke bradycardia , hypotension , or both . of the 25 patients , there were 14 males and 11 females , with a mean age of 50 + / - 16 years . six control patients with no history of syncope were also studied . all tilt-positive patients received therapy with either beta-blockers , disopyramide , transdermal scopolamine , or hydroflurocortisone , the efficacy of which was evaluated by another tilt-table test . results : syncope occurred in six patients ( 24 % ) during the baseline tilt and in nine patients ( 36 % ) during isoproterenol infusion ( total positives , 60 % ) . none of the controls had syncope during the test . all patients who had positive test results eventually became tilt-table-negative by therapy , and over a mean follow-up period of 16 + / - 2 months no further episodes have occurred . conclusion : from this study we conclude that upright tilt-table testing combined with isoproterenol infusion is clinically useful in the diagnosis of vasovagal syncope and the evaluation of pharmacologic therapy . 
diagnostic evaluation of syncope syncope is a common medical problem and is caused by a wide variety of diseases ranging from physiologic derangements with few consequences to conditions that may be immediately life-threatening . because of the large differential diagnosis , many diagnostic tests are available for its evaluation . however , a cause of syncope is not established in 38 % to 47 % of patients despite these tests . in those patients in whom a diagnosis can be assigned , the history and physical examination identify a potential cause in 49 % to 85 % . furthermore , in 8 % of additional patients , history and physical examination are suggestive of causes that need confirmation by specific tests . routine blood tests rarely yield diagnostically helpful information . in those patients in whom a potential cause for syncope is identified , arrhythmias are diagnosed by electrocardiogram in 2 % to 11 % of patients , cardiac monitoring in 3 % to 27 % ( telemetry or holter ) , stress test in less than 1 % , carotid massage in less than 1 % , and electrophysiologic studies in less than 3 % . diagnosis of arrhythmias as a cause of syncope is problematic because symptomatic correlation during electrocardiographic monitoring is rarely found ( approximately 4 % ) , and as a result , there is no uniform agreement on diagnostic criteria for abnormalities . similar problems exist in the use of electrophysiologic studies . upright tilt testing and psychiatric examination may be useful in evaluation of recurrent syncope of unknown cause in patients without organic heart disease . based on the results of recent studies , strategies for evaluation of patients with syncope are possible that utilize selective and goal-directed diagnostic testing . 
association between hypothermia and mortality rate of premature infants -- revisited . the incidence of hypothermia ( axillary temperature less than 35 degrees c ) on admission of an infant to a neonatal intensive care unit was retrospectively analyzed in 559 very-low-birth-weight ( less than 1500 gm ) newborn infants . the smaller infants were at greater risk of hypothermia . only in the larger neonates was mortality related to hypothermia , which suggests that this known association bears little cause-effect relationship . 
therapy of persistent human papillomavirus disease with two different interferon species . consensus interferon and interferon alfa-2a were used to treat patients with persistent human papillomavirus disease . thirty-one patients were treated with either consensus interferon or a placebo ( 25 received active drug and 6 received placebo ) , and 24 patients were treated with interferon alfa-2a . of the 25 patients who received consensus interferon , 19 ( 76 % ) showed either complete or partial clearing of condyloma 10 and 16 weeks after initiation of therapy ; in 22 of the 24 patients ( 91 % ) who received interferon alfa-2a , clearing was demonstrated after a similar time period . thirty of 34 patients who had no response or a partial response requested additional therapy , and 20 of these patients treated with adjunctive therapy had a complete response . the results of this study support the efficacy of both interferons in the treatment of overt condyloma acuminatum and suggest that interferon enhances subsequent adjunctive therapy . 
endoscopic sclerotherapy in extrahepatic portal hypertension in pregnancy . extrahepatic portal hypertension usually occurs during childhood , but a substantial number of patients may reach adult life . there is a general agreement that pregnancy may become hazardous to these patients , and some authors even consider this condition as a contraindication to conceiving . a case of endoscopic sclerotherapy in such a patient is herein presented , and the approach to such patients is discussed . 
spontaneous and steroid-induced recurrence of endometriosis after suppression by a gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist in the rat . recurrent endometriosis in women is difficult to study because of the ethical consideration of performing repeated surgeries . previously in the rat model we described therapeutic regression of endometriosis with the gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist antide . presently we report the spontaneous and steroid-induced recurrence of endometriosis after withdrawal from antide therapy . rats with endometriosis received antide or vehicle on days 0 ( proestrus ) , 3 , 6 , and 9 and were killed on days 0 , 6 , 12 , 18 , 24 , 30 , and 42 ( n = 4 antide-treated and 4 vehicle-treated rats killed per day ) . additional antide-treated rats ( n = 4 per treatment ) received estrogen , progesterone , both estrogen and progesterone , cholesterol , and no steroid on day 9 and were killed on day 12 . antide significantly suppressed endometriotic implant size on days 12 , 18 , and 24 . however , implant size spontaneously returned to pretreatment values by day 30 . administration of steroids on day 9 elicited regrowth of antide-suppressed endometriosis ( estrogen plus progesterone greater than estrogen , progesterone , or cholesterol greater than no steroid ) by day 12 . this resilience of endometriosis offers an explanation for treatment failure and recurrence of the disease in women . 
the relationships among umbilical artery velocimetry , fetal biophysical profile , and placental inflammation in preterm premature rupture of the membranes . the relationships among umbilical artery velocimetry , fetal biophysical profile , and placental inflammation in 44 consecutive patients with preterm premature rupture of the membranes were determined . all patients were followed up with daily fetal biophysical profiles and systolic/diastolic ratios . after delivery , placental pathologic examination for histologic evidence of infection ( umbilical vasculitis ) was performed in all cases according to a standard protocol . the longitudinal trends of fetal biophysical profile scores and systolic/diastolic ratios were analyzed for patients with and without umbilical vasculitis . analysis of the longitudinal trend during the period of 2 to 7 days before delivery showed that there were no differences of biophysical scores of systolic/diastolic ratios in either group . however , in the last examination , within 24 hours of delivery , patients with umbilical vasculitis had higher systolic/diastolic ratios and lower biophysical profile scores as compared with previous examinations . in addition , the biophysical profile score of the last examination 24 hours before delivery in patients with umbilical vasculitis was found to be significantly lower as compared with patients without umbilical vasculitis ( mean + / - sd , 6.6 + / - 2.3 versus 8.2 + / - 2.4 , respectively ) . these data suggest that subclinical stages of infection are associated with biophysical alterations of the fetoplacental unit ( i.e. , simultaneous decrease in fetal biophysical activities and increase in systolic/diastolic ratios ) . daily umbilical artery systolic/diastolic ratios , in conjunction with biophysical profiles , may be useful to follow up patients with preterm premature rupture of the membranes . 
endometriosis associated with massive ascites and absence of pelvic peritoneum . although massive ascites associated with endometriosis has been reported in rare cases , this patient was also noted to have massive destruction of the pelvic peritoneum . failure of medical suppression necessitated total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy . several months after surgery ascites resolved , possibly with reestablishment of the pelvic peritoneum . 
the use of the cytobrush cervical sampler in patients with cervical stenosis . in 37 of 43 patients ( 86 % ) with cervical stenosis ( inability to undergo passage of the cotton-tipped applicator ) , the cytobrush cervical sampler was successfully passed into the endocervical canal . the use of the cytobrush sampler for cervical cytologic screening appears to be valuable in patients with cervical stenosis . 
wasting and macrophage production of tumor necrosis factor/cachectin and interleukin 1 in experimental visceral leishmaniasis . wasting and secretion of the catabolic cytokines tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) / cachectin and interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) were assessed in weanling syrian hamsters infected with leishmania donovani amastigotes . whereas the mean weight of uninfected animals increased progressively over 9 weeks , the mean weight of infected animals plateaued at 4-6 weeks and then decreased progressively until death . splenic mononuclear cells from control hamsters produced 11.3 + / - 8.3 ( sd ) ng tnf/10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr . tnf secretion in infected animals was greater than the mean + / - 2 sd of controls in 1 of 3 hamsters at 2 weeks post-infection and in 8 of 9 hamsters at weeks 4-8 . the mean tnf secreted by infected animals studied at weeks 4-8 was 371 ( range 28-800 ) ng tnf/10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr ( p = 0.005 ) . control hamsters produced 7.7 + / - 2.7 pg il-1 / 10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr . at 2 weeks , mononuclear cells from 2 of 3 infected animals secreted amounts of il-1 greater than the mean + / - 2 sd of controls . all of 8 infected hamsters secreted increased amounts of il-1 at 4-8 weeks . the mean was 164 ( range 17-370 ) pg il-1 / 10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr ( p = 0.002 ) . in comparison to infected animals , mononuclear cells from control hamsters incubated with lipopolysaccharide , 10 micrograms/ml , produced 172.5 ng tnf and 44.6 pg of il-1 / 10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr . the effect of visceral leishmaniasis on food intake was assessed in a separate group of animals housed individually in metabolic cages . significant reductions in weight and food intake were first observed at 2 and 3 weeks of infection , respectively . by 5 weeks , the food intake of infected animals was 46 % that of controls . syrian hamsters infected with l. donovani provide an excellent model with which to study the mechanism of wasting . 
myocardial epinephrine sensitization with subanesthetic concentrations of halothane in dogs . the authors investigated myocardial epinephrine sensitization by subanesthetic concentrations of halothane . the dose-response relationship for the action of halothane was examined with etomidate plus varying subanesthetic concentrations of halothane in dogs . the arrhythmogenic threshold of epinephrine was decreased in a dose-dependent manner at end-tidal concentrations of halothane between 0.1 and 0.3 % . at end-tidal halothane is greater than 0.3 % , and no further reduction of arrhythmogenic threshold of epinephrine occurred . the plasma concentrations of epinephrine producing four or more premature ventricular contractions in 15 s were 201.3 + / - 34.3 , 98.1 + / - 13.9 , 60.3 + / - 8.63 , 57.9 + / - 12.8 , 54.5 + / - 8.61 , and 53.9 + / - 4.86 ng/ml ( mean + / - sem ) , at 0 , 0.1 , 0.3 , 0.5 , 1.0 , and 1.5 % of halothane at end-tidal concentrations , respectively . the results suggest that in the presence of etomidate , halothane produces myocardial sensitization to epinephrine at subanesthetic concentrations as low as 0.1 % . increasing halothane to 0.3 % produces a further reduction in the arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine . 
body position changes redistribute lung computed-tomographic density in patients with acute respiratory failure . ten patients with parenchymal acute respiratory failure ( arf ) underwent computed tomography ( ct ) scans while in the supine and prone positions . at equal levels of positive end-expiratory pressure , the authors measured the changes of ct density in dorsal and ventral basilar lung regions induced by the change of position as well as alterations of gas exchange . the level of venous admixture did not change with body position . the ct scan image of each lung was fractionated into ten levels from dorsal to ventral , each constituting 10 % of the lung height . after measuring each lung fraction , the volume , the average ct number , its frequency distribution , and the expected normal value , we computed the lung tissue mass , the excess tissue mass , and the fraction of normally inflated tissue ( excess tissue mass = amount of " tissue , " which includes edema , cells , and blood in excess of the expected normal value ) . we also estimated the superimposed hydrostatic pressure on each lung region . we found that the excess lung tissue mass is independent of position . however , in patients in the supine position , lung ct density increased and regional inflation decreased from ventral to dorsal , suggesting progressive deflation of gas-containing alveoli along the gravity gradient . a similar ventral-dorsal deflation pattern occurred within 10 min in patients in the prone position . we conclude that the lung in patients with arf behaves like an elastic body with a diffusely increased mass ; dependent lung regions are compressed by the pressure of overlying structures . 
hexamethonium and midazolam terminate dysrhythmias and hypertension caused by intracerebroventricular bupivacaine in rabbits . previous studies have demonstrated that bupivacaine administered directly into the central nervous system ( cns ) is capable of producing signs of bupivacaine cardiovascular toxicity . to investigate the mechanisms by which bupivacaine may act within the cns to produce cardiovascular toxicity , we studied four groups of halothane-anesthetized rabbits in which infusion of intracerebroventricular ( icv ) bupivacaine or intravenous ( iv ) phenylephrine resulted in dysrhythmias and hypertension . in group 1 ( n = 5 ) , icv bupivacaine ( 500 + / - 79 micrograms [ mean + / - sem ] ) produced dysrhythmias lasting 73 + / - 13 min , whereas icv saline caused no dysrhythmias or hypertension . in group 2 ( n = 9 ) , icv bupivacaine-induced hypertension and dysrhythmias were abolished by icv midazolam in 4.4 + / - 0.6 min , and when dysrhythmias and hypertension recurred ( 22 + / - 0.9 min ) , hexamethonium ( 10 mg/kg iv ) promptly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension ( 14 + / - 1 s ) . in group 3 ( n = 10 ) , icv bupivacaine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by increasing the inspired halothane concentration from 0.8 to 1.6 % . in group 4 ( n = 6 ) , iv phenylephrine-induced dysrhythmias and hypertension were not affected by icv midazolam . these results suggest that icv bupivacaine produces dysrhythmias and hypertension by increasing autonomic nervous system ( ans ) outflow from the brain stem . the finding that peripheral autonomic blockade by hexamethonium rapidly terminated dysrhythmias and hypertension supports this mechanism . we speculate that icv bupivacaine produces an increase in autonomic outflow by blockade of the inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) neurons that are known to be the principal tonic inhibitors of the ans . 
thromboxane a2 biosynthesis in acute asthma and after antigen challenge . thromboxane a2 is a potent bronchial smooth muscle spasmogen in vitro , and it has been implicated in airway inflammation and in the genesis of bronchial hyperresponsiveness in asthma . we have examined the urinary excretion of a variety of products derived from thromboxane a2 ( thromboxane b2 , 2,3-dinor , and 11-dehydro-thromboxane b2 ) and prostacyclin ( 6-oxo-pgf1 alpha and 2,3-dinor-6-oxo-pgf1 alpha ) using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in patients admitted acutely to hospital with severe asthma and in atopic volunteers after bronchial antigen challenge . urinary excretion of all thromboxane-derived products was markedly increased in a number of patients with severe acute asthma compared with that in a nonsmoking control population , in some cases approaching those previously described in myocardial infarction : txb2 , 31.6 + / - 12.0 versus 6.5 + / - 0.9 ; 2,3-dinor-txb2 , 79.0 + / - 19.2 versus 29.5 + / - 2.7 ; and 11-dehydro-txb2 , 234.3 + / - 65.3 versus 25.0 + / - 2.1 ng/mmol creatinine ( p less than 0.001 ) . urinary prostacyclin-derived products were also significantly raised in acute asthma . in contrast , after inhaled allergen challenge in atopic volunteers , which caused significant bronchoconstriction , urinary excretion of thromboxane-derived products was not significantly elevated : txb2 , 5.6 + / - 1.1 versus 5.7 + / - 1.0 ; 2,3-dinor-txb2 , 41.2 + / - 12.5 versus 28.5 + / - 6.9 ; and 11-dehydro-txb2 , 69.8 + / - 17.6 versus 39.7 + / - 11.2 ng/mmol creatinine . in a separate experiment , less than 2 % of exogenously administered txb2 to the airway appeared as urinary thromboxane-derived products , suggesting that production of greater than or equal to 1 microgram of txa2 in vivo would be required to increase urinary thromboxane excretion twofold . 
quantitative structural analysis of peripheral airways and arteries in sudden fatal asthma . the peripheral airways and the adjacent muscular pulmonary arteries were studied by morphometric methods in the autopsy lungs of six asthmatic subjects who died suddenly during an asthma attack , and they were compared with those of six control subjects who died of other causes and had no history of respiratory diseases . bronchioles of asthmatic subjects had an increased amount of lumen occlusion ( p less than 0.01 ) , smooth muscle thickness ( p less than 0.001 ) , and inflammatory infiltrate ( p less than 0.001 ) , and both mononuclear cells and eosinophils contributed to this increased inflammation . the muscular pulmonary arteries adjacent to occluded and inflamed bronchioles did not have the morphologic features of chronic hypoxia , as shown by the normal medial and intimal thickness , but they had an important inflammatory process in their walls that was particularly marked at sites adjacent to airways . although the functional significance of these findings is unknown , they may be responsible in part for the gas exchange abnormalities observed in acute severe asthma . 
bronchiolar inflammation and fibrosis associated with smoking . a morphologic cross-sectional population analysis . the lungs of 42 smokers and 13 nonsmoking males of various ages who died suddenly and unexpectedly were examined grossly using gough-wentworth whole-lung sections and by microscopic planimetry to assess the severity and prevalence of emphysema . the bronchioles in representative histologic sections were evaluated for inflammation and epithelial metaplasia as well as for fibrosis and muscular hypertrophy . postmortem interviews with next of kin established a history of cigarette smoking and excluded possible occupational exposures to toxic or particulate inhalants . emphysematous changes were not prominent in members of the study group , but they tended to be more severe in smokers ( p = 0.059 ) and increased in severity with age ( p less than 0.001 ) . inflammatory changes ( so-called smoker 's bronchiolitis ) were evident in smokers of all ages , although they were significantly less prominent in the lungs of older smokers . on the other hand , respiratory and membranous bronchiolar wall fibrosis was increasingly evident in older smokers ( p less than 0.05 ) . muscular hypertrophy in the bronchiolar walls was significantly greater in smokers , but a change with age was not observed . these findings strongly suggest that bronchiolar fibrosis is associated with chronic cigarette use . these lesions occur independently of emphysema and may account for some of the subtle physiologic alterations observed in smokers . 
sweet 's syndrome with lung involvement . severe dyspnea and pulmonary infiltrates were associated with recurrent episodes of sweet 's syndrome ( acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis ) in a 54-yr-old woman with myelodysplasia . lung and skin biopsies revealed a sterile infiltration of the interstitial tissues by mature neutrophils . corticosteroid therapy resulted in rapid clinical improvement ; however , recurrent episodes were increasingly resistant to therapy , and she ultimately died from respiratory failure . sweet 's syndrome involving the lung is rare , with only two previously reported cases documented by lung biopsy . prompt recognition of sweet 's syndrome with lung involvement is important because of the potential for severe respiratory compromise . 
endothelium-derived relaxing factor inhibits hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in rats . the hypothesis that endothelium-derived relaxing factor ( edrf ) modulates hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction ( hpv ) was tested in isolated , blood-perfused rat lungs ventilated with gas mixtures of 21 % o2-5 % co2-74 % n2 ( normoxia ) or of 3 % o2-5 % co2-92 % n2 ( hypoxia ) ; 30 microm ng-monomethyl-l-arginine ( l-nmma ) , an inhibitor of edrf production , caused a reduction in the endothelium-dependent relaxant response to acetylcholine ( ach ) from 62 + / - 7 , 88 + / - 4 , and 100 + / - 4 % to 26 + / - 8 , 49 + / - 12 , and 75 + / - 7 % at ach concentrations of 1 , 10 , and 100 microm , respectively ( p less than 0.05 at all concentrations ) , indicating that l-nmma acts via the inhibition of edrf production . l-nmma induced a concentration-related augmentation in hpv of 20 + / - 5 , 32 + / - 8 , and 34 + / - 8 % at concentrations of 30 , 300 , and 1,000 microm ( p less than 0.05 , compared with a vehicle control group at all concentrations ) . the pressor response to a dose of angiotensin ii ( a-ii ) , which produced the same increase in pulmonary artery pressure as that induced by hypoxia , was also significantly augmented ( 2 + / - 0.6 % ) , but to a lesser extent . the augmentation of hpv by 30 microm l-nmma was completely reversed by 1 mm l-arginine ( a precursor of edrf ) , but not by d-arginine ( an isomer of l-arginine ) . one and 6 mm l-arginine , but not 6 mm d-arginine caused a significant inhibition of hpv by 20 + / - 2 and 47 + / - 12 % ( p less than 0.05 , compared with the vehicle control group ) and a small but not significant reduction in a-ii-mediated contraction . 
snoring and sleep architecture . the purpose of this study was to examine whether snoring adversely affects sleep architecture and sleep efficiency , and thus may account for the frequent complaints of daytime tiredness and fatigue expressed by heavy snorers . we recruited eight self-confessed heavy snorers and six self-confessed nonsnorers . all subjects had full nocturnal polysomnography , including continuous monitoring of snoring , which was quantified by counting the number of snores per hour of sleep ( snoring index ) , the number of snores per minute of snoring time ( snoring frequency ) , maximal and mean nocturnal sound intensity ( dbmax and dbmean , respectively ) . we found that even the self-confessed nonsnorers snored lightly , with significantly smaller frequency and index than the heavy snorers . sleep architecture was similar in both groups . distribution of snoring among the sleep stages differed for light and heavy snorers : light snorers snored uniformly throughout all sleep stages , whereas heavy snorers tended to snore more during slow-wave and rem sleep . snoring frequency and snoring index were similar during all sleep stages in light snorers , but they were higher during slow-wave sleep in heavy snorers . wakefulness time after sleep onset and sleep efficiency correlated significantly with the snoring index . we conclude that although snoring does not affect sleep architecture in general , it influences sleep efficiency and wakefulness time after sleep onset ; this may have an adverse effect on daytime function of heavy snorers . 
the current spectrum of peptic ulcer disease in the older age groups . not only has there been a relative increase in the prevalence of peptic ulcer disease ( pud ) among america 's older age groups , but the characteristics of pud in these patients differ significantly from those of the general population . seventy-two consecutive patients 60 years of age or older who underwent operation for pud between 1984 and 1989 were studied . the unusual features in these patients were 1 ) 92 per cent required emergency operation , 2 ) 57 per cent with perforated pud were female , 3 ) 85 per cent had duodenal pathology , 4 ) 28 per cent were currently taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents , and 5 ) over one half of all patients had serious postoperative complications . the increasing incidence and associated serious complications of pud in the elderly population present new challenges to physicians in the diagnosis and treatment of this disease . 
surgery for thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms . from july 1985 to july 1989 , loma linda university medical center evaluated 46 thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms ( taaas ) . forty patients were taken to surgery -- 18 ( 45 % ) were operated on an emergency basis for reasons including rupture ( 12 patients , 30 % ) , dissection ( 5 patients , 12.5 % ) , and severe pain ( 1 patient ) . the overall mortality for all operated patients was five ( 12.5 % -17 % for emergency surgery versus 9 % for elective surgery ) . nonfatal complications occurred in 40 per cent of patients ( 16 ) . the overall incidence of paraplegia was 10 per cent ( 4/40 ) , emergency patients 17 per cent ( 3/18 ) versus elective patients 4.5 per cent ( 1/22 ) . careful preoperative evaluation , standardization of operative technique , and good postoperative management have improved the outlook for these patients who otherwise would progress to eventual rupture and death . because mortality and morbidity are substantially reduced in elective patients , we recommend that all patients with taaas be evaluated for surgery as soon as diagnosis is made . 
survival after hypertonic saline resuscitation from hemorrhage . there has been recent increased interest in hypertonic saline resuscitation from shock and hemorrhage . this study was performed to evaluate the survival effects of hypertonic saline resuscitation . fifty male sprague-dawley rats of average weight of 325 grams were anesthetized with halothane . animals were subjected to blood loss of 21 ml/kg over 5 minutes . intravenous infusion was started 10 minutes after hemorrhage with either lactated ringer 's injection ( 42 ml/kg ) or three per cent nacl ( 10.64 ml/kg ) chosen randomly . these doses provided equal amounts of sodium . at the end of fluid infusion , blood samples were obtained for electrolyte determination . rats were observed 3 days for survival . survival was significantly lower in the three per cent nacl group compared with the lactated ringer 's group . it is probable that worsened outcome with three per cent nacl was associated with intracellular dehydration . 
sinistral ( left-sided ) portal hypertension . between 1953 and 1988 , 21 patients with splenic vein thrombosis ( svt ) , 12 of whom had sinistral portal hypertension ( sph ) were treated at our institution . svt was identified at autopsy in nine patients . twelve additional patients presented with sph : bleeding esophageal varices , svt and normal hepatic function . svt was caused by pancreatic neoplasm ( 5 ) , chronic pancreatitis ( 5 ) , and pancreatic pseudocyst ( 2 ) . svt was diagnosed by splanchnic angiography , splenoportography , computerized tomography , and ultrasonography . gastric varices were diagnosed by endoscopy ( 10 ) and barium swallow ( 2 ) . splenectomy was performed as primary therapy in 10 patients . three of these 10 had en block distal pancreatectomy . two high-risk patients had splenic artery embolization , one as a prelude to splenectomy performed 48 hours later and the other as definitive therapy . one splenectomized patient continued to bleed . no further bleeding occurred in 10 splenectomized patients in follow-up from 1 week to 14 years . sinistral portal hypertension is a clinical syndrome of splenic vein thrombosis caused by pancreatic pathology and manifests as bleeding gastric varices in patients with a patent portal vein and normal hepatic function . splanchnic arteriography is necessary for accurate diagnosis . splenectomy is the effective treatment of choice . 
fine needle aspiration of pancreatic fluid collections . the complications of pancreatitis remain diagnostic and therapeutic challenges . patients with simple pancreatitis , pancreatic necrosis , pseudocyst , noninfected fluid collection or abscess may all have similar clinical pictures . during the last decade computerized tomography ( ct ) - guided needle aspiration of peripancreatic fluid collections has been increasingly used as a diagnostic tool for pancreatic abscesses . this study reviewed the effectiveness of ct-guided needle aspiration of peripancreatic fluid collections at our institution in terms of diagnostic accuracy , correlation with eventual outcome , and safety . charts of patients who underwent needle aspiration of de novo peripancreatic fluid collections over the past 2 years were reviewed . thirty-five patients underwent 50 aspirations . eleven patients ( 31 % ) had a positive aspirate culture ; seven of these had a positive gram 's stain . there were no false positive gram 's stains but four false negatives . twenty-four ( 69 % ) patients had negative aspirate gram 's stains and cultures . patients with positive aspirate cultures were treated with antibiotics only ( 2 ) , ct-guided drain placement ( 7 ) , or surgical drainage ( 3 ) . the mortality related to each of these therapeutic modalities was 50 per cent , 0 per cent , and 33 per cent , respectively . of the 24 patients with negative aspirate cultures , five had no further treatment , 12 received antibiotics , and six underwent ct drain placement . all these patients survived . there was one false negative aspirate culture . this patient underwent delayed surgical drainage but expired . there were no major complications from ct-guided aspiration . ct-guided aspiration appears to be a safe and reliable method of diagnosing infection in peripancreatic fluid collections . 
partial splenic embolization . an effective alternative to splenectomy for hypersplenism . splenectomy for massive splenomegaly and hypersplenism carries a significant morbidity and mortality . we have used partial splenic embolization ( pse ) as an effective alternative to splenectomy . ten pse procedures were performed on nine patients without mortality and with minimal morbidity . the age of the patients ranged from 8 months to 32 years ( mean 14 years ) . the causes of splenomegaly and hypersplenism included cystic fibrosis with cirrhosis ( 2 ) , tyrosinemia and cirrhosis ( 1 ) ; thalassemia ( 1 ) , hemophilia with human immune deficiency virus infection ( 2 ) , chronic hepatitis with portal hypertension ( 1 ) , malignant histiocytosis ( 1 ) , and wiskott-aldrich syndrome ( 1 ) . all procedures were performed under local anesthesia with sedation . a percutaneous femoral artery approach to the splenic artery was used to deliver ivalon sponge particles ( 280-800 microns ) into the spleen . splenic infarction was assessed by postembolization angiograms . all of the patients except one demonstrated improvement of hematologic parameters . in one patient , however , cytopenia improved only after a second embolization . in the total series , there was an early mean rise of 8,600 / mm3 in the leukocyte count ( range 2,900-14 ,900 ) and 212,000 / mm3 in the platelet count ( range 30,000-718 ,000 ) . follow-up ranged from 4 months to 7 years . improvement of the blood picture has been persistent in seven of the eight patients who showed initial improvement . transient procedural complications included fever ( 5 ) , pleural effusion ( 2 ) , pneumonia ( 1 ) , and splenic abscess ( 1 ) . one patient had paralytic ileus lasting for 10 days and one patient developed a streptococcal peritonitis 3 weeks after embolization . no patient developed pancreatitis or vascular compromise of other abdominal viscera . 
one-stage repair of colovaginal fistula complicating acute diverticulitis . fourteen patients with colovaginal fistula secondary to sigmoid diverticulitis were seen between 1964 and 1988 . thirteen had undergone prior hysterectomy . three different operative approaches were used . three patients were treated with colostomy alone ; one died and the fistula persisted in one . five patients underwent staged procedures . one patient died of complications after the second stage of a planned three-stage procedure . four patients underwent a two-stage procedure ( fistula takedown , colectomy with colostomy and colostomy closure ) , all with good results . six patients were treated with one-stage fistula takedown , colectomy and primary anastomosis , without major complication . we advocate this as the procedure of choice and emphasize the following principles of epidemiology and management : 1 ) colovaginal fistula complicates diverticulitis in elderly women usually following hysterectomy ; this association may be a factor in etiology ; 2 ) vaginography is useful in diagnosis ; and 3 ) planned one-stage repair is the best surgical approach . 
the clinical significance of fluid collections in acute pancreatitis . computed tomography ( ct ) displays fluid collections in patients with acute pancreatitis as well defined intra - or extrapancreatic homogeneous areas with low attenuation numbers . we followed , prospectively , the clinical courses of 128 patients who had ct during an episode of acute pancreatitis , to determine the natural history and clinical significance of any fluid collections that developed . fluid collections were found in 48 ( 37 % ) of the 128 patients with pancreatitis . thirty-eight developed in the 86 ( 44 % ) patients with alcoholic pancreatitis , five in the 33 ( 15 % ) with biliary pancreatitis and five in the nine ( 55 % ) with other causes of pancreatitis ( excluding chronic pancreatitis , trauma , or malignancy ) . on clinical follow-up of the 48 patients with fluid collections , 21 patients required operation ; two died before an operation was done and 25 did not require operation . operations were done to treat pseudocysts ( 14 ) , abscess ( 5 ) , and necrosis ( 3 ) . one patient had an operation for a pseudocyst and an abscess . all 14 patients requiring operation for pseudocyst had collections greater than 7 cm and 13 of these patients had alcoholic pancreatitis . of the 25 patients not requiring operation , five were lost to follow-up , and 19 of the 20 who had spontaneous resolution of their fluid collection ( s ) had collections less than 6 cm in diameter . the eight patients who required operative pancreatic debridement for abscess or necrosis had multiple small fluid collections . in summary , fluid collections were found in one-third of patients with acute pancreatitis and were often associated with the development of local complications . 
left atrial to femoral arterial bypass using the biomedicus pump for operations of the thoracic aorta . left atrial to left femoral arterial bypass is an approach to operations of the thoracic aorta dating back to the late 1950s . since that time , various modifications of the basic bypass circuit have evolved . in addition , temporary bypass shunts have also been described in a variety of positions . the goals of bypass of the thoracic aorta regardless of the technique include prevention of distal hypoperfusion , which can lead to paraplegia , limb loss , multiple organ failure , and sometimes death . recently , there have been reports of the use of the biomedicus centrifugal pump in bypass circuits of the thoracic aorta . our series , as well as the success of others , using this variation of a traditional bypass circuit of the thoracic aorta , establishes the biopump 's capability of minimizing inherent complications in the bypass circuit . 
computerized tomography as an indicator of isolated mesenteric injury . a comparison with peritoneal lavage . this study evaluated 18 patients with blunt abdominal trauma who suffered isolated mesenteric injuries , diagnosed at exploratory laparotomy . thirteen had diagnostic peritoneal lavage ( pl ) as their initial diagnostic study , and five had computed tomography ( ct ) . all patients who had positive pl were explored emergently , undergoing repair of mesenteric injuries . three of the five patients with ct as initial studies had delayed recognition of their injuries due to incorrect initial interpretation of the scan in two , and a false negative scan in one . two of these patients developed intestinal infarction and required bowel resection . there were no complications in the pl group related to surgery ; morbidity was greater in those undergoing ct . we conclude that early laparotomy and repair of significant mesenteric injuries is necessary to reduce morbidity , and that pl is a more sensitive indicator of this injury than ct . 
hla-d locus associations in alopecia areata . drw52a may confer disease resistance . because predisposition to autoimmunity has been associated with hla-d alleles and alopecia areata is hypothesized to be a t-cell mediated autoimmune hair loss , we determined dr and dq alleles in 88 white and 10 american black patients with alopecia areata as well as controls with the use of restriction fragment length polymorphism typing with cdna probes . white patients with alopecia areata have an increase in the phenotype frequencies of dr4 and dqw8 and an increase in genotype frequencies of dr4 and dr5 ( now drw11 [ 5 ] ) . these associations are in agreement with those reported in two other studies but are not significant when corrected by the number of hla antigens tested . sixty-one percent of all patients with aa have dr4 and/or drw11 ( 5 ) specificities vs 40 % of controls , with more dr4 , drw11 ( 5 ) and dqw7 ( w3 ) , dqw8 ( w3 ) heterozygotes among patients . dqw6 ( w1 ) phenotype frequencies and drw52a phenotype and genotype frequencies are significantly decreased in patients with alopecia areata relative to controls . this highly significant negative association with the hla drb3 allele drw52a in whites persisted even when dr4 - or drw11 ( 5 ) - positive individuals were excluded from the patient and control groups . these data suggest that hla-dr4 and drw11 ( 5 ) with their associated dqw7 ( w3 ) and dqw8 ( w3 ) specificities may confer susceptibility to alopecia areata , while drw52a may confer resistance . 
anton 's syndrome in a patient with posttraumatic optic neuropathy and bifrontal contusions . we describe a patient who manifested anton 's syndrome after sustaining head trauma that resulted in optic nerve damage and bifrontal contusions . denial of monocular blindness , generalized anosognosia , and confabulation were prominent neurobehavioral features . anton 's syndrome is most commonly encountered in patients with bilateral occipital cortex lesions . patients previously described who demonstrated anton 's syndrome secondary to a peripheral lesion have had an associated delirium or profound dementia . our case demonstrates that anton 's syndrome may occur in association with blindness from a peripheral lesion , even in the absence of a delirium or significant dementia . we suggest that the bifrontal dysfunction may have been a critical factor in the production of anton 's syndrome . implications for the role of frontal lobe dysfunction in the genesis of anosognosia and confabulation are discussed . 
congenital monomelic hypertrophy with progressive myopathy . we describe a patient with congenital monomelic hypertrophy who later developed progressive footdrop due to a degenerative myopathy . the clinical , electrophysiologic , and pathologic features of the case are described and compared with those of a previously reported case . 
the neural substrate of memory impairment demonstrated by the intracarotid amobarbital procedure . the intracarotid amobarbital sodium ( amytal ) procedure ( iap ) was performed for 46 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy ( 21 with left seizure foci ; 25 with right seizure foci ) . after anteromedial temporal lobectomy , neuronal densities were established for hippocampal subfields ca1 , ca2 , and ca3 ; the hilum ; and the dentate granule cell layer . intracarotid amobarbital procedure memory results were related to ca3 neuronal loss only . patients who did not demonstrate memory after injection contralateral to the seizure focus had significantly fewer cells in ca3 than patients who did . additionally , a significant correlation was observed between the intracarotid amobarbital procedure memory examination raw score after injection contralateral to the seizure focus and ca3 cell density . using chi 2 analysis , significant differences were documented in the frequency with which memory was demonstrated after injection contralateral to the seizure focus for groups of patients classified by degree of ca3 neuronal loss . this finding supports prior research showing subfield specificity in some memory processes . 
memory complaints in older adults . fact or fiction ? complaints of poor memory by patients may be an early symptom of a pathologic process like alzheimer 's disease . it is therefore important to determine if patients ' complaints of memory impairments are an accurate reflection of real memory disturbance . the relationship between memory complaints ( metamemory ) and objective memory performance , mood , age , verbal intelligence , and sex was examined in a group of 199 healthy , community dwelling adults ( 39 to 89 years old ) . memory complaints demonstrated a stronger association with depressed mood than with performance on memory tests . increasing reports of depressive symptoms were associated with more overall memory complaints . verbal intelligence , age , and sex also contributed to memory complaints . patients with higher verbal intelligence reported fewer complaints and placed less emphasis on forgetting . older individuals reported greater frequency of forgetting and greater frequency of using memory techniques . specific types of memory complaints , seriousness of forgetting , and types of memory aids employed are also described . these results showed that self-rating of memory disturbance by older adults may be related more to depressed mood than to poor performance on memory tests . 
focal myositis . a new cause for the pediatric neck mass . focal myositis is an inflammatory pseudotumor of skeletal muscle that may involve the head and neck . it can closely mimic either a neoplastic or infectious process . we present the case of a 7-year-old boy with a 2-week history of a painful , unilateral neck swelling , fever , and torticollis . he failed to respond to antibiotic therapy and required an open neck exploration . an incisional biopsy of the indurated , inflammatory tissue adherent to his sternocleidomastoid muscle showed focal myositis . focal myositis is an unusual , but important possibility in the differential diagnosis of any neck mass and especially one in a child . although its cause is unknown , it is a self-limited disease and neither excisional biopsy nor radical resection is justified . 
endoscopic ethmoidectomy and maxillary antrostomy in immunodeficient patients . the efficacy of endoscopic sinus surgery was evaluated in 11 patients with diverse types of primary immunodeficiency disease and symptoms of chronic sinusitis . the postoperative symptoms and ability to eliminate antibiotics were used as outcome parameters . in two patients , the follow-up time was too short to assess therapeutic effectiveness . five of the remaining nine patients had total or significant resolution of symptoms . patients with transient immunodeficiency had the best resolution of symptoms . eight of the total 11 patients were treated with intravenous immunoglobulin preoperatively , and in five patients , the treatment was continued postoperatively . the ability to terminate gamma-globulin reflects not the success of the surgery , but the transient nature of some of the immunodeficiencies . 
cervical rotation flaps for midface resurfacing . the midface has long served as a focus for creativity in surgical reconstruction . full-thickness skin grafts , split-thickness grafts , and distal flaps have long been used to attempt to reduplicate existing anatomy in this area . recent reconstruction efforts have focused on the creative use of microvascular free flaps for this purpose . this article reports on the use of extensively developed regional rotation flaps as an excellent reconstructive modality for use in this area of the face . the details of surgical incisional planning are given . the nuances of surgical creation of these flaps and their rotation and suspension into place are given . the cases we have done using this technique for the past 3 years are reviewed . our present indications for use of these flaps and their limitations are given . 
assessment of middle-ear status during experimental otitis media using magnetic resonance imaging . magnetic resonance imaging has proved to be a useful tool for in vivo imaging of a variety of tissues . in this study , magnetic resonance imaging was applied to the middle ear of experimental animals with otitis media . results showed that the presence and distribution of effusion within the middle-ear space could be readily determined . moreover , following injection of gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid , a contrast agent , the inflamed middle-ear mucosa could be resolved . a comparison between magnetic resonance imaging and tympanometry with respect to the diagnosis of effusion showed that negative pressure tympanograms were equivocal ( 50 % effusion ) and that flat or normal tympanograms were in error in approximately 20 % of the observations . these data document a role for magnetic resonance imaging in in vivo studies of the pathogenesis of otitis media with effusion . 
clinical choices for circulatory assist devices . approximately 1.0 % of open heart surgery patients become unweanable from cardiac bypass during the surgical procedure . in addition , nearly 20 % of patients accepted for cardiac transplantation die while waiting for a donor heart . pulsatile pneumatic ventricular assist devices ( vads ) provide a realistic solution to these dilemmas . currently , there are five manufacturers who are competing for the major market share in the clinical use of these devices . novacor , thermetics , thoratec , symbion , and abiomed all have competitive vad systems . because no one system is optimal for all patients , the limitations , similarities , and strengths of each system should be known to enhance the patient 's outcome when using these devices . successful use of vad systems , either as a bridge to transplantation or to ventricular recovery , is best approached by adherence to strict patient selection . once instituted , vad management centers on detailed attention to anticoagulation and prompt diagnosis and treatment of various complications . 
effective endothelialization of polyurethane surfaces . response to shear stress and platelet adhesion . biomer and mitrathane are thromboresistant polyurethane ureas that are suitable for coating artificial valves . degeneration of the surface coatings , however , does occur over time , and in experimental animal studies adherent thrombi have been observed as a complication . in this study , morphometric techniques applied to scanning electron microscopy were used to assess whether vascular endothelial cells harvested from jugular veins of fetal lambs could be grown to confluence on these polyurethane surfaces , whether the monolayer would remain intact under conditions of shear stress ( 104 dynes/cm2 ) , and whether this would result in decreased platelet adherence of sheep platelets relative to nonendothelialized surfaces . the results have shown that both biomer and mitrathane could be endothelialized : 88.8 + / - 5.1 % of the biomer surface consisted of intact confluent endothelial cells , as did 95.45 + / - 1.7 % of the mitrathane surface . after 6 hr of shear stress , a significant reduction in this feature was observed ( p = 0.02 ) , but both materials still maintained a high percentage of confluent endothelial cells ( 78.65 % for biomer and 85.58 % for mitrathane ) . after 48 hr of shear stress , however , the percent confluence was similar to control values , which suggested new cell growth . endothelialized biomer compared with mitrathane had fewer adherent single platelets , or small or large aggregates ( p = 0.001 , p = 0.01 , and p = 0.05 , respectively ) ; this feature was not affected by shear stress . whereas endothelialization of the surface clearly decreased platelet adherence on mitrathane ( p = 0.01 ) , only a trend was seen with biomer . these studies therefore show that endothelialization of these polyurethane surfaces is feasible . 
gallbladder wall thickening ( congestive cholecystopathy ) in chronic liver disease : a sign of portal hypertension . a thickened gallbladder wall is often seen with ultrasound in alcoholic cirrhosis . hypoalbuminaemia is thought to be the cause since there is a strong association between bowel wall thickening and low serum albumin . to determine the role of portal hypertension in producing gallbladder wall thickening we studied 40 consecutive stable patients-37 with cirrhosis and three with portal hypertension due to primary biliary cirrhosis . ultrasound assessment of the gallbladder wall was made after an overnight fast using a technicare autosector . wall thickness 4 mm or greater was considered abnormal . twenty-seven patients had a thickened gallbladder wall and all had evidence of portal hypertension . hypoalbuminaemia was not an important factor since it was only present in six cases with thickened walls . in two cases reduction in portal pressure with oral propranolol was associated with a decrease in gallbladder wall thickness . these results suggest that portal hypertension , not hypoalbuminaemia , is the dominant factor causing gallbladder wall thickening in cirrhosis . ultrasound demonstration of gallbladder wall thickening in chronic liver disease should suggest the presence of portal hypertension . 
advances in data assessment . application to the etiology of nausea reported during chemotherapy , concerns about significance testing , and opportunities in clinical trials . typical inferential statistical procedures , such as the t-test and analysis of variance , compare differences in mean values of variables . this approach can sometimes obscure rather than illuminate research data . here we present and discuss alternative data analytic techniques . potential advantages of box plots over conventional t-tests for understanding data are shown by comparing the area under high and low frequencies from spectral curves of autonomic changes following chemotherapy treatment . typical t-tests provide information regarding statistical significance in terms of the differences in group means ; box plots and related exploratory techniques provide information regarding the characteristics of the distributions within the groups as well as examination of potential outliers . multivariate analysis of variance ( manova ) and other multivariate techniques are commonly used to deal with potentially complex data sets with multiple outcome measures . the potential advantages of visual clustering techniques such as star plots , chernoff faces , and andrew 's function plots are demonstrated by examining changes in facial pallor caused by chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting . typical manova approaches can identify potential differences in mean values between groups ; visual clustering approaches do this by graphically presenting complex interrelationships for individual cases . this approach enhances the visual interpretation of potential interactions that would be obscured by simply focusing on overall mean values . preliminary data from a meta-analysis on the effect of metoclopramide on chemotherapy-induced vomiting demonstrates the potential uses and advantages of this summary technique over simple tabular summaries . we found significant relationships between the effect size of the drug and variables such as the year of study publication and whether the publication was an article or an abstract . while none of these techniques are meant to replace traditional inferential statistics , they offer advantages in terms of data exploration and understanding relationships within data sets that are not clearly addressed by other methods . they are potentially valuable alternatives worthy of exploration . finally , we discuss issues of interim analyses and multiple endpoint assessment for clinical trials . 
risk factors for breast cancer . despite the numerous risk factors for the development of breast cancer that have been investigated , only a few demonstrate a clear association with breast cancer development . female gender and increasing age are the most important factors , followed by factors involving a woman 's menstrual , reproductive , and family history . the risks related to menstruation and reproduction are probably related to the duration of estrogenic breast stimulation . the relationship of family history and breast cancer risk is unclear , but there may be a true genetic basis . the previous occurrence of breast cancer ( invasive or in situ ) , the presence of proliferative pathological changes , especially with atypia , and the presence of other malignancies ( e.g. , primary ovarian and endometrial cancer ) are histological risk factors for the development of new or recurrent breast cancer . radiation exposure , the use of exogenous estrogens ( both estrogen replacement therapy and oral contraceptives ) , diet ( especially fat consumption ) , and alcohol intake may all play a role in cancer risk . certain medications as well as patient demographics may also have a weak association . cigarette smoking , caffeine consumption , and stress presently have little support for an association with breast cancer risk . it should be noted that in only one in four patients can breast cancer be accounted for by the known risk factors . this demonstrates that although presently known risk factors may help in screening for the early detection of breast carcinoma , in its possible prevention by modulation of influenceable factors , and in advising patients about their risks , these factors are merely strong associations with breast cancer incidence and not actual causations . the mechanisms of the development of breast cancer are as yet unknown . 
single versus double indicator dilution measurements of extravascular lung water . objective : to compare a simplified method of measuring extravascular lung water ( evlw ) using only a single indicator ( evlw-si ) with the standard double indicator dilution technique ( evlw-di ) . design : direct comparison of evlw-si with evlw-di in 18 critically ill patients . setting : a general medical icu in a university-affiliated hospital . patients : nine men and nine women , ages 19 to 80 yr . six patients were in shock ( four from septic shock ) , and 11 were in respiratory failure . interventions : evlw-di and cardiac output were measured in triplicate during injection of cold indocyanine green dye . cardiac output was calculated both from pulmonary artery ( copa ) and femoral artery ( cofem-di ) thermal dilution signals . evlw-si and cofem-si were also measured during three additional injections of cold saline using only thermal signals from the pulmonary and femoral arteries . order of measurements was random . evlw-si was measured in ten patients while blood was withdrawn through the femoral catheter and in ten patients without blood drawn through the femoral catheter . measurements and main results : a total of 84 comparisons were made . although the overall correlations were good ( r2 = .86 ) , evlw-si systematically overestimated evlw-di ( p less than .05 ) . this difference was greater when evlw-si was measured without blood withdrawal through the femoral catheter . in this subgroup , mean values for evlw by the two methods were within 20 % of one another in only two of ten patients , in contrast to the results in six of eight patients in which blood was withdrawn through the catheter . cofem-si and cofem-di also overestimated copa . conclusions : theoretically , neither injection of green dye nor blood withdrawal should be necessary during measurements of evlw-si , making it a simpler technique for bedside use than evlw-di . however , significant discrepancies exist between the two techniques . some of this difference is apparently due to technical factors related to catheter design . in any case , we can not recommend use of the single indicator dilution technique at present to estimate evlw . 
the deoxyribonucleic acid regions involved in the hormonal regulation of thyroglobulin gene expression . transcription of the thyroglobulin ( tg ) gene is stimulated by tsh via camp . we have characterized the sequence elements responsible for the hormone-dependent expression of tg gene in rat thyroid frtl-5 cells using internal deletion and linker-scanning mutants of the minimal tg promoter ( -170 basepairs ) fused with the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene . the tg gene is regulated by at least two regions located between -165 and -140 bp ( tg-iii ) and between -95 and -65 bp ( tg-i ) from the transcription initiation site . the intervening region can be deleted without significant effect on the promoter activity . either of the two regions alone does not promote hormone-dependent transcription . a dnase footprinting assay showed that tg-i and tg-iii are the principal protein-binding sites and that the proteins interacting with these two regions are induced by tsh or camp . these results suggest that the hormone-dependent expression of tg gene may be achieved by cooperative interaction of the proteins bound to tg-i and tg-iii . 
the effect of surgical stress on the in vitro metabolism of thyroxine by rat liver , kidney , and brain . in man , acute stress , like extensive surgery , leads to a rapid and prolonged decrease in serum t3 concentrations . the present study was carried out to investigate the mechanisms that underly the abrupt decrease in t3-neogenesis that occurs in response to acute surgical stress . male sprague-dawley rats , surgically thyroidectomized , and treated with 1.2 micrograms t4/100 g bw/day , underwent wide vertical and horizontal incisions extending into the abdominal cavity while receiving light ether anesthesia . different dietary manipulations were performed to investigate the superimposed influence of reduced carbohydrate and caloric intake on t3-neogenesis . the metabolism of 125i t4 labeled in its outer ( phenolic ) ring was investigated in liver , kidney , and brain homogenates of animals killed 48 h after surgery . in liver , values for the proportion of t4 degraded and the percent generation of t3 and iodide were unaffected by laparotomy . the percent t3 generation in experiments with 25 nm t4 concentration was 3.7 + / - 1.24 % ( mean + / - sd ) in fed control animals given free access to 5 % glucose , 3.4 + / - 0.67 % in unoperated controls given a restricted amount of chow and 5 % glucose , and 3.8 + / - 0.67 % in operated animals given free access to chow and 5 % glucose . as expected , t3 neogenesis in livers from unoperated animals was significantly reduced in rats fasted for 48 h and this reduction was similar in laparotomized rats fasted for 48 h after surgery . as in the liver , no effect of laparotomy on t4 metabolism in kidney and brain homogenates was observed . finally , serum total t4 and t3 concentrations were not affected by surgery . it is concluded that acute surgical stress in thyroidectomized t4 replaced rats does not influence t4 metabolism in liver , kidney , and brain homogenates or affect the serum t4 and t3 concentrations . since thyroid secretion of t4 ( and t3 ) was eliminated and careful attention was paid to caloric intake in this rat model , previously reported abnormalities in serum thyroid hormone concentrations and t3-neogenesis in various states of nonthyroidal illness in man and rat , including surgery , are probably contributed to by thyroid secretion of t4 ( and t3 ) and caloric deprivation , especially carbohydrate . 
role of endogenous angiotensin ii in the control of vasopressin secretion during hypovolemia and hypotension in conscious rabbits . in order to investigate the physiological role of angiotensin ii ( ang ii ) in the control of vasopressin ( vp ) secretion , the vp responses to hypotension induced by hemorrhage ( 20 ml/kg , n = 10 ) or nitroprusside infusion ( 1-10 micrograms/kg . min , n = 9 ) were studied with or without blockade of ang ii formation by the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril in conscious rabbits . administration of captopril ( 5 mg/kg , iv ) caused a small decrease in mean arterial pressure but did not enhance the hypotensive response to subsequent hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion . the renin response to both stimuli was enhanced by captopril , whereas the increase in plasma ang ii concentration was attenuated . plasma vp ( pavp ) concentration increased during hemorrhage ( 2.0 + / - 0.2-113 .6 + / - 47.7 pg/ml , p less than 0.01 ) and nitroprusside infusion ( 2.1 + / - 0.3-5 .1 + / - 1.0 pg/ml , p less than 0.01 ) . captopril did not change basal plasma pavp , nor did it attenuate the vp responses to hemorrhage or nitroprusside . indeed , captopril tended to enhance the vp responses to hemorrhage ( 2.3 + / - 0.3-147 .1 + / - 65.9 pg/ml ) and nitroprusside infusion ( 1.9 + / - 0.2-15 .4 + / - 6.0 pg/ml ) . the relationship between log pavp and mean arterial pressure during hemorrhage and nitroprusside infusion in the presence of captopril was not different than in the absence of captopril . these results indicate that in conscious rabbits , the renin-angiotensin system does not contribute to the increase in vp secretion during hypotension induced by hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion . 
hyponatremia-induced inhibition of magnocellular neurons causes stressor-selective impairment of stimulated adrenocorticotropin secretion in rats . chronically hyponatremic rats were subjected to various stressors in order to evaluate the possible contribution of magnocellular neurons to the regulation of acth secretion , since such rats have markedly inhibited secretion and synthesis of magnocellular arginine vasopressin ( avp ) and oxytocin ( ot ) . stress caused by a novel environment or by insulin-induced hypoglycemia resulted in moderate increases in plasma acth , which were of similar magnitude in both hyponatremic and normonatremic rats , and these stressors caused no increase in plasma avp and ot levels in either group of rats . however , when exposed to ether , hyponatremic rats exhibited a significantly blunted acth response compared to normonatremic controls ( 331 + / - 49 vs. 740 + / - 124 pg/ml ; p less than 0.01 , respectively ) , and plasma avp levels were markedly increased in the normonatremic , but not in the hyponatremic , rats . intravenous infusion of 2 m nacl also caused an acth release in hyponatremic rats that was significantly smaller than that in their normonatremic counterparts ( 228 + / - 52 vs. 479 + / - 85 pg/ml ; p less than 0.05 , respectively ) , and in this case both plasma avp and ot levels were markedly increased in the normonatremic , but not in the hyponatremic , rats . however , hyponatremic rats exhibited greatly increased plasma acth levels 2 and 96 h after adrenalectomy ( adx ) , which were statistically equivalent to the increases in acth levels in normonatremic rats after adx . seven days after adx parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus showed strongly increased crf-41 and avp-neurophysin , but not ot-neurophysin , immunoreactivities in both normonatremic and hyponatremic rats . these results show that parvocellular crf-41 / avp-producing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus are not inhibited by chronic hyponatremia , in contrast to magnocellular neurons , and suggest that acth secretion induced by ether or hypertonic saline , but not by novel environment or insulin-induced hypoglycemia , is partially mediated by magnocellular avp and/or ot . 
the rat glucagon gene is regulated by a protein kinase a-dependent pathway in pancreatic islet cells . a camp response element ( cre ) has been identified in the proximal 5 ' - flanking region of the rat glucagon gene , and activation of the camp-dependent pathway in fetal rat intestinal cells leads to an increase in the levels of glucagon mrna transcripts . in contrast , the human glucagon gene does not contain a similar cre , and the results of studies using immortalized rat and hamster islet cell lines have suggested that glucagon gene expression may not be regulated by camp . to reconcile these observations , we have studied the control of glucagon gene expression . incubation of primary rat islet cell cultures with forskolin in the presence of low ( 0.5 g/liter ) or high ( 2.0 g/l ) glucose resulted in a 2 - to 3-fold increase in the levels of glucagon mrna transcripts . forskolin also stimulated the secretion and synthesis of immunoreactive glucagon . the importance of the protein kinase-a-dependent pathway in the regulation of glucagon gene expression was also examined in hamster islet inr1-g9 cells . cotransfection of a glucagon-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) fusion gene containing the glucagon cre and a cdna encoding the catalytic subunit of protein kinase-a resulted in stimulation of glucagon-cat activity in hamster islet cells . catalytic subunit cotransfection also activated somatostatin-cat , but no activation of rsvcat was detected . the results of these experiments suggest that the rat glucagon gene is regulated by a protein kinase-a-dependent pathway in the endocrine pancreas . 
young 's syndrome ( obstructive azoospermia and chronic sinobronchial infection ) : a quantitative study of axonemal ultrastructure and function . the ultrastructure and function of nasal cilia and sperm tails were examined in 23 men with young 's syndrome and compared with data previously collected from 10 normal subjects . quantitative electron microscopic assessment showed that sperm tails from patients with young 's syndrome contained significantly fewer central pair microtubules , radial spokes , and inner dynein arms , and their cilia contained less inner dynein arms than normal subjects . the young 's syndrome patients had normal in vitro ciliary beat frequency ( 11.4 + / - 0.9 hz ) , and 12 of the 23 had normal nasal mucociliary clearance ( 15.0 + / - 5.0 minutes ) . however , the remaining 11 had markedly abnormal nasal mucociliary clearance in vivo . in these patients , the deficiency of ciliary inner dynein arms did not appear to affect ciliary function in vitro but may under mucus loading lead to abnormal in vivo ciliary function . the consistent abnormalities shown in cilia and sperm tails , though apparently minor , constitute a common factor in both the reproductive and respiratory tracts which may , in combination with abnormalities in the in vivo environment , lead to the features of young 's syndrome . 
microsurgical epididymovasostomy by tubule intussusception : a new technique in rat model . this experimental study on 15 adult male rats with bilateral epididymovasostomies evaluates a new technique of tubule intussusception as an improved form of end-to-end anastomosis . this paper describes in detail the steps in this technique and offers physiological , anatomical , and histological follow-up after 3 months . with this technique there is a 97 % patency rate and a 23.3 % incidence of macroscopic spermatic granuloma . complications are discussed in detail . 
edwards ' syndrome after the replacement of cryopreserved-thawed embryos . a case of edwards ' syndrome after the replacement of frozen-thawed embryos is reported . the presence of cardiac abnormalities and limb deformities raised the suspicion of chromosomal abnormality . the diagnosis of trisomy 18 was made by cytogenetic analysis of fetal blood from the umbilical vein . the chromosomal nondisjunction might have been spontaneous or because of freezing and thawing . if it occurred as a result of freezing and thawing , it is more likely that this was at the first cleavage division rather than the second meiotic division because the embryos were frozen at the late pronuclear stage . unfortunately , there were no karyotypic markers in the couple 's chromosomes to time the nondisjunction . the wisdom of using donor oocytes in an ovum donation program from patients with long-standing infertility is questioned . 
sympathetic neural adjustments to stress in physically trained and untrained humans . the purpose of this study was to determine if the state of physical training influences sympathetic neural activation during acute stress in humans . we recorded muscle sympathetic nerve activity ( microneurography of the peroneal nerve ) , arterial blood pressure , and heart rate in 12 highly trained , endurance athletes ( 25 + / - 1 years , mean + / - sem ) and 12 untrained subjects ( 27 + / - 1 years ) before ( supine rest control ) and during : 1 ) lower body negative pressure at -5 , -10 , -15 , and -20 mm hg ( orthostatic stress ) ; 2 ) isometric handgrip at 30 % of maximum ( exercise stress ) ; and 3 ) hand immersion in ice water , that is , the cold pressor test ( thermal stress ) . body weight was not different in the two groups , but the athletes had a lower body fat content ( 8.9 + / - 1.3 % versus 16.1 + / - 2.0 % , p less than 0.05 ) . during supine rest , muscle sympathetic nerve burst frequency ( 24 + / - 3 versus 24 + / - 2 bursts/min , athletes versus untrained subjects ) and burst incidence ( 36 + / - 3 versus 44 + / - 4 bursts/100 heart beats ) and arterial blood pressure were not different in the two groups , but heart rate was lower in the athletes ( 54 + / - 2 versus 67 + / - 3 beats/min , p less than 0.05 ) . 
vasopressin response in collecting ducts of rats resistant to mineralocorticoid hypertension . in previous studies we found that vasopressin stimulation of both cyclic amp ( camp ) formation in cortical collecting tubules ( cct ) and sodium reabsorption in isolated perfused kidneys was markedly exaggerated in rats with mineralocorticoid hypertension . in the present study , we tested the response ( camp accumulation ) of cortical and outer medullary collecting tubules ( omct ) to vasopressin in two rat models that are resistant to deoxycorticosterone acetate ( doca ) - induced hypertension , the wistar-furth strain and nacl-deficient rats . the blood pressure of normal outbred wistar rats rose to hypertensive levels ( systolic pressure more than 165 mm hg ) during a 5-week treatment with doca ( 10 mg/week ) and 1 % saline to drink . significant hypertrophy of the heart and kidneys was also observed . vasopressin ( 10 ( -8 ) m ) - induced camp formation was enhanced 3.4-fold in the cct ( omct unchanged ) of hypertensive rats compared with normotensive controls . significant hypertrophy ( as indexed by tubule diameter ) of the cct but not the omct was also observed in doca-salt hypertensive rats . restriction of dietary nacl ( 0.13 % in chow , tap water to drink ) completely prevented doca-induced hypertension , organ and cct hypertrophy , and enhancement of vasopressin-stimulated camp formation in the cct . in wistar-furth rats , doca-salt treatment did not alter blood pressure or cause significant organ hypertrophy . however , doca-salt treatment enhanced vasopressin-stimulated camp formation by 4.1-fold in cct of wistar-furth rats , with significant tubular hypertrophy in the cct but not the omct . we conclude that doca-induced hypertension and changes in cct function are dependent on excess dietary nacl . 
an evolutionary perspective on salt , hypertension , and human genetic variability . natural selection for electrolyte conservation has likely been the norm throughout human evolutionary history . however , the current patterns of excessive dietary salt intake create the potential for salt overload . under these conditions , hypertension may be considered an expected pathological response to an evolutionarily new constraint . the transatlantic middle passage may have created a genetic bottleneck for salt conservation in african-americans . although the initial consequences of this important historical event probably constricted genetic variability and further magnified the potential for salt-sensitive hypertension , the middle passage undoubtedly also served as a more generalized major source of environmental stress and may have stimulated subsequent hereditary diversity in the survivors of this holocaust and their descendants . accelerated rates of mutation , genetic recombination , and transposable genetic elements in conjunction with enhanced opportunities for gene flow , new selective pressures , and drift have all contributed to the tremendous heterogeneity of contemporary african-americans . it is unlikely that a single genetic event , even of the severity of the middle passage , can account comprehensively for the apparent susceptibility of this macroethnic group to high blood pressure and hypertension . 
interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress in young adults . the interaction of sodium sensitivity and stress-induced cardiovascular reactivity was studied in white and black young adults aged 18-23 years . the cardiovascular response to difficult mental arithmetic was measured before and after 14 days of oral sodium loading ( 10 g nacl/day added to the usual diet ) . a sodium-sensitive blood pressure response occurred in 18.4 % of whites and 37.3 % of blacks . a significant correlation between blood pressure change and sodium excretion occurred in the sodium-sensitive group ( r = - 0.28 , p less than 0.01 ) . high sodium intake did not augment blood pressure or heart rate response to the beta-adrenergic-mediated stimulus of mental arithmetic in the population , which was grouped by blood pressure , race , or sodium sensitivity . 
research and policy directions . salt and blood pressure . the relation between dietary intake of sodium chloride and blood pressure levels remains controversial . the critical questions concern whether there is a susceptible subgroup at risk of elevated blood pressure because of sodium chloride consumption . if there is such a subgroup , what is its size and how can it be identified ? further clinical trials are needed to determine the long-term effects of sodium chloride reduction on blood pressure . the risk of disease , including stroke and coronary heart disease , is linear with blood pressure levels . a small change in blood pressure can have a relatively large impact on disease , even within the normal range of blood pressure . 
percutaneous angioscopy during coronary angioplasty using a steerable microangioscope . the feasibility of using a flexible , steerable angioscope to perform coronary angioscopy before and after percutaneous coronary angioplasty was tested . the microangioscope fits through an 8f coronary angioplasty guiding catheter and contains a multifiber viewing bundle incorporated into the body of a 4.3 f balloon catheter with a central lumen for distal flushing and guide-wire passage . angioscopy was performed without complications 45 times in 24 patients , including 6 patients with stable and 18 with unstable angina . circumferential visualization of the target lesion was successful in 20 ( 83 % ) of the 24 patients and improved with operator experience . excellent visualization of the target lesion was achieved in 16 ( 94 % ) of the last 17 patients . plaque , thrombus and dissection were among the abnormal findings in the 20 patients ( 4 with stable , 16 with unstable angina ) in whom circumferential viewing of the target lesion was achieved . in four patients with restenosis after angioplasty , the lesion morphology was distinctly different from that of lesions in arteries without prior angioplasty . in patients with stable angina , no thrombus or dissection was seen by angiography or angioscopy before angioplasty . in patients with unstable angina , thrombus was detected more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty ( 8 versus 2 of 16 ) and after ( 15 versus 2 of 16 ) angioplasty . intimal dissection was also seen much more frequently by angioscopy than by angiography before angioplasty ( 7 versus 0 of 16 ) and after angioplasty ( 16 versus 7 of 16 ) . it is concluded that high resolution percutaneous coronary angioscopy can be performed safely in conjunction with balloon angioplasty . further investigation is needed before this diagnostic tool can be applied clinically . 
methodology of head-up tilt testing in patients with unexplained syncope prolonged 60 degree head-up tilt has been shown to be valuable in the investigation of unexplained syncope , diagnosing neurally mediated bradycardia/hypotension or malignant vasovagal syndrome . to evaluate the methodology of tilt testing , the following were examined : reproducibility of results , tilt duration , angle of tilt , method of tilt support and effect of age in patients and control subjects . seventy-one patients with recurrent unexplained syncope underwent 60 min of 60 degree tilt ; 53 ( 75 % ) had an abnormal test with vasovagal syncope at 24 + / - 10 min ( mean + / - sd ) . tilting to 60 degrees resulted in an abnormal test in only 2 ( 7 % ) of 27 control subjects without cardiovascular symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) ; and 5 ( 15 % ) of 34 patients with syncope and documented conduction tissue disease ( p less than 0.001 ) . of 15 youthful fainters , 3 ( 20 % ) had vasovagal reactions as did 1 ( 8 % ) of 12 asymptomatic youthful control subjects . these 12 control subjects also underwent tilting with a saddle support and 7 ( 67 % ) had vasovagal reactions . it is concluded that the duration of tilting at 60 degrees should be 45 min ( mean time to syncope +2 x sd in the 53 patients with abnormal results ) . twenty percent of patients with an abnormal tilt test may not demonstrate syncope with repeat tilting . saddle tilt testing in unexplained syncope may result in a loss of specificity . tilting at less than 60 degrees results in a loss of sensitivity . head-up tilt may be less useful in youthful subjects with vasovagal syncope than in other subjects . 
lack of prognostic value of syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome may be considered a premonitory event heralding the future development of sudden death . therefore , the clinical and electrophysiologic data of 101 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome referred for invasive evaluation of known arrhythmias were reviewed to assess the incidence and clinical relevance of syncope . thirty-six patients reported the occurrence of one or more syncopal episodes ( group 1 ) and 65 patients had no syncope ( group 2 ) . these two groups did not differ significantly with regard to age , gender , incidence and characteristics of arrhythmia , clinical history , frequency of arrhythmic events and presence of associated cardiac disease . there were 10 patients in group 1 and 12 in group 2 who had ventricular fibrillation . there were no statistical differences between the two groups with respect to the effective refractory period of the right atrium , atrioventricular node , accessory pathway and right ventricle . furthermore , no differences between the two groups were noted with respect to cycle length of circus movement tachycardia , mean heart rate during atrial fibrillation , and minimum rr interval during atrial fibrillation . in addition , the accessory pathway location was not significantly different between group 1 and group 2 . the occurrence of syncope could not be predicted from any electrophysiologic finding and this symptom had a low sensitivity and specificity for recognition of dangerous rapid heart rates . furthermore , the prognostic value of syncope was less accurate and predictive than the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation and the anterograde effective refractory period of the accessory pathway for aborted sudden death occurrence . 
electrophysiologic findings after fontan repair of functional single ventricle . cardiac arrhythmias are well recognized sequelae of the fontan operation for complex congenital anomalies . in this study the electrophysiologic effects of the fontan procedure were evaluated in 30 patients who underwent cardiac catheterization with electrophysiologic study 1.9 + / - 1.3 years ( mean + / - sd ) after modified fontan repair for functional single ventricle . abnormalities of sinus node or ectopic pacemaker automaticity were detected in 50 % ( 15 patients ) by determination of a prolonged corrected sinus node or pacemaker recovery time . total sinoatrial conduction time was prolonged in 50 % of the patients with normal sinus rhythm . sinus node or ectopic atrial pacemaker function was entirely normal in only 43 % of patients . the predominant atrial rhythm was normal sinus in 70 % and ectopic atrial or junctional in 30 % . abnormalities of atrial effective and functional refractory periods were noted in 43 % of patients and were most pronounced at faster paced cycle lengths . atrial endocardial catheter mapping revealed intraatrial conduction delays between adjacent sites in 76 % of the patients tested and in eight of nine patients with inducible intraatrial reentry . programmed atrial stimulation induced nonsustained supraventricular arrhythmias in 10 % of the 30 patients and sustained arrhythmias in 27 % . intraatrial reentry was the most common inducible arrhythmia and was present in seven of the eight patients with sustained and two of the three patients with nonsustained atrial arrhythmias . atrioventricular conduction abnormalities were noted in 10 % ( three patients ) . no patient had inducible ventricular arrhythmias with programmed ventricular stimulation . the electrophysiologic findings after fontan repair include abnormal sinus node function , prolonged atrial refractoriness , delayed intraatrial conduction and inducible atrial arrhythmias . 
clinical and angiographic determinants of primary coronary angioplasty success . m-heart investigators . clinical and anatomic determinants of the initial success of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty were prospectively evaluated in 826 patients enrolled in the multi-hospital eastern atlantic restenosis trial ( m-heart ) . the 639 men and 187 women ranged in age from 31 to 85 years . successful angioplasty ( residual stenosis less than 50 % and no major complications ) was achieved in 886 ( 88.6 % ) of 1,000 lesions . success rates were uniform among the eight individual centers . outcome was not influenced by gender , age or other clinical features , including severity and duration of angina , prior myocardial infarction , rest pain , transient st segment elevation , history of smoking or diabetes . in contrast , procedural outcome was significantly associated with lesion-specific angiographic factors . stenoses 60 % to 74 % , 75 % to 89 % , 90 % to 99 % and 100 % were associated with success rates of 96 % , 90 % , 84 % and 69 % , respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) . angioplasty was less successful in calcified than in noncalcified lesions ( 82 % versus 90 % , p less than 0.01 ) , in thrombotic than in nonthrombotic lesions ( 82 % versus 90 % , p less than 0.05 ) and in lesions in the right coronary artery than in other vessels ( 84 % versus 90 % , p less than 0.01 ) . outcome was not related to other anatomic variables , including lesion location ( proximal versus distal ) , vessel size , eccentricity , stenosis length or translesional gradient . by multivariate logistic regression , preangioplasty percent stenosis , right coronary artery location and lesion calcification were demonstrated to be significant independent predictors of angioplasty success . alternative clinical and angiographic variables did not contribute to this regression model . 
effect of lovastatin on intimal hyperplasia after balloon angioplasty : a study in an atherosclerotic hypercholesterolemic rabbit . restenosis , the major limitation of balloon angioplasty , is the result of intimal hyperplasia after the procedure . lovastatin , a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a ( hmg-coa ) inhibitor , may influence intimal hyperplasia by lowering serum cholesterol and by blocking deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) synthesis . to determine whether lovastatin reduces intimal hyperplasia , a prospective , randomized blinded study was performed in 60 atherosclerotic new zealand white male rabbits . atherosclerosis was produced by air desiccation injury followed by a 28 day diet of 2 % cholesterol and 6 % peanut oil that was terminated before balloon angioplasty was performed . angioplasty could not be performed in 14 rabbits with bilateral femoral artery occlusion , and in one rabbit the procedure was a technical failure . forty-five rabbits underwent balloon angioplasty performed with use of a 2.5-mm balloon inflated to 10 atm for three 1 min dilations at 1 min intervals . seven rabbits died during the procedure . thirty-eight rabbits were randomized to either a lovastatin group ( 6 mg/kg body weight per day ) or a control group . angioplasty was performed on all patent vessels ( n = 54 ) ; the procedure was bilateral in 16 rabbits and unilateral in 22 . fifteen lovastatin-treated and 15 control rabbits survived 39 days after angioplasty and were then killed . angiograms , obtained before and 10 min and 39 days after balloon angioplasty , were read with use of electronic calipers by two observers who had no knowledge of treatment data . after the rabbits were killed , vessels were pressure perfused using a standardized protocol to maintain in vivo dimensions for blinded quantitative histologic analysis . 
the flail mitral valve : echocardiographic findings by precordial and transesophageal imaging and doppler color flow mapping . to determine the echocardiographic and doppler characteristics of mitral regurgitation associated with a flail mitral valve , precordial and transesophageal echocardiography with pulsed wave and doppler color flow mapping was performed in 17 patients with a flail mitral valve leaflet due to ruptured chordae tendineae ( group i ) and 22 patients with moderate or severe mitral regurgitation due to other causes ( group ii ) . echocardiograms were performed before or during cardiac surgery ; cardiac catheterization was also performed in 28 patients ( 72 % ) . mitral valve disease was confirmed at cardiac surgery in all patients . by echocardiography , the presence of a flail mitral valve leaflet was defined by the presence of abnormal mitral leaflet coaptation or ruptured chordae . using these criteria , transesophageal imaging showed a trend toward greater sensitivity and specificity than precordial imaging in the diagnosis of flail mitral valve leaflet . by doppler color flow mapping , a flail mitral valve leaflet was also characterized by an eccentric , peripheral , circular mitral regurgitant jet that closely adhered to the walls of the left atrium . the direction of flow of the eccentric jet in the left atrium distinguished a flail anterior from a flail posterior leaflet . by transesophageal echocardiography with doppler color flow mapping , the ratio of mitral regurgitant jet arc length to radius of curvature was significantly higher in group i than group ii patients ( 5.0 + / - 2.3 versus 0.7 + / - 0.6 , p less than 0.001 ) ; all of the group i patients and none of the group ii patients had a ratio greater than 2.5 . 
outcome probabilities and life history after surgical mitral commissurotomy : implications for balloon commissurotomy . from 1967 to 1988 , 339 patients with mitral stenosis underwent surgical commissurotomy , 103 with a closed and 236 with an open technique . the 1 month and 1 , 5 , 10 and 20 year overall survival rate was 99.7 % , 99 % , 95 % , 87 % and 59 % , respectively , and the technique ( open versus closed ) was not a risk factor . technique was also not a risk factor for a second mitral commissurotomy , subsequent mitral valve replacement , thromboembolism or poor functional status . risk factors were older age at commissurotomy , black race , higher pulmonary vascular resistance , mitral leaflet calcification , left ventricular enlargement and postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence . the closed technique was a risk factor for mitral incompetence immediately after commissurotomy , but important incompetence developed in only 2 of the 103 patients undergoing closed commissurotomy . mitral valve replacement was not required within 10 years in 78 % of patients and within 20 years in 47 % . despite some increased prevalence of postcommissurotomy mitral incompetence and particularly in view of the considerable long-term likelihood of mitral valve replacement , initial therapy for most patients with mitral stenosis should probably be surgical closed ( or percutaneous balloon ) mitral commissurotomy . the equations developed in the present study can be used to predict and compare outcome probability after percutaneous balloon commissurotomy with that after surgical commissurotomy and to compare these with outcome probability after mitral valve replacement . 
percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted balloon angioplasty : initial clinical and quantitative angiographic results in 50 patients . the initial clinical experience and quantitative angiographic results of percutaneous coronary excimer laser-assisted balloon angioplasty are described for 55 lesions in 50 patients . with use of a xenon chloride ( 308 nm ) excimer laser generator and 1.5 to 1.75 mm catheters , excimer laser angioplasty was attempted at 135 ns pulse width , 25 to 40 hz repetition rate , 2 to 5 s laser delivery time and 30 to 60 mj/mm2 energy fluence . laser success ( greater than 20 % reduction in absolute percent diameter stenosis ) was achieved in 41 ( 75 % ) of 55 lesions , with 100 % subsequent balloon angioplasty success ( less than 50 % residual stenosis ) . by quantitative digital caliper technique , the percent diameter stenosis ( mean + / - se ) was reduced from 81 + / - 1 % to 50 + / - 3 % after excimer laser angioplasty ( p less than 0.001 ) and to 20 + / - 1 % after balloon angioplasty ( p less than 0.001 ) ; minimal luminal diameter increased from 0.56 + / - 0.04 to 1.46 + / - 0.08 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) and 2.03 + / - 0.07 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) , respectively . by videodensitometric techniques , the percent area stenosis decreased from 86 + / - 2 % to 54 + / - 3 % after excimer angioplasty ( p less than 0.001 ) and to 26 + / - 3 % after balloon angioplasty ( p less than 0.001 ) . there were no perforations , need for emergency bypass surgery or deaths . the overall incidence of abrupt closure ( 3.6 % ) , dissection ( 1.8 % ) , embolization ( 1.8 % ) , filling defect ( 6 % ) , myocardial infarction ( 5.5 % ) , side branch occlusion ( 3.6 % ) or spasm ( 3.6 % ) was infrequent and more related to subsequent balloon angioplasty than to the laser procedure . 
is routine preoperative hemodynamic evaluation of nonagenarians necessary ? an incidence of co-morbid cardiac disease in the elderly surgical patient as high as 66 % has been previously reported . even in the absence of clinically significant cardiac disease , advanced age alone is often considered sufficient indication for swan-ganz placement , hemodynamic evaluation , adjustment of fluid states , and inotropic support . yet data clearly documenting the need for this evaluation and therapy are difficult to obtain . all major general surgical and orthopedic operations in non-agenarians were reviewed in our institution from july 1 , 1987 through december 31 , 1988 . fifty-one procedures were performed on 46 patients . none of these patients had preoperative swan-ganz catheterization or hemodynamic evaluation . eighteen general surgical , 30 orthopedic , 2 neurosurgical , and 1 gynecological procedures were performed . forty-three were performed under general anesthesia , 7 under spinal anesthesia , and 1 with local anesthesia . seven out of 51 patients ( 14 % ) experienced major complications , and 16 out of 51 ( 31 % ) experienced minor complications . thirty-day mortality was 0 % , and 6-month survival was 92 % . only one complication occurred within 48 hours of surgery that might possibly have been prevented with hemodynamic evaluation , adjustment of fluid status , inotropic support , and intensive care unit monitoring . 
patients in a persistent vegetative state attitudes and reactions of family members . patients in a persistent vegetative state ( pvs ) constituted approximately 3 % of the population in four milwaukee nursing homes . in order to understand family members ' attitudes and reactions toward such patients , 33 ( 92 % ) of 36 family members of patients in pvs contacted were studied . the age of the patients ranged from 19 to 95 with a mean age of 73.4 + / - 17.2 years , and family members ' ages ranged from 41 to 89 with a mean age of 61.8 + / - 3.3 years . the etiology of the pvs varied from dementia to cerebral trauma . the mean duration of the pvs was 54 + / - 8.4 months ( range 12 to 204 ) . family members reported that they visited patients 260 times during the first year following the onset of the pvs and were still visiting at a rate of 209 visits yearly at the time of the interview . there was no significant correlation between the frequency of the family members visits and the duration of the pvs , the patient 's or family member 's age , or the family member 's relationship to the patient . ninety percent of patients were considered by family members to have some awareness of pain , light or darkness , environment , taste , verbal conversation , or the family member 's presence . most family members thought they understood the patient 's medical condition , and the majority did not expect the patient to improve . nevertheless , the majority of family members wanted the patient to undergo therapeutic interventions , including transfer to the acute hospital and surgery . 
erythropoietin response to anemia as a function of age . the erythropoietin ( epo ) response to anemia was assessed for 244 subjects aged 1-64 years ( mean 45.2 years ) and 121 subjects aged 65-94 years ( mean 68.3 years ) . subjects included non-anemic individuals as well as those with anemia of various etiologies , excluding renal disease and pregnancy . significant inverse correlations between serum immunoreactive epo and hematocrit were noted for both groups . regression lines failed to show a significantly lower slope or y-intercept for older compared to younger subjects . epo levels were not significantly lower for older compared to younger subjects when controlled for hematocrit level . these results suggest that the epo response to anemia in older subjects is similar to that of younger subjects . 
separation and characterization of saponins with adjuvant activity from quillaja saponaria molina cortex . saponins were purified from quillaja saponaria molina bark by silica and reverse phase chromatography . the resulting purified saponins were tested for adjuvant activity in mice . several distinct saponins , designated qs-7 , qs-17 , qs-18 , and qs-21 , were demonstrated to boost antibody levels by 100-fold or more when used in mouse immunizations with the ag bsa and beef liver cytochrome b5 . these purified saponins increased titers in all major igg subclasses . to determine optimal dose in mice for adjuvant response , qs-7 and qs-21 were tested in a dose-response study in intradermal immunization with bsa in mice ; for both of these purified saponins , adjuvant response ( determined by stimulation of elisa titers to bsa ) neared maximum at doses of 5 micrograms and was shown to plateau up to the highest dose tested , 80 micrograms . these purified saponins vary considerably in their toxicity , as assessed by lethality in mice ; the main component , qs-18 , being the most toxic . saponins qs-7 and qs-21 showed no or very low toxicity in mice , respectively . none of these saponins stimulated production of reaginic antibodies . the monosaccharide composition of these saponins showed similar but distinct compositions with all four containing fucose , xylose , galactose and glucuronic acid . predominant differences were observed in the quantities of rhamnose , arabinose , and glucose . monomer m.w. ( determined by size exclusion hplc ) were determined to range from 1800 to 2200 . 
effects of site-specific mutations on biologic activities of recombinant human il-6 . to examine structure-activity relationships of human il-6 , we have determined the effects of specific mutations on the biologic activity of a human ril-6 expressed in bacteria . three types of mutants were examined : 1 ) a variant that contains serines in place of the four naturally occurring cysteines ; 2 ) a series of cysteine-containing deletion mutants , each having a single internal 20 amino acid deletion ; and 3 ) a cysteine-free variant containing a single 20 amino acid deletion . the mutants of the second type constitute a set of nonoverlapping , adjacent deletions spanning amino acids 4 through 183 of the 184 amino acids in natural human il-6 . all of the mutants were expressed , along with the full length , cysteine-containing analogue , in escherichia coli as fusion proteins , joined to beta-galactosidase through a collagen linker . this system allows microgram quantities of the ril-6 variants to be partially purified from small bacterial cultures without chromatographic or refolding steps . each of the ril-6 variants was released from the beta-galactosidase fusion protein with collagenase , and the recovered ril-6 was quantitated by laser densitometry of coomassie-stained , sds polyacrylamide gels . the sp . ac . of each of the ril-6 variants was determined using four assays : induction of igm secretion from an ebv transformed human b cell line , induction of fibrinogen secretion from a human hepatoma cell line , induction of fibrinogen secretion from a rat hepatoma cell line , and induction of proliferation of a murine hybridoma cell line . replacement of cysteines with serines reduced activity relative to cysteine-containing ril-6 to about 20 % in the rat hepatoma assay and about 3 % in the mouse hybridoma assay , whereas activity in both of the human cell lines was reduced to less than 0.1 % . these data suggest that the murine and rat cell lines are less selective than the human cell lines in their requirements for recognition of biologically active il-6 . each of the deletions , except that of amino acids 4 through 23 , resulted in loss of activity in all four assays . these results suggest that the information necessary for activity is not contained within any one portion of the il-6 molecule , but rather that multiple segments of the protein are required for each of the biologic activities that we tested . 
elevated expression of the genes for transforming growth factor-beta 1 and type vi collagen in diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . full-thickness skin biopsies obtained from four patients with rapidly progressive diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) were examined for the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) , type vi collagen , and fibronectin genes employing immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridizations . the immunohistochemical studies demonstrated increased deposition of tgf-beta , type vi collagen , and fibronectin epitopes in the extracellular matrix of the fascia in comparison to the adjacent dermis in the same specimens . increased levels of type vi collagen mrna , as evidenced by positive in situ hybridization signals with an alpha 2 ( vi ) collagen cdna , were also found in the fascia in comparison with the dermis . in situ hybridizations of affected fascia with a human sequence-specific tgf-beta 1 cdna demonstrated numerous fibroblasts displaying positive hybridization signals indicative of high levels of transcripts for this cytokine . in contrast , no hybridization signal for tgf-beta 1 was detected in fibroblasts in the adjacent dermis . these findings suggest that tgf-beta 1 may play an important role in the development of the connective tissue alterations present in ems-associated diffuse fasciitis . 
the use of l-dopa and carbidopa in metastatic malignant melanoma . a combination of l-dopa and carbidopa was given orally to 17 patients with metastatic melanoma . maximum tolerated oral doses were given , up to 4 grams daily . no response was seen in 15 patients evaluable for response . toxicity was considerable , with seven of 17 patients ( 41 % ) stopping treatment because of unacceptable gastrointestinal toxicity or postural hypotension . contrary to previous anecdotal reports , there was no evidence that l-dopa/carbidopa treatment resulted in accelerated progression of metastatic melanoma . orally administered l-dopa/carbidopa is ineffective as therapy for advanced melanoma when maximum tolerated doses are used . 
intrinsic vasodilation protects wistar kyoto rats from progressive glomerulosclerosis after unilateral nephrectomy . genetically determined differences in functional and structural determinants that govern the development of progressive glomerulosclerosis ( gs ) were studied in aging sham-operated or unilaterally nephrectomized male rats of two strains . wistar rats showed an increase of proteinuria and gs with age , which was enhanced by unilateral nephrectomy ( un ) . in contrast , intact and un wistar kyoto rats did not show an increase of proteinuria with age and 7 months after un , no gs was seen in these rats . systemic blood pressure was comparable in both strains and was not affected by un . functional studies in a separate group of rats 1 month after un showed an identical increase in glomerular filtration rate in both strains as compared with sham-operated controls . the wistar rats did not show an effect of un on renal plasma flow , and consequently , there was an increase in filtration fraction , in contrast to wistar kyoto rats , which showed an increase in renal plasma flow with an unchanged filtration fraction . glomerular volume was increased in both strains at 1 month and 7 months after un . mesangial expansion was not observed at 1 month after un in either strain , which indicates that this is not a decisive factor in the development of gs . these data indicate that the genetically determined susceptibility to the development of gs in these two rat strains may be related to the degree of vasoconstriction , whereas glomerular volume expansion per se does not lead to gs but can well be a consequence of hyperfiltration . these studies are concordant with previous studies that revealed the role of hemodynamics in the pathogenesis of gs irrespective of glomerular expansion . 
chronic hypomagnesemia caused by cisplatin : effect of calcitriol . a group of six patients with hypomagnesemia ( serum magnesium less than or equal to 0.5 mmol/l ) , previously given treatment with cisplatin for ovarian or testicular cancer , received calcitriol at a dose of 0.5 to 1.0 microgram/day for a period of 4 weeks to determine whether treatment with this vitamin d metabolite could improve their hypomagnesemia . in response to treatment , the serum magnesium concentration fell progressively in association with a rise in serum and urinary calcium levels and a decrease in parathyroid hormone level . in a single previous report , active vitamin d metabolites markedly improved renal magnesium wasting . however , in the present study , increases in serum and urinary calcium levels and suppression of parathyroid hormone , factors known to decrease magnesium reabsorption , presumably overwhelmed any direct effect calcitriol may have had to enhance magnesium reabsorption , so that the net effect was a marked exacerbation of the renal magnesium wasting . 
organic dust toxic syndrome : an acute febrile reaction to organic dust exposure distinct from hypersensitivity pneumonitis . organic dust toxic syndrome is a term recently coined to describe a noninfectious , febrile illness associated with chills , malaise , myalgia , a dry cough , dyspnea , headache and nausea which occurs after heavy organic dust exposure . organic dust toxic syndrome shares many clinical features with acute farmer 's lung and other forms of hypersensitivity pneumonitis , including the presence of increased numbers of neutrophils in bronchoalveolar lavage . however , organic dust toxic syndrome differs from acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis in several respects : the chest x-ray does not show infiltrates , severe hypoxemia does not occur , prior sensitization to antigens in the organic dust is not required and there are no known sequelae of physiological significance , such as the recurrent attacks and the pulmonary fibrosis which may be seen with chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis . organic dust toxic syndrome is thought to be much more common than farmer 's lung . it is important for clinical and investigational purposes that organic dust toxic syndrome be distinguished from acute farmer 's lung . 
carbamazepine overdose : a prospective study of serum levels and toxicity . a cooperative prospective study of consecutive cases of carbamazepine overdose was conducted to determine if serum levels were predictive of toxicity and if risk factors such as age , chronic exposure , or previous disorder or cardiovascular disease could be used as prognostic indicators . seventy-three consecutive cases were collected from two regional certified poison control centers from january 1989 to august 1989 . there were 25 exposures in children less than 6 yrs. , 11 exposures in adolescents , and 37 exposures in adults . ten adult cases and one adolescent case were excluded from the study due to the presence of coingestants or inadequate information . peak measured serum levels ranged from 0.3 to 56 mcg/ml . using the presence of coma , seizure activity or respiratory depression requiring mechanical ventilation as measures of toxicity , we found poor correlation between rising serum levels of carbamazepine and toxicity . increased serum levels of carbamazepine did appear to correlate with increased hospital stay , but not with icu stay . history of a seizure disorder appears to pose increased risk of a seizure in carbamazepine overdose . in this series chronic exposure to carbamazepine did not appear to increase the risk of coma or respiratory depression for a given toxic serum level and may add some protective effect . serum levels below 40 mcg/ml do not appear to accurately predict the severity of toxicity . cardiac conduction defects were rare ( one child ) . anticholinergic findings , as evidence by decreased bowel motility and sinus tachycardia were common . previous cardiovascular disease and age did not appear to be important prognostic indicators . 
the clinical course of residual carotid arterial disease . over a 5-year period 642 patients underwent 686 carotid endarterectomies with patch closure and intraoperative surveillance with continuous-wave doppler . the perioperative stroke rate was 1.5 % . patients were screened with duplex scans immediately after operation for the presence of residual carotid lesions , and followed every 3 to 6 months for either the development of a true recurrent lesion or a change in a residual one . five hundred thirty-nine arteries ( 84 % ) had no postoperative abnormalities . the incidence of recurrent carotid lesions in this groups was 1.5 % , 3.4 % , and 5.2 % at 1 , 2 , and 3 years , respectively . the incidence of symptoms in this group was 0.2 % , 0.7 % , and 1.4 % at 1 , 2 , and 3 years , respectively . the earliest recurrence or symptom occurred 8 months from operation . one hundred forty-seven arteries had residual lesions that were more common when either a temporary shunt was used or the operation was carried out above the hypoglossal nerve or below the omohyoid muscle . sixty-one patients who had plaque proximal to the arteriotomy without a significant stenosis were followed an average of 21 months . there were no changes in plaque morphology and no proven symptoms related to the residual lesion . fifty-six patients with both plaque and significant hemodynamic abnormalities in the carotid bulb were followed an average of 18 months . seven of these patients ( 12.5 % ) had either a significant deterioration of the lesion or a symptom from it . each event occurred within 6 months of operation . thirty patients had significant flow abnormalities but no visible plaque . none of these lesions deteriorated . although common , residual carotid lesions are benign unless the lesion is characterized by both plaque within the artery and a hemodynamically significant stenosis . these lesions should be further investigated and treated when discovered . 
long-term follow-up of patients operated on for recurrent carotid stenosis . we reviewed our experience with 29 operations for recurrent carotid stenosis in 27 patients who underwent both their primary carotid endarterectomy and their reoperations at our institution . these 27 patients represent 4 % of the 667 patients who underwent primary carotid endarterectomies at our institution and who are included in our carotid follow-up registry . reoperation was prompted by recurrent symptoms in 19/29 ( 65.5 % ) cases . comparison of long-term stroke prevention in those patients who did ( 84 % at 5 years , 78.6 % at 10 years ) and did not ( 90.3 % at 5 years , 83.6 % at 10 years ) develop recurrent stenosis requiring reoperation revealed no statistically significant difference ( p = 0.48 ) when measured from the time of primary operation . the perioperative stroke and death rates for reoperation ( 3.4 % and 0 % ) were acceptable . we conclude that with our acceptably low perioperative stroke morbidity ( 3.4 % ) , surgery for recurrent carotid stenosis in symptomatic patients or in asymptomatic patients with high-grade ( greater than or equal to 75 % ) stenosis maintains the durable stroke prevention offered by primary carotid endarterectomy . 
the association of elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine with progression of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease . plasma homocyst ( e ) ine ( the sum of free and bound homocysteine , homocystine , and the mixed disulfide homocysteine-cysteine , expressed as homocysteine ) levels were determined by high performance liquid chromatography in 214 patients with symptomatic ( claudication , rest pain , gangrene , amputation ) lower extremity arterial occlusive disease and/or symptomatic ( stroke , cerebral transient ischemic attacks ) cerebral vascular disease and in 103 control persons . mean plasma homocyst ( e ) ine was significantly higher in patients than in controls ( 14.37 + / - 6.89 nmol/ml vs 10.10 + / - 2.16 , p less than 0.05 ) . thirty-nine percent of patients ( 83 of 214 ) had plasma homocyst ( e ) ine values greater than control mean + 2 standard deviations . plasma homocyst ( e ) ine values were contrasted to age , male sex , diabetes , hypertension , smoking , renal failure , and plasma cholesterol . no difference was found in the incidence and/or level of any of these risk factors when patients with normal plasma homocyst ( e ) ine were compared to those with elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine , both by univariate and multivariate analysis . patients with elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine were more likely to demonstrate clinical progression of lower extremity disease and of coronary artery disease , but not of cerebral vascular disease than were patients with normal plasma homocyst ( e ) ine , and the rate of progression was more rapid ( p = 0.002 ) . progression of lower extremity disease as assessed in the vascular laboratory was also more common in patients with elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine ( p = 0.01 ) . we conclude that elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine is an independent risk factor for symptomatic lower extremity disease or cerebral vascular disease or both . symptomatic patients with lower extremity disease and with elevated plasma homocyst ( e ) ine also appear to have more rapid progression of disease . 
experience with in situ saphenous vein bypasses during 1981 to 1989 : determinant factors of long-term patency . from 1981 to 1989 , 361 consecutive in situ saphenous vein bypasses were performed . indications for revascularization were critical limb ischemia ( n = 335 , 93 % ) , popliteal aneurysm ( n = 15 , 4 % ) , and claudication ( n = 11 , 3 % ) . outflow tract was the popliteal artery in 116 ( 32 % ) and tibial artery in 245 ( 68 % ) of bypasses . at 6 years primary patency was 63 % and secondary patency was 81 % . during the performance of the in situ bypass procedure , 86 ( 24 % ) venous conduits were modified because of a technical failure ( n = 49 , 13 % ) or an inadequate vein segment ( n = 37 , 10 % ) . secondary patency at 4 years for bypasses requiring modification was 72 % compared to 84 % for bypasses not modified ( p less than 0.05 ) . atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery necessitating endarterectomy , patch angioplasty , or replacement lowered primary patency at 3 years ( 69 % ) compared to the inflow artery not requiring reconstruction ( 46 % , p less than 0.02 ) . in the follow-up period , 95 ( 26 % ) bypasses were revised because of thrombosis or hemodynamic failure . bypasses requiring revision had a 4-year secondary patency of 68 % compared to 88 % for bypasses not revised ( p less than 0.02 ) . the first 179 cases ( 1981 to 1985 ) were compared to the subsequent 182 cases ( 1986 to 1989 ) . the secondary patency at 3 years for the latter half ( 92 % ) compared to the first half ( 80 % ) of the experience was significantly improved ( p less than 0.02 ) . the secondary patency for bypasses not requiring revision was significantly improved ( p less than 0.02 ) for the latter half ( n = 142 , 97 % ) compared to the first half ( n = 124 , 83 % ) of the series . long-term patency with the in situ saphenous vein bypass is dependent on surgical experience , quality of the venous conduit , and atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery that necessitates reconstruction . meticulous surgical technique and compulsive bypass surveillance results in superior long-term patency . 
treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm by exclusion and bypass : an analysis of outcome . abdominal aortic aneurysm is conventionally treated by aneurysmorrhaphy with inlying graft . alternatively , division of the aorta , with suture closure of the distal aorta and outflow vessels ( exclusion of the aneurysm ) , and end-to-end proximal to distal bypass may be performed . however , the long-term fate of this operation has not been determined . specifically , concern exists that the excluded blood filled aneurysm may not thrombose or may be the source of late sepsis . during an 8-year period we have treated 280 abdominal aortic aneurysms ( urgent and elective ) by exclusion of the abdominal aortic aneurysm sac and bypass via the posterolateral retroperitoneal approach . mean age was 70 years ( range , 44 to 88 ) , with 217 men and 63 women . preoperative ct scanning and aortography were performed to assess arterial anatomy . seventy tube grafts and 260 bifurcation grafts were used . thirty-day mortality rate was 4 % . estimated blood loss was 731 + / - 52 ml ; mean transfusion requirements were 456 + / - 82 ml . the minor complication rate was 6 % , and it is of great interest that there were no cases of ischemic colitis requiring colectomy . aneurysm sacs thrombosed except in two anticoagulated patients who required further treatment . no late infections occurred . five-year bypass patency rate was 98 % . these data demonstrate that this method of treatment effectively minimized operative dissection and blood loss and therefore is a viable alternative for the management of abdominal aortic aneurysms . 
antiplatelet drugs in femoropopliteal vein bypasses : a multicenter trial . to evaluate the influence of antiplatelet drugs on patency in femoropopliteal vein bypasses , 48 vascular surgeons recruited 549 patients to a randomized double-blind trial of aspirin ( 300 mg ) + dipyridamole ( 150 mg ) or placebo twice daily starting 2 days before surgery and continuing indefinitely . graft occlusion measured objectively by independent coordinators and cardiovascular events ( myocardial infarction or stroke ) were studied , expressed by life table , and analyzed statistically by log rank and confidence intervals ( 95 % ci ) . randomization achieved comparable groups with 60 % of grafts inserted for rest pain or gangrene . operative complications on aspirin plus dipyridamole included 18 reoperations for bleeding and 12 hematomas compared with 9 and 14 , respectively , on placebo ( ns ) . most of the 172 graft failures occurred early with failure rates of 43/1000 patient-months in the first 3 months , reducing to 17/1000 at 6 to 12 months , and under 10/1000 in subsequent years . cumulative graft patency on placebo was 72 % , 62 % , and 60 % at 1 , 2 , and 3 years , respectively , compared with 78 % , 70 % , and 61 % on aspirin plus dipyridamole . the difference in patency of 6.1 % ( 95 % ci , -3 % to 15.5 % ) at 1 year and 8.0 % ( 95 % ci , -5 % to 21 % ) at 2 years failed to achieve significance ( p = 0.43 ) . on mean follow-up of 34 months , 53 ( 132/1000 patient-years ) cardiovascular events ( myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident ) occurred in patients on placebo compared with only 35 ( 73/1000 ) on aspirin plus dipyridamole , a significant difference of 59/1000 ( p = 0.004 ) . antiplatelet therapy had little influence on femoropopliteal vein patency , but subsequent myocardial infarction and stroke was reduced in these patients with peripheral vascular disease . 
prospective , randomized comparison of ringed and nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypass grafts : a preliminary report . kinking and compression with knee flexion are thought to be one cause of failure of below-knee polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypass . to prevent this problem polytetrafluoroethylene grafts externally supported with rigid rings have been developed . the present randomized , prospective study compared ringed and nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts in 122 patients who underwent femoropopliteal bypass for severe limb ischemia . patients were well matched for surgical indications and risk factors . there was no significant difference in the 3-year graft patency rate of ringed versus nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses ( 74 % vs 68 % , p = 0.5 ) . similarly , no significant differences were found in the 3-year graft patency rates of ringed versus non-ringed above-knee ( 82 % vs 74 % , p = 0.5 ) or below-knee polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses ( 68 % vs 59 % , p = 0.5 ) . the 3-year graft patency rate of all above-knee polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses was slightly greater than that of below-knee polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses ( 76 % vs 62 % ) , but this difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.25 ) . the 3-year limb salvage rate with ringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts was 92 % compared with 79 % for nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts , but this difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.25 ) . data to date from this study fail to support the recommendation that ringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts be used preferentially over conventional polytetrafluoroethylene grafts in patients who require femoropopliteal bypass with a synthetic graft . 
angiographic localization of spinal cord blood supply and its relationship to postoperative paraplegia . forty-seven patients underwent selective catheterization of middle and lower thoracic intercostal and upper lumbar arteries to define the origin of the artery of adamkiewicz . one patient had significant atheroembolism , and a second had transient lower extremity paresthesias . no other complications occurred . the origin was found in 26 ( 55 % ) , and 21 patients underwent thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair with this knowledge . when the critical lumbar or intercostal artery could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis , all 12 patients could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis , all 12 patients survived , and one was paralyzed . however , if the aneurysm repair mandated a midgraft anastomosis to intercostal arteries critical to spinal cord perfusion , seven of nine patients either died or were paralyzed ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the group of 19 patients operated on in whom spinal cord blood supply was not identified three patients had a technically unsuccessful operation ; two died , and one was paralyzed . twelve of 16 patients who had an adequate , but unsuccessful attempt at localization were treated by intercostal " neglect " and survived . late paresis developed in two patients , but they are walking now . one of the patients who died had multiple systems failure and awakened paraplegic . she had a patent , enlarged , thoracic radicular artery at t-5 which probably supplied to spinal cord and which was missed angiographically . paralysis was associated with aneurysm extent ( group 2 and iii b , dissections vs group 1 & 3 , p less than 0.05 ) . selective intercostal angiography requires further refinement , but it is safe and offers the promise of understanding the mechanisms and risks of spinal cord complications after repair of extensive thoracoabdominal aneurysms . 
a prospective randomized study of cerebrospinal fluid drainage to prevent paraplegia after high-risk surgery on the thoracoabdominal aorta . this article is concerned with the study of the effect of several variables , principally that of cerebrospinal fluid drainage , on the incidence of neurologic deficit in a prospective randomized series of patients with extensive aneurysms of the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta ( thoracoabdominal type i and ii ) . forty-six patients had cerebrospinal fluid drainage , and 52 were controls , with a total of 98 available for study . cerebrospinal fluid pressure was continuously monitored in the former group and pressure maintained less than or equal to 10 mm hg in 20 , less than or equal to 15 mm hg in 20 , and greater than 15 mm hg in 6 patients during period of aortic clamping . the method of treatment including reattachment of intercostal and lumbar arteries ( p = 0.2 ) , temporary atriofemoral bypass during aortic occlusion ( p = 0.3 ) , and spinal fluid drainage ( p = 0.8 ) were not statistically significant in reducing the incidence of neurologic deficits . thus cerebrospinal fluid drainage as we used it , was not beneficial in preventing paraplegia . on appropriate statistical analysis we found that the only significant predictor of delayed deficits was postoperative hypotension ( p = 0.006 ) . 
a clinically applicable method for long-term salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle . the clinical significance and applicability of interventions aimed at reducing reperfusion injury in postischemic skeletal muscle remain unproven , since long-term muscle salvage has not been demonstrated by most treatment protocols that attenuate early reperfusion injury . we have shown that reperfusion of ischemic skeletal muscle results in an early and prolonged sequestration of white blood cells and activation of the alternative complement cascade . the purpose of this study was to determine if 40 minutes of reperfusion with blood depleted of white blood cells and complement proteins , followed by 2 days of normal perfusion , would reduce muscle necrosis after 5 hours of ischemia . the isolated paired canine gracilis muscle model was used . the treatment muscle was initially reperfused with arterial blood that had been spun , washed , passed through a leukocyte removal filter , and resuspended in hydroxyethyl starch ( greater than 99.9 % removal of white blood cells and the complement proteins factor b and c4 ) . the contralateral control muscle was subjected to unaltered reperfusion . blood flow ( ml/min/100 gm ) was measured by timed collection of gracilis venous blood . myeloperoxidase activity ( absorbance at 655 nm/min/mg tissue protein ) in muscle biopsies was used to monitor white blood cell sequestration . after 48 hours of reperfusion in vivo , necrosis was quantified by nitroblue tetrazolium staining . initial reperfusion with white blood cell and complement depleted blood significantly reduced muscle necrosis ( 53 % + / - 3 % vs 29 % + / - 8 % , p less than 0.0025 , paired t test ) . early blood flow was improved , ( p = 0.0025 , repeated measure-anova ) , but subsequent white blood cell sequestration was not altered ( p = 0.33 , repeated measure-anova ) . this suggests that a significant amount of white blood cell mediated injury occurs during the first 40 minutes of reperfusion . preventing early complement activation and white blood cell mediated reperfusion injury is an intervention that is feasible during surgery and may result in clinically significant salvage of postischemic skeletal muscle . 
mesenteric blood flow in patients with diabetic neuropathy . we examined flow velocities in the superior mesenteric artery and celiac artery in normal controls ( group c , n = 11 ) , diabetic patients ( group d , n = 8 ) , and diabetic patients with clinically evident autonomic neuropathy ( group dn , n = 6 ) to further define the usefulness of duplex examination in the evaluation of the mesenteric circulation in normal and disease states . by use of a 3 mhz duplex scanner , peak systolic velocity , peak diastolic forward velocity , end-diastolic forward velocity , and peak diastolic reverse velocity were measured in centimeters per second before and after a standardized meal . the vessels ' diameters in centimeters were also measured . after the meal peak diastolic reverse velocity disappeared in all patients . the average vessel diameter in the superior mesenteric artery ( 0.7 cm ) and celiac artery ( 0.8 cm ) did not change . flow velocities in the celiac artery were not significantly altered by the meal . in the control group , peak systolic velocity in the superior mesenteric artery increased 38 % , peak diastolic forward velocity rose 66 % , and end-diastolic forward velocity increased by 70 % . in the diabetic nonneuropathic group the changes were 15 % , 98 % , and 100 % , respectively . these changes were statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . on the other hand , the patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy presenting a picture of gastroparesis did not exhibit the expected increases in postprandial velocities . moreover , this alteration in blood flow velocity , although similar to that encountered in patients with intestinal angina , did not appear to be due to occlusive arterial disease on the basis of clinical examination and b-mode scanning . 
driving and epilepsy . a review and reappraisal driving and epilepsy is a problem that involves physicians as both care providers to patients and consultants to regulatory authorities . driving restrictions for people with seizure disorders are intended to ensure the public 's safety , but such restrictions may unduly harm the welfare of many people with seizures . in the united states , all states now permit some people with epilepsy to drive . in general , only people whose seizures are adequately controlled are licensed to drive . adequate control has been judged principally by the seizure-free interval , but individual state standards widely vary . there is a trend toward greater liberalization of driving standards for people with seizure disorders , but the appropriateness and application of these standards continue to raise questions , as does the role physicians should have in the licensing process . our responsibilities to persons with disabilities and advances in our understanding of seizures and the nature of driving risks warrant a reappraisal of the current medical , legal , and social implications of driving and epilepsy . 
a successful treatment of an intrarenal arteriovenous fistula by percutaneous embolization . a 37-year-old woman patient , known to have poorly controlled arterial hypertension that was diagnosed following a cerebrovascular accident at the age of 15 years , was referred to our outpatient clinic for investigation in 1987 . an intrarenal arteriovenous fistula was diagnosed by selective renal angiography . embolization of the fistula was performed using four 15-mm/5-cm coils , which induced thrombosis and obstructed the fistula . the vascularization of the affected kidney improved immediately . during the following 4 months , the antihypertensive treatment was stopped gradually , and the patient remained normotensive . this is an unusual case of a large intrarenal arteriovenous fistula , whose etiology was not clear , that was successfully treated by percutaneous embolization . 
pharmacologic stress imaging . pharmacologic stress imaging has increasingly been employed as an alternative to exercise imaging for detection of coronary artery disease and risk stratification particularly in patients who are unable to perform adequate exercise . sensitivity and specificity of thallium 201 scintigraphy using intravenous dipyridamole infusion as a stress for coronary artery disease detection average 85 % and 91 % , respectively . dipyridamole imaging is also useful for differentiating between ischemia and scar and identifying patients who have an increased risk for subsequent cardiac events . dipyridamole imaging is particularly useful for preoperative risk stratification in patients undergoing surgery for peripheral vascular or aortic disease . dipyridamole imaging is also useful for identifying residual myocardial ischemia after myocardial infarction and detecting restenosis after coronary angioplasty . adverse side effects of dipyridamole are promptly reversed by aminophylline . dipyridamole stress can also be employed in association with echocardiography for detection of ischemia-induced regional wall motion abnormalities . 
thyroid crises . in the setting of characteristic features of thyrotoxicosis , the timely diagnosis and aggressive management of thyroid storm should result in a successful outcome . however , severe storm may lead to irreversible cardiovascular collapse , especially in the older patient who may have atypical features of thyrotoxicosis . the fundamental approach is prompt and optimal treatment in the emergency department once the presenting clinical features suggest its presence . delay in the introduction of therapy while awaiting laboratory confirmation may result in further decompensation and death . the prevention of myxedema coma entails paying special attention to certain high-risk patient groups . these groups include older women with a history of hashimoto 's thyroiditis , or previous irradiation or thyroid surgery for hyperthyroidism . inform such patients of the symptoms and signs of hypothyroidism , and perform annual thyroid function tests , such as a serum tsh , in order to provide early , adequate treatment once the test becomes positive . 
thyroiditis . acute , subacute , and chronic . inflammatory diseases of the thyroid are collectively the commonest thyroid disorder . individually , they range from the rare case of acute bacterial thyroiditis to the other end of the spectrum , the even rarer riedel 's thyroiditis . relatively common thyroid inflammatory diseases include the subacute thyroiditis syndromes . of particular interest to endocrinologists is that both subacute granulomatous ( painful ) thyroiditis and subacute lymphocytic ( painless ) thyroiditis are very similar in terms of clinical course , although most likely have different etiologies . nevertheless , their similarities suggest the possibility that there may be etiologic heterogeneity for the syndromes . from a clinical standpoint , it is essential to differentiate subacute painless thyroiditis from graves ' disease , because these two disorders also may mimic each other , yet only graves ' disease requires specific therapy . chronic lymphocytic ( hashimoto 's ) thyroiditis , the commonest of the thyroiditides , presents with goiter and either hyperthyroidism ( uncommon ) , hypothyroidism ( common ) , or euthyroidism ( most common ) . when l-t4 therapy is used in the treatment of hashimoto 's thyroiditis , the physician must be alert to the possibility of excess thyroid hormone administration . sensitive tsh measurements help to avoid this therapeutic pitfall . 
glucose-induced exertional fatigue in muscle phosphofructokinase deficiency background . the exercise capacity of patients with muscle phosphofructokinase deficiency is low and fluctuates from day to day . the basis of this variable exercise tolerance is unknown , but our patients with this disorder report that fatigue of active muscles is more rapid after a high-carbohydrate meal . methods and results . to determine the effect of carbohydrate on exercise performance , we asked four patients with muscle phosphofructokinase deficiency to perform cycle exercise under conditions of differing availability of substrate -- i.e. , after an overnight fast , and during an infusion of glucose or triglyceride ( with 10 u of heparin per kilogram of body weight ) after an overnight fast . as compared with fasting and the infusion of triglyceride with heparin , the glucose infusion lowered plasma levels of free fatty acids and ketones , reduced maximal work capacity by 60 to 70 percent , and lowered maximal oxygen consumption by 30 to 40 percent . glucose also increased the relative intensity of submaximal exercise , as indicated by a higher heart rate at a given workload during exercise . the maximal cardiac output ( i.e. , oxygen delivery ) was not affected by varying substrate availability , but the maximal systemic arteriovenous oxygen difference was significantly lower during glucose infusion ( mean + / - se , 5.5 + / - 0.3 ml per deciliter ) than after fasting ( 7.6 + / - 0.4 ml per deciliter , p less than 0.05 ) or during the infusion of triglyceride with heparin ( 8.9 + / - 1.3 ml per deciliter , p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions . in muscle phosphofructokinase deficiency , the oxidative capacity of muscle and the capacity for aerobic exercise vary according to the availability of blood-borne fuels . we believe that glucose infusion lowers exercise tolerance by inhibiting lipolysis and thus depriving muscle of oxidative substrate ( plasma free fatty acids and ketones ) ; this impairs the capacity of working muscle to extract oxygen and lowers maximal oxygen consumption . 
incidence of adverse events and negligence in hospitalized patients . results of the harvard medical practice study i background . as part of an interdisciplinary study of medical injury and malpractice litigation , we estimated the incidence of adverse events , defined as injuries caused by medical management , and of the subgroup of such injuries that resulted from negligent or substandard care . methods . we reviewed 30,121 randomly selected records from 51 randomly selected acute care , nonpsychiatric hospitals in new york state in 1984 . we then developed population estimates of injuries and computed rates according to the age and sex of the patients as well as the specialties of the physicians . results . adverse events occurred in 3.7 percent of the hospitalizations ( 95 percent confidence interval , 3.2 to 4.2 ) , and 27.6 percent of the adverse events were due to negligence ( 95 percent confidence interval , 22.5 to 32.6 ) . although 70.5 percent of the adverse events gave rise to disability lasting less than six months , 2.6 percent caused permanently disabling injuries and 13.6 percent led to death . the percentage of adverse events attributable to negligence increased in the categories of more severe injuries ( wald test chi 2 = 21.04 , p less than 0.0001 ) . using weighted totals , we estimated that among the 2,671,863 patients discharged from new york hospitals in 1984 there were 98,609 adverse events and 27,179 adverse events involving negligence . rates of adverse events rose with age ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the percentage of adverse events due to negligence was markedly higher among the elderly ( p less than 0.01 ) . there were significant differences in rates of adverse events among categories of clinical specialties ( p less than 0.0001 ) , but no differences in the percentage due to negligence . conclusions . there is a substantial amount of injury to patients from medical management , and many injuries are the result of substandard care . 
the nature of adverse events in hospitalized patients . results of the harvard medical practice study ii . background . in a sample of 30,195 randomly selected hospital records , we identified 1133 patients ( 3.7 percent ) with disabling injuries caused by medical treatment . we report here an analysis of these adverse events and their relation to error , negligence , and disability . methods . two physician-reviewers independently identified the adverse events and evaluated them with respect to negligence , errors in management , and extent of disability . one of the authors classified each event according to type of injury . we tested the significance of differences in rates of negligence and disability among categories with at least 30 adverse events . results . drug complications were the most common type of adverse event ( 19 percent ) , followed by wound infections ( 14 percent ) and technical complications ( 13 percent ) . nearly half the adverse events ( 48 percent ) were associated with an operation . adverse events during surgery were less likely to be caused by negligence ( 17 percent ) than nonsurgical ones ( 37 percent ) . the proportion of adverse events due to negligence was highest for diagnostic mishaps ( 75 percent ) , noninvasive therapeutic mishaps ( " errors of omission " ) ( 77 percent ) , and events occurring in the emergency room ( 70 percent ) . errors in management were identified for 58 percent of the adverse events , among which nearly half were attributed to negligence . conclusions . although the prevention of many adverse events must await improvements in medical knowledge , the high proportion that are due to management errors suggests that many others are potentially preventable now . reducing the incidence of these events will require identifying their causes and developing methods to prevent error or reduce its effects . 
progression from lymphoid hyperplasia to high-grade malignant lymphoma in mice transgenic for the t ( 14 ; 18 ) . follicular lymphoma , the most common human lymphoma , characteristically has a t ( 14 ; 18 ) interchromosomal translocation . it is typically an indolent disease comprised of small resting b cells , but frequently develops into a high-grade lymphoma . the t ( 14 ; 18 ) translocates the bcl-2 gene , generating a deregulated bcl-2-immunoglobulin fusion gene . bcl-2 is a novel inner mitochondrial membrane protein that extends the survival of certain cells by blocking programmed cell death . to determine the oncogenic potential of the t ( 14 ; 18 ) translocation , we produced transgenic mice bearing a bcl-2-immunoglobulin minigene that structurally mimicked the t ( 14 ; 18 ) . an indolent follicular hyperplasia in these transgenic mice progressed to a malignant diffuse large-cell lymphoma . the long latency , progression from polyclonal to monoclonal disease , and histological conversion , are all suggestive of secondary changes . half of the immunoblastic high-grade lymphomas had a rearranged c-myc gene . our transgenic mice provide an animal model for tumour progression in t ( 14 ; 18 ) lymphoma and show that prolonged b-cell life increases tumour incidence . 
suppression of tumorigenicity in human colon carcinoma cells by introduction of normal chromosome 5 or 18 . development of colon carcinomas can be associated with allelic deletions on several chromosomes , including 5q and 18q . the apc gene on 5q and the dcc gene on 18q have been identified as potential tumour suppressor genes , whose suppression contributes to colon carcinogenesis . to investigate the role of genes in these deleted regions , we have now introduced a single normal human chromosome into a human colon carcinoma cell line , cokfu , through microcell hybridization . several clones of hybrid cells containing normal chromosome 5 , and others containing normal chromosome 18 , were obtained . the morphology of the hybrid cells was markedly altered : the hybrids with chromosome 5 exhibited a closely packed polygonal morphology , and the hybrid cells with chromosome 18 were flattened . the cloning efficiency of the hybrid cells in soft agar was reduced from 0.46 to 0 % of that of the parental carcinoma cells , and the tumorigenicity of these hybrid cells in athymic nude mice was completely suppressed . the growth properties of the hybrid cells with chromosome 11 were not substantially changed . these results strongly suggest that the genes on normal chromosome 5 and 18 function as tumour suppressors in colon carcinogenesis . 
lower eyelid retraction : a minimal incision surgical approach to retractor lysis . lower eyelid retraction associated with prior blepharoplasty , trauma , or other conditions is a challenging problem for the ophthalmic surgeon . we describe a procedure involving tightening the lower eyelid and supraplacing the lateral canthus in combination with in-glove lysis of the lower eyelid retractors and scar tissue . this is accomplished through a small lateral incision . to date , we have treated over 200 eyelids using this technique with excellent results . we recommend this technique for the treatment of mild to moderate degrees of lower eyelid retraction . 
a method for performing full-thickness , orthotopic , penetrating keratoplasty in the mouse . in an attempt to overcome the lack of well characterized , inbred , and congenic strains , as well as a paucity of immunological reagents , in rabbit and rat models , we have developed a procedure for performing full-thickness , penetrating keratoplasty in the mouse . one hundred percent of isografts ( balb/c onto balb/c ) were successful , while 83.3 % of allografts ( c3h onto balb/c ) failed . the use of a mouse model to study corneal graft failure will allow a critical evaluation of the role of a variety of immunological mediators in causing graft failure . 
glaucoma triple procedures : efficacy of intraocular pressure control and visual outcome . sixty-three glaucoma triple surgeries [ combined trabeculectomy , extracapsular cataract extraction ( ecce ) , and posterior-chamber intraocular lens ( pc-iol ) implantation ] were reviewed . intraocular pressure ( iop ) was controlled satisfactorily in all cases ; 25 % required additional glaucoma therapy but fewer glaucoma medications . eighty-six percent achieved 6/12 or better visual acuity . postoperative iop and visual acuity results were similar to those achieved by trabeculectomy or ecce/pc-iol , respectively . cumulative years of preoperative glaucoma therapy had an adverse effect on postoperative iop control . 
pressure-curve variations after trabeculectomy for chronic primary open-angle glaucoma . we report the results of a 5-year study of the influence of trabeculectomy on the maximum intraocular pressure ( iop ) and the amplitude of its diurnal oscillation in 26 eyes ( 14 patients ) with open-angle glaucoma . pressure-curves were recorded before surgery and at 1 year and 5 years after surgery . the latter two pressure-curves demonstrated that trabeculectomy significantly reduced both the maximum iop and the amplitude of the oscillations below preoperative values . 
mycobacterium chelonei keratopathy with visual rehabilitation by a triple procedure . we report a chronic keratouveitis following an eye injury , the etiology of which remained obscure despite repeated corneal scrapings and cultures . eventually , the diagnosis was established by culturing mycobacterium chelonei from a corneal biopsy specimen . topical amikacin resolved active inflammation , but dense corneal scarring and a cataract remained . visual rehabilitation was achieved through a combined penetrating keratoplasty , extracapsular cataract extraction , and intraocular lens implantation . this case illustrates that there should be a high index of suspicion of atypical mycobacteria when faced with any unusual keratitis , particularly following penetrating injuries and corneal grafts . 
aminocaproic acid prophylaxis in traumatic hyphema . oral aminocaproic acid has been shown to be effective in clot stabilization and in the reduction of secondary bleeding rates in cases of traumatic hyphema . in a retrospective study of 105 patients treated during a 1-year period , we found the incidence of rebleeding in patients with traumatic hyphema who received aminocaproic acid prophylaxis was 2 % ; the incidence in those who did not was 25 % . 
pediatric hiv disease . the newest chronic illness of childhood . hiv disease has emerged as a major chronic illness of childhood . children with hiv infection and children with other chronic health impairments have much in common , including the need for comprehensive , multidisciplinary , coordinated care that includes special attention to the psychosocial effects on the child and family . however , because the mother and often the father and siblings share this lethal viral infection , the impact of hiv disease upon the family surpasses that of virtually all other chronic conditions . this is compounded by the association of the disease with drug use , its preponderance among the most disenfranchised populations in the united states , and the persistent public fear and discrimination surrounding aids . we have made substantial progress already in the medical management of this infection , and while we await the development of more effective therapies , we already have the tools and knowledge in hand to help these families . 
sudden infant death syndrome and small airway occlusion : facts and a hypothesis . respiratory failure is almost certainly the cause of death in the majority of cases of sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) , but the mechanisms leading to it have not been elucidated . sids shares many environmental and socioeconomic risk factors with severe forms of bronchiolitis , and the age distribution of incident cases is similar . present knowledge of lung and airway development during infancy , determinants of peripheral airway patency , changes in lung surface activity in infants with sids , and fluid film dynamics in small airways are reviewed . it is hypothesized that many cases of sids may be due to a final episode of progressive peripheral bronchial occlusion in infants with preceding critically diminished conductance of the smaller airways . 
ehrlichiosis in children . tick-borne rickettsiae of the genus ehrlichia have recently been recognized as a cause of human illness in the united states . in the years 1986-1988 , 10 cases of ehrlichiosis were diagnosed in children in oklahoma . fever and headache were universal : myalgias , nausea , vomiting , and anorexia were also common . rash was observed in six patients but was a prominent finding in only one . leukopenia , lymphopenia , and thrombocytopenia were common laboratory abnormalities . six patients were treated with tetracycline , three with chloramphenicol , and one was not treated with antibiotics : all recovered . the onset of illness in spring and early summer for most cases paralleled the time when amblyomma americanum and dermacentor variabilis are most active , suggesting that one or both ticks may be vectors of human ehrlichiosis in oklahoma . 
infantile systemic hyalinosis : newly recognized disorder of collagen ? four infants with stiff skin and painful joint contractures in the first few months of life are described . other features included small papules , particularly on the face and trunk , perianal nodules , hyperpigmentation over the metacarpophalangeal joints and over the malleoli , gingival hyperplasia , persistent diarrhea , and failure to thrive . two of these infants died before the age of 18 months . in each case hyaline material was found in the papillary dermis . ultrastructurally , there was a distinctive fibrillogranular appearance in which a banding pattern could be observed . this material was also found within membrane-bound vacuoles in macrophages and fibroblasts . it had an appearance and localization identical with that of collagen type vi . these features are similar to those reported in juvenile hyaline fibromatosis . it is believed that these infants have a closely related , but nonetheless distinctive , inherited disorder of collagen . 
acute myocarditis simulating myocardial infarction in a child . pediatric chest pain usually occurs in benign conditions . however , this case portrays the dramatic electrocardiographic appearance of acute myocardial ischemia in a boy with biopsy-proven myocarditis who had only mild chest pain . this underscores the need for eliciting a detailed history when evaluating a patient with chest pain . if the pain can not be clearly attributed to chest wall phenomena , or if there are historical or physical findings suggestive of an arrhythmia or angina , then further investigation with a chest radiograph and a 12-lead electrocardiogram is recommended . myocarditis must be considered in the differential diagnosis of any child whose electrocardiogram is indistinguishable from an acute myocardial infarction . finally , endomyocardial biopsy allows early diagnosis and institution of therapy , which may have beneficial effect on decreasing morbidity and mortality . further follow-up and research is still needed to evaluate the effect of early treatment of myocarditis on long-term myocardial function and the development of chronic cardiomyopathy . 
gi symptoms , function , and psychophysiological arousal in dysmenorrheic women . in a previous study , gastrointestinal ( gi ) symptoms and stool characteristics were found to be influenced by menstrual cycle phase . the current study was designed to replicate initial work regarding gi symptoms and stool characteristics and to explore the relationships between gi symptoms , stool characteristics , ovarian hormone levels , and indicators of psychophysiological arousal . fifty women ( dysmenorrheic , n = 22 ; nondysmenorrheic , n = 28 ) maintained a daily dairy for recording stool characteristics , gi symptoms , and daily anxiety level . first morning void urine specimens for catecholamine assays and serum samples for ovarian hormone and cortisol determinations were obtained at menses , follicular , and luteal phases . results showed menstrual cycle-related differences in stool characteristics and report of gi symptoms , with the greatest changes occurring at menses in the total sample . dysmenorrheic women reported higher levels of all gi symptoms at menses as compared to nondysmenorrheic women . in addition , cycle-related differences in serum cortisol , urine catecholamines , and report of anxiety were also noted , particularly in dysmenorrheic women . however , looser stools and gi symptoms at menses were not correlated with absolute levels of ovarian hormones or indicators of psychophysiological arousal . 
psychometric and descriptive perspectives of illness impact over the life span . this article describes the development of an instrument that quantifies illness over the course of life . the sample was comprised of 308 women , aged 50 to 70 , who were alumnae of a master 's program in nursing . each submitted information concerning illness experienced during each decade of life . each time period was then rated multidimensionally ( duration , discomfort , interference , threat to life ) to reflect the impact of the various conditions and the means by decade ( decade impact ) were computed . in general , after the first two decades , magnitude of ratings increased with age , indicating greater disease impact . interrater reliability and internal consistency reliability of the scale were high . evidence for construct validity included substantial differences between those with and without specific illness conditions , as well as correlations with hospitalization history and health self-ratings . in cluster analysis of patterns across decades , five distinct patterns emerged into which subjects were grouped . 
laser angioplasty : results of a prospective , multicenter study at 3-year follow-up . a prospective multicenter trial was initiated to evaluate the efficacy and safety of laser angioplasty . laser recanalization was performed in 338 patients with arteriosclerotic femoropopliteal artery occlusions ( average length , 8.5 cm ) . neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet lasers were used in combination with sapphire probe catheters . the initial recanalization rate was 85 % . complications were observed in 14 % of the patients . emergency surgery was required in 1.5 % . the cumulative long-term patency rate of the successfully recanalized arteries was 80 % , 70 % , 62 % , and 57 % at 6 months , 1 year , and 2 and 3 years , respectively . the patency rates were not affected by the length of the occlusion and the long-term medication ( platelet inhibition vs anticoagulation ) , but patients with a normal runoff had significantly better patency rates than those with reduced runoff ( 63 % vs 52 % , p less than .01 ) . the study has shown that laser-assisted angioplasty is safe and at least as effective as conventional angioplasty . 
benign biliary strictures : treatment with percutaneous cholangioplasty . results of percutaneous balloon cholangioplasty of 17 patients with 28 benign biliary strictures were compared with those of published radiologic and surgical series to determine whether stricture location was related to therapeutic success and whether a patient should undergo percutaneous or surgical therapy . treatment was considered successful if there was no anatomic evidence of recurrent stricture or need for surgery ( mean follow-up , 32 months ) . treatment was successful in all nine ( 100 % ) intrahepatic ( zone 1 ) strictures , 11 of 12 ( 92 % ) extrahepatic-extrapancreatic ( zone 2 ) strictures , one of three ( 33 % ) intrapancreatic ( zone 3 ) strictures , and three of four ( 75 % ) bilienteric anastomotic ( zone 4 ) strictures . restenosis occurred in five patients ; cholangioplasty was ultimately successful in two of those patients after redilation and stent placement . on the basis of these results and those of published radiologic and surgical series , the authors believe that cholangioplasty is the treatment of choice for zone 1 strictures and is as effective as surgery for zone 2 and 4 strictures . patients with zone 2 and 4 strictures with concomitant portal hypertension or a history of multiple previous biliary surgical procedures should be considered good candidates for cholangioplasty . zone 3 strictures may be better treated surgically than percutaneously . 
pancreatic response to percutaneous biliary drainage : a prospective study . to evaluate the effects of percutaneous biliary drainage ( pbd ) on the pancreas , serum amylase levels were measured for 7 consecutive days after pbd and compared with baseline values in 50 patients who underwent a total of 53 pbd procedures . of the 45 patients with normal baseline serum amylase levels , 12 patients ( 24 % ) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia without clinical symptoms and five patients ( 10 % ) developed postprocedural hyperamylasemia with clinical signs of pancreatitis . five patients who presented with elevated baseline serum amylase levels demonstrated decreases into the normal range after placement of stents without initiation of bowel rest or liquid diet . the level of biliary obstruction proved insignificant , as did the nature of the obstructing disease , in determining which patients would experience hyperamylasemia or pancreatitis after pbd . it is concluded that the frequency of pancreatic insult from pbd may be more common than previously reported and that patient susceptibility is not dependent on the level of biliary obstruction or the nature of the disease . 
delayed rupture of a pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk : treatment with therapeutic embolization . fourteen days after removal of an internal jugular catheter inserted prior to renal transplantation , a patient presented with brisk arterial hemorrhage from the insertion site . the hemorrhage , caused by a ruptured pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk , was controlled by transcatheter embolization with gelatin particles . one year later the patient reported no problems related to the pseudoaneurysm or its management . 
malignancy associated with chronic empyema : radiologic assessment . radiologic findings of six cases of malignancy associated with chronic empyema 5-39 years in duration were reviewed . pathologic examination confirmed three b-cell non-hodgkin lymphomas , one round-cell sarcoma , one mesothelioma , and one adenocarcinoma . retrospective findings on plain chest radiographs suggested the occurrence of malignancy : increased radiopacity in the thoracic cavity , soft-tissue bulgings and/or unsharpness of fat planes in the chest walls , destruction of bone near the empyema , and extensive medial deviation of the calcified pleurae . computed tomography delineated masses with soft-tissue attenuation more clearly than radiography in all cases . magnetic resonance images of three cases were informative because empyema cavities were surrounded by low-intensity rims , and two of them showed a signal intensity different from that of necrotic tumors . scintigraphy revealed increased uptake of gallium in all cases . ultrasonography was useful for biopsy guidance . every radiologist should know this entity in observation of chest radiographs obtained in patients with chronic empyema , and further radiologic assessment and aggressive biopsy are recommended if malignancy is suspected . 
cerebral infarction : early detection by means of contrast-enhanced cerebral arteries at mr imaging . the authors describe a new magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging sign of acute cerebral ischemia/infarction . abnormally contrast material-enhanced curvilinear structures were demonstrated in eight patients in the evolving area of cerebral ischemia/infarction within 26 hours after the ictus on contrast-enhanced , high-field-strength ( 1.5-t ) , t1-weighted spin-echo images . the abnormal enhancement is considered to represent cortical arterial vessels of markedly slowed circulation in areas of underlying brain injury , which will eventually progress to frank brain infarction . this was demonstrated at computed tomographic ( ct ) and follow-up mr examinations . characteristically , the degree of the contrast enhancement of vessels appeared most intense in the proximal portions , and the intensity of enhancement gradually diminished in the more distal portions of these vessels as they pass over the convexities and finally disappear . 
rectal strictures : treatment with fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation . the authors performed 25 fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation procedures in nine patients with rectal strictures . in all cases , the stricture developed after rectal surgery . four patients underwent ileoanal anastomosis after total colectomy for various conditions ; five patients underwent rectosigmoid end-to-end anastomosis after resection of a tumor or as treatment for diverticulitis . maximal stricture dilatation was attained in 20 instances with a single 15-30-mm balloon . in five procedures , two balloons ( 20 or 15 mm ) were inflated simultaneously ( " kissing balloons " technique ) to dilate the strictures . in five patients , only one dilation procedure was required for effective treatment of the strictures , with no clinical evidence of strictures after follow-up of 1.5-56 months ( mean , 29.5 months ) . in the other four patients , multiple procedures were performed : nine in one patient , five in one patient , and three in two patients . in these patients , no recurrent symptoms developed during follow-up of 1.25-18 months ( mean , 8.1 months ) after the last dilation . complicating leaks , infection , or hemorrhage did not occur after any of the procedures . fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation is a safe and effective procedure for the treatment of rectal strictures . 
renal artery stenosis : in vivo perfusion mr imaging . the intravoxel incoherent motion ( ivim ) model of perfusion and diffusion imaging was applied to an in vivo canine model of unilateral renal artery stenosis and was compared with relative renal blood flow determination with radioactive microspheres . the percentage relative renal blood flow as determined with radioactive microspheres correlated closely with the percentage apparent diffusion coefficient . if this method can be adapted to human imaging , it may provide a noninvasive means for detecting renal artery stenosis . 
pterygia : single-fraction postoperative beta irradiation . a retrospective evaluation was performed with records of 128 patients with 146 eyes that underwent applications of strontium-90 after pterygium excisions performed between 1982 and 1988 . with a median follow-up of 13 months , 135 eyes were evaluable . most pterygia ( 127 of 135 ) were treated with a single postoperative application of sr-90 that delivered 3,000 cgy of beta radiation in one fraction . the actuarial freedom from relapse was 87 % ; all recurrences occurred within the first 18 months , and 46 % of these within the first 3 months . of the 13 recurrences , 10 have been re-treated with surgery and a second course of beta irradiation with excellent results . all eight eyes for which follow-up was available had no evidence of disease . the ultimate control rate was 96.3 % for the series . correlation of various treatment parameters , including age , bilaterality , prior recurrence , and interval from surgery to irradiation , was performed , and no statistically significant difference was seen . no serious complications have developed . transient conjunctivitis and photophobia were almost universally seen , with five cases lasting beyond 5 months . the authors conclude that a single application of sr-90 after surgery is effective and safe in managing pterygia . 
diversity of outer membrane protein profiles of nontypable haemophilus influenzae from children from papua new guinea and the philippines . we determined capsular serotypes and , with use of sds-page , patterns of outer membrane proteins ( omp ) of haemophilus influenzae isolates from specimens of blood , lung , or csf from children with acute respiratory tract infections or meningitis who were hospitalized in papua new guinea or the philippines . among 72 isolates from papua new guinea , 72 % were type b , 14 % were other encapsulated serotypes , and 14 % were nontypable . the respective frequencies among 43 isolates from the philippines were 56 % , 7 % , and 37 % . the type b isolates could be subdivided into at least eight outer membrane subtypes , most of which have been described previously . in contrast , omp profiles of the nontypable h. influenzae isolates from children in both countries were highly heterogeneous . these results differ markedly from those previously found for isolates from children with acute respiratory tract infections in pakistan , for which encapsulated h. influenzae strains other than serotype b were not observed ; 95 % of type b isolates were of a single omp subtype ; and nontypable isolates showed evidence of clonal restriction . candidate vaccines for use in developing countries as protection against disease caused by h. influenzae will need to include both capsular and noncapsular antigens and investigators must take into consideration regional differences among strains . 
epidemiologic risk factors for children with acute lower respiratory tract infection in buenos aires , argentina : a matched case-control study . the risk factors that predisposed 516 hospitalized and 154 ambulatory patients to acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) are examined in a matched case-control study . the control group was selected from children attending immunization and well-baby clinics at the same institution that was treating the children with alri . sex , age , nutritional status , socioeconomic level , as well as season and place of residence were used as matching criteria . because of their distinct profiles , hospitalized and outpatient groups were analyzed separately . however , the four variables with the highest odds ratios ( incidence ratios or relative risk ) were found to be the same for both groups . these variables were related to the host 's condition ( bronchial hyperreactivity , presence of persistent symptoms of the upper respiratory tract ) , family ( presence of acute respiratory tract disease in household members ) , and environment ( indoor contaminants ) . 
epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infections among guatemalan ambulatory preschool children . acute respiratory tract infections ( ari ) were studied during a 2-year period in 521 preschool children living in a marginal area of guatemala city . there were 3,646 episodes of ari detected during 26,329 child-weeks at risk , for an incidence of 14 per 100 child-weeks or 7.2 episodes per child per year . the median duration of ari episodes was 11 days . the highest incidence of ari was observed in children 6-23 months old . boys had more respiratory tract illnesses than did girls ; the presence of a cigarette smoker in the household was associated with higher morbidity . acute lower respiratory tract illnesses ( alri ) were more common among younger infants 0-5 months old , with nutritional status having no apparent effect . parental formal education and crowding in households were found to be directly related to the incidence of alri . in general , ari morbidity interfered with appropriate physical growth . 
epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infections among young children in kenya . the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) was investigated in a rural community 80 km north of nairobi , kenya . this research was conducted prospectively on 250 families with 470 children less than 5 years of age who were contacted every 8 days during the 3-year study . the yearly incidence of respiratory tract infections decreased from 5.2 to 3.4 during the study ; less than 5 % of these infections involved the lower respiratory tract . the incidence was inversely related to age , and the illnesses were generally mild and brief in length . fifteen children died during the study period . the precise causes of death are unknown , but respiratory infections possibly played a role in most cases . this study emphasizes the importance of determining the risk factors responsible for unusually severe morbidity and high mortality in children with ari in developing countries . 
child care practices with respect to acute respiratory tract infection in a poor , urban community in nigeria . a longitudinal study conducted over a 3-year period in a poor , urban community in nigeria , a developing country , found that acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) was common , in particular among infants and boys . between 81 % and 95 % of the children treated for ari over the 3-year period were brought to the clinic by their mothers . about 32 % of these children had been treated with cough medicines , 42 % with antipyretics , 5 % with antibiotics , and 10 % with hematinics before they were brought to the clinic . the source of such medications included medicines left over from previous prescriptions and those bought from chemists ' shops and street vendors . up to 64 % of the children treated for ari had been force-fed local herbal teas by their mothers ; herbal teas were used for both preventive and curative purposes . 
acute respiratory tract infection in children in idikan community , ibadan , nigeria : severity , risk factors , and frequency of occurrence . a longitudinal , community-based study of the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) in children less than 5 years old was carried out in a community of low socioeconomic level in ibadan , nigeria . the annual incidence of ari ranged from 6.1 to 8.1 episodes per child per year . the incidence was highest in the first 2 years of life and decreased with increasing age . the incidence was higher in boys than in girls . ari occurred in all seasons of the year . the most common symptoms were cough , nasal discharge , and fever , while the most common signs referable to the respiratory tract were abnormal breathing sounds , tachypnea , and chest retraction . 
malnutrition and acute respiratory tract infections in filipino children . the impact of malnutrition on morbidity and mortality associated with acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) was studied in filipino children less than 5 years old . malnutrition measured by weight-for-age z-scores of less than -3 sd and less than -2 sd from the national center for health statistics median reference population was associated with the following significant relative risks of morbidity : 1.24 ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] = 1.14 , 1.34 ) and 1.14 ( 95 % ci = 1.08 , 1.19 ) , respectively , for ari ; and 1.9 ( 95 % ci = 1.46 , 2.39 ) and 1.2 ( 95 % ci = 1.03 , 1.47 ) , respectively , for acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) . these risk ratios remained significant when adjusted for age , crowding , and parental smoking . malnourished children with severe alri also had a mortality risk two to three times higher than that of healthy children . this risk remained significant even when adjusted for significant predictors of mortality , including clinical complications , concurrent measles , severe infections , and female gender ; and for clinical factors , including extent of pneumonic infiltrates , dehydration , and hepatic enlargement . these findings underscore the importance of nutritional intervention in the control of morbidity and mortality among patients with ari . 
clinicopathologic studies of children who die of acute lower respiratory tract infections : mechanisms of death . clinicopathologic correlations for 71 cases of fatal pneumonia in children were determined . the mechanism of death for these patients was multifactorial . severe pneumonia alone accounted for 11 deaths ( 15.5 % ) . pneumonia associated with sepsis occurred in 42 children ( 59.2 % ) . heart failure ( 8.5 % ) , hypovolemia ( 4.2 % ) , and nosocomial infection ( 12.6 % ) were also seen in children with fatal acute lower respiratory tract infection . extensive consolidation , squamous metaplasia , and hyaline membranes were present in the lungs of these children . patients with severe disease must receive , in addition to antibiotics for acute episodes , individualized intensive respiratory and supportive care . since these types of care are not available in poor communities , vaccination against measles and vitamin a supplementation for malnourished children may ameliorate the conditions that appear to predispose these children to severe or fatal disease . 
etiologic , clinical , and pathologic analysis of 31 fatal cases of acute respiratory tract infection in argentinian children under 5 years of age . during a 3-year survey of 805 children with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) who were admitted to three hospitals in buenos aires , 31 fatal cases were recorded -- a fatality rate of 3.8 % . of the 31 children who died , 77 % were less than 1 year of age , 48 % were boys , 58 % were malnourished , 29 % had previous respiratory disease , and 22 % had previous congenital disease . all children who died had clinical diagnoses of pneumonia ( 71 % ) or bronchiolitis ( 29 % ) . autopsies were performed in 14 of the cases . viral etiology was determined by both cell culture and indirect immunofluorescence ( iif ) assay of either nasopharyngeal aspirates ( npa ) or lung tissue and bacterial etiology was determined by isolation of organisms from blood , lung tissue , and/or pleural fluid . npa was examined for bordetella pertussis by iif . pathogens were identified in 65 % of fatal cases . seven cases were bacterial ; seven cases were viral ; and six cases resulted from mixed infections . lung tissue yielded positive etiologic results in 10 of 13 cases . histopathologic examination performed on specimens from the 14 autopsied children revealed necrotizing bronchiolitis with intranuclear inclusions ( n = 5 ) and multifocal pneumonia ( n = 9 ) . 
the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection in young children : comparison of findings from several developing countries . coordinated data group of bostid researchers . investigators from 10 countries studied the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) among children 0-59 months old . data on incidence rates , by age , gender , and season ; on pathogenic agents ; on case-fatality rates ; and on selected risk factor findings are presented . incidence rates from six of the community-based studies ranged from 12.7 to 16.8 new episodes of ari per 100 child-weeks at risk , and rates of lower respiratory tract infection ( lri ) ranged from 0.2 to 3.4 new episodes per 100 child-weeks at risk . children spend from 21.7 % to 40.1 % of observed weeks with ari and from 1 % to 14.4 % of observed weeks with lri . the incidence rates for ari are highest in younger children . viruses , especially respiratory syncytial virus , are isolated more frequently than bacteria from children with episodes of lri . risk factors exhibited different patterns of association with ari in different studies . interventions could have great impact on high-risk levels common in the study populations . these studies provide interesting and useful data on the epidemiologic dynamics of ari . 
etiologic and clinical evaluation of acute lower respiratory tract infections in young argentinian children : an overview . this paper summarizes the first study on clinical , etiologic , and epidemiologic features of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) in children in argentina . a total of 1,003 children less than 5 years of age ( 805 inpatients and 198 outpatients ) presenting with alri were studied during a 40-month period . nasopharyngeal aspirate ( npa ) , blood , urine , and throat-swab samples were collected when each child was first seen for care . virologic studies were performed on the npa by means of indirect immunofluorescence and isolation of virus in cell culture . bacteriologic studies primarily were done by means of culture of blood or pleural fluid ( when available ) ; bordetella pertussis and mycoplasma pneumoniae , however , were searched for by the use of immunofluorescence and complement-fixation testing , respectively , in paired sera . respiratory syncytial virus was the most commonly isolated virus , followed by adenovirus , parainfluenza virus , and influenza virus . streptococcus pneumoniae was the most frequently isolated bacterium , followed by b. pertussis and haemophilus influenzae type b. overall , the patient fatality rate was 3.8 % among inpatients with pneumonia or bronchiolitis . 
acute lower respiratory tract infections in hospitalized patients with diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh . this study focused on 401 children less than 5 years old who were hospitalized with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) and diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh , and who were investigated for the presence of both bacterial and viral respiratory tract pathogens as well as for selected diarrheal pathogens . the most common manifestations of alri were pneumonia ( 374 cases ) , bronchiolitis ( 12 cases ) , and tracheobronchitis ( 11 cases ) . the majority ( 77 % ) of the illnesses were in children less than 2 years of age , and 88 % of the children were malnourished . a respiratory tract pathogen was identified in 30 % of the patients , and a diarrheal pathogen was identified in 34 % . the overall case-fatality rate in children with alri and diarrhea was 8 % . the case-fatality rate was 14 % in children with bacterial pneumonia and diarrhea , 3 % in those with viral pneumonia and diarrhea , and 14 % in malnourished children with shigellosis and alri . the most common respiratory tract pathogens were respiratory syncytial virus , streptococcus pneumoniae , influenza viruses , and haemophilus influenzae type b. 
diagnoses of acute lower respiratory tract infections in children in rawalpindi and islamabad , pakistan . a hospital-based inpatient and outpatient study of 1,492 cases of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) was conducted from november 1986 to march 1988 in two hospitals in rawalpindi and islamabad , pakistan . specimens of nasopharyngeal aspirate were processed for viral studies in all cases ; blood cultures were performed in 1,331 cases ; and urine was obtained for detection of bacterial antigen in 378 cases , but 227 of these samples had bacterial contamination and were discarded . respiratory syncytial virus was identified in 33 % of cases , and haemophilus influenzae and streptococcus pneumoniae were identified in 9.6 % and 9.9 % of cases , respectively . nonencapsulated h. influenzae accounted for 32 % of the haemophilus isolates , and type b was the only encapsulated h. influenzae strain identified . of the s. pneumoniae serotypes isolated , 31 % are not included in the currently available polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine . no clinical characteristic was demonstrated to be a reliable indicator for bacterial alri . 
etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection in children from alabang , metro manila . the etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) was identified in 235 ( 43.8 % ) of 537 hospitalized children less than 5 years of age . clinical evidence of measles was found in 258 ( 48.0 % ) patients , of whom 59 had a second viral infection . a viral agent was identified in an additional 121 patients , so that a total of 379 ( 70.6 % ) had viral infections . after measles , respiratory syncytial virus was the most common respiratory virus . bacteremia was noted in 72 children ( 13.4 % ) , occurring as frequently in children with measles ( 14.8 % ) as in those without ( 12.1 % ) ; haemophilus influenzae and salmonella typhi were predominant in the former , and h. influenzae , staphylococcus aureus , and streptococcus pneumoniae were prominent in the latter . the presence of bacterial antigen in urine was not helpful in identifying bacterial infection . extrapulmonary and intrapleural complications , concomitant measles , complicated alri , female gender , and malnutrition were associated with increased mortality among children with alri . the importance of measles immunization , vitamin a supplementation for alleviation of defects associated with malnutrition , and timely antimicrobial therapy is emphasized . 
patterns of acute respiratory tract infection in children : a longitudinal study in a depressed community in metro manila . the incidences of acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) and acute lower respiratory infection ( alri ) were 6.1 and 0.5 per child-year , respectively , in children less than 5 years old in a depressed urban community in manila . the peak age-specific incidence occurred in those children 6-23 months old for ari and 6-11 months old for alri . age less than 2 years , malnutrition , household crowding , and parental smoking were associated with a statistically significant , though modest , increase in ari morbidity . the crude mortality rate was 14.3 per 1,000 children 0-4 years old , with a corresponding ari-specific mortality rate of 8.9 per 1,000 . the prevalence of viral infection was 32.8 and that of bacteremic alri was 6.7 per 1,000 children with moderate alri . respiratory syncytial virus was the predominant viral pathogen , while streptococcus pneumoniae , haemophilus influenzae , and staphylococcus aureus were the most frequently isolated bacterial pathogens . transmission of respiratory pathogens in depressed communities , facilitated by inadequate housing , inaccessible health services , and prevalent malnutrition , will continue unless meaningful socioeconomic improvement is realized . 
acute respiratory tract infections among a birth cohort of children from cali , colombia , who were studied through 17 months of age . for this study , 340 children less than 18 months old from a low-income , urban neighborhood in cali , colombia , were observed from birth by means of weekly home visits to detect cases of acute respiratory tract infection . all suspected cases were confirmed by trained doctors in a special clinic . information on symptoms , signs , and potential risk factors was documented prospectively . etiologic agents were identified in cases of lower respiratory tract infection ( lri ) . the overall incidence of acute respiratory tract infection was 6.6 cases per child-year at risk . the incidence of upper respiratory tract infection was 4.9 cases per child-year at risk and that of lri was 1.7 cases per child-year at risk . crowding in the home was found to be significantly associated with an increased incidence of lri . respiratory syncytial virus was the viral agent most frequently isolated from cultures of nasopharyngeal aspirates of children with lri . staphylococcus aureus was the bacterial agent most frequently isolated from the blood of patients with lri . 
a community-based study of acute respiratory tract infection in thai children . a 2-year longitudinal study was conducted among the population of a socioeconomically depressed urban community in bangkok , thailand , from january 1986 through december 1987 to determine the incidence , etiologic agents , and risk factors associated with acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) in children less than 5 years of age . data were obtained for a total of 674 children , who were visited twice weekly for detection of signs and symptoms of ari . during the first year of the study , throat-swab specimens were obtained for bacterial culture from both ill and healthy children and a nasal wash was performed on mildly ill children for detection of virus . during both years of the study , nasopharyngeal aspiration for identification of virus was performed for children with more severe infection . the overall incidence of ari was 11.2 episodes per child-year . the highest ( 14.9 ) and lowest ( 8.8 ) rates per child-year occurred in age groups 6-11 months and 48-59 months , respectively . respiratory syncytial virus , parainfluenza virus , adenovirus , streptococcus pneumoniae , and haemophilus influenzae were the prevalent pathogenic agents identified . factors associated with higher risk of ari were low family income , working mothers , mothers with allergies , chronic malnutrition , and crowding in the home . 
a community-based study of acute respiratory tract infections in children in uruguay . acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) was investigated in children less than 5 years old in a longitudinal community-based study of 166 families living in a socioeconomically depressed area in montevideo , uruguay . pediatricians made home visits every 10 days from may 1985 to december 1987 , and symptoms and signs of ari were recorded . the incidence of ari was 5.8 episodes per child-year during the first 12 months of life and decreased with increasing age of the index children ; the rate was highest in children 1-5 months old . children observed from birth were ill during 21 % of the visits . according to the definitions of the study , the incidence of lower respiratory tract infection was 11.6 % higher than the incidence of upper respiratory tract infections . the rates of ari were higher during the colder months . most risk factors for ari were only marginally statistically significant . 
acute lower respiratory tract infection due to virus among hospitalized children in dhaka , bangladesh . the nature of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) in hospitalized children and of the associated viral agents was assessed in a study of 601 children less than 5 years old over a 24-month period . of these children , 80 % were less than 24 months of age and the ratio of boys to girls was 1.7:1 . pneumonia ( 86.5 % of cases ) was the most frequently observed clinical manifestation . shedding of virus was detected in 21.1 % of the children ; the highest rate occurred in infants 0-5 months old ( 27 % ) as compared with a rate of only 12.5 % in children 25-60 months old . virus was detected in 33.3 % , 32.8 % , 21.2 % , and 20 % of the cases of tracheobronchitis , bronchiolitis , pneumonia , and croup , respectively . among the viruses detected , 78 % were respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) ( 91 % of infections with this virus occurred in children less than 2 years old ) and 14.4 % were influenza virus types a and b. of the rsv infections , 61 % occurred in infants less than 1 year old . the case-fatality rate was 6.8 % overall and was 4.8 % in virus-associated cases . no consistent pattern of seasonal occurrence of viral infections was discerned . rsv was detected throughout the year , with increased prevalence from january to april . 
a hospital-based study of acute viral infections of the respiratory tract in thai children , with emphasis on laboratory diagnosis . the hospital-based study described here examined the viruses found in 738 children less than 5 years old who presented at ramathibodi hospital , bangkok , thailand , from january 1986 to december 1987 with acute respiratory tract infections . three methods for detection of viral infection are compared : direct examination of epithelial cells of the respiratory tract with the use of fluorescent antibody staining , isolation of virus , and measurement of antibody in acute - and convalescent-phase sera . viral infections were found in 44.7 % of the study population . diagnosis by the examination of epithelial cells with the fluorescent antibody staining procedure was found to have several deficiencies ; however , this technique was the most sensitive for diagnosis of infection due to respiratory syncytial virus . isolation of virus was the best method for identification of adenoviruses , parainfluenza 1 and 3 viruses , and influenza b virus . problems associated with serodiagnosis included failure to obtain specimens of convalescent-phase blood in 24.5 % of cases and insensitivity of serodiagnosis for young children except for the identification of antibody to influenza a virus . the combination of all three tests yielded the best rate of detection of virus . 
identification of viruses in a study of acute respiratory tract infection in children from uruguay . for the purpose of identifying viral agents associated with acute respiratory tract infections ( ari ) in children less than 5 years old , a longitudinal community study was undertaken in montevideo , uruguay , from may 1985 to december 1987 . this report includes results obtained by cell culture and immunofluorescence techniques for detection of respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) , influenza a and b viruses , parainfluenza 1 and 3 viruses , and adenovirus . two populations were studied : children visited at home by pediatricians ( group 1 ) and children with an ari episode who attended an outpatient clinic ( group 2 ) . nasopharyngeal aspirates were obtained at the time of an ari episode : 858 from group 1 and 488 from group 2 . viruses were identified in 15.3 % of group 1 specimens and in 17.6 % of group 2 specimens . rsv was the most frequently recovered agent , accounting for 67.9 % and 58.1 % , respectively , of all viruses detected . the sensitivity and specificity of rsv isolation by cell culture are compared with detection by indirect immunofluorescence . 
characterization of " peak e , " a novel amino acid associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . epidemiologic studies strongly associate eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) with ingestion of tryptophan containing a contaminant ( " peak e " ) . prior reports have suggested that peak e is the di-tryptophan n alpha-animal of acetaldehyde . spectral and chemical studies now demonstrate that peak e is 1,1 ' - ethylidenebis [ tryptophan ] . this novel amino acid may be the etiological agent responsible for ems , or it may be a marker of a still unidentified causal agent . 
inheritance of proliferative breast disease in breast cancer kindreds . previous studies have emphasized that genetic susceptibility to breast cancer is rare and is expressed primarily as premenopausal breast cancer , bilateral breast cancer , or both . proliferative breast disease ( pbd ) is a significant risk factor for the development of breast cancer and appears to be a precursor lesion . pbd and breast cancer were studied in 103 women from 20 kindreds that were selected for the presence of two first degree relatives with breast cancer and in 31 control women . physical examination , screening mammography , and four-quadrant fine-needle breast aspirates were performed . cytologic analysis of breast aspirates revealed pbd in 35 % of clinically normal female first degree relatives of breast cancer cases and in 13 % of controls . genetic analysis suggests that genetic susceptibility causes both pbd and breast cancer in these kindreds . this study supports the hypothesis that this susceptibility is responsible for a considerable portion of breast cancer , including unilateral and postmenopausal breast cancer . 
dominant negative regulation of the mouse alpha-fetoprotein gene in adult liver . transcription of the mouse alpha-fetoprotein gene is activated in the developing fetal liver and gut and repressed in both tissues shortly after birth . with germline transformation in mice , a cis-acting element was identified upstream of the transcription initiation site of the alpha-fetoprotein gene that was responsible for repression of the gene in adult liver . this negative element acts as a repressor in a position-dependent manner . 
hot spots for growth hormone gene deletions in homologous regions outside of alu repeats . familial growth hormone deficiency type 1a is an autosomal recessive disease caused by deletion of both growth hormone-1 ( gh1 ) alleles . ten patients from heterogeneous geographic origins showed differences in restriction fragment length polymorphism haplotypes in nondeleted regions that flanked gh1 , suggesting that these deletions arose from independent unequal recombination events . deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) samples from nine of ten patients showed that crossovers occurred within 99 % homologous , 594-base pair ( bp ) segments that flanked gh1 . a dna sample from one patient indicated that the crossover occurred within 454-bp segments that flanked gh1 and contained 274-bp repeats that are 98 % homologous . although alu repeats , which are frequent sites of recombination , are adjacent to gh1 , they were not involved in any of the recombination events studied . these results suggest that length and degree of dna sequence homology are important in defining recombination sites that resulted in gh1 deletions . 
methylation-sensitive sequence-specific dna binding by the c-myc basic region . the function of the c-myc oncoprotein and its role in cell growth control is unclear . a basic region of c-myc is structurally related to the basic motifs of helix-loop-helix ( hlh ) and leucine zipper proteins , which provide sequence-specific dna binding function . the c-myc basic region was tested for its ability to bind dna by attaching it to the hlh dimerization interface of the e12 enhancer binding factor . dimers of the chimeric protein , termed e6 , specifically bound an e box element ( ggccacgtgacc ) recognized by other hlh proteins in a manner dependent on the integrity of the c-myc basic motif . methylation of the core cpg in the e box recognition site specifically inhibited binding by e6 , but not by two other hlh proteins . expression of e6 ( but not an e6 dna binding mutant ) suppressed the ability of c-myc to cooperate with h-ras in a rat embryo fibroblast transformation assay , suggesting that the dna recognition specificity of e6 is related to that of c-myc in vivo . 
death and functional outcome after spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage . a prospective study of 166 cases using multivariate analysis using death and functional status as end points , we prospectively analyzed the outcome 6 months after spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage in 166 patients admitted to an acute-care stroke unit on the first day of their stroke . seventy-one patients ( 43 % ) died , 69 ( 42 % ) had a satisfactory outcome , and 26 ( 16 % ) had a poor functional outcome . early ( 30-day ) survival was correlated with morphologic parameters on the initial computed tomogram ( hemorrhage size , midline shift , and intraventricular spread of the hemorrhage ) , while later ( 6-month ) survival was correlated with age . using logistic regression , we found five independent predictors of satisfactory outcome at 6 months : age , hemorrhage size , intraventricular spread of the hemorrhage , limb paresis , and communication disorders . of these , age was the most important predictor by far . 
activation of coagulation in acute cardioembolic stroke . the hematologic disorders in patients with acute cardioembolic stroke are not fully understood , and no reliable measures are available to identify patients at high risk for recurrent embolism . we analyzed coagulation and fibrinolytic functions in 22 patients with cardiogenic cerebral embolism less than or equal to 24 hours after onset and in 25 age-matched controls . the levels of antithrombin iii , protein c , and alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor were significantly lower in the patients than in the controls ( p less than 0.001 , 0.02 , and 0.05 , respectively ) . in contrast , the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer were markedly higher in the patients than in the controls ( p less than 0.01 and 0.001 , respectively ) . at the time of admission , the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization ( one with prodromal embolism , three with intracardiac thrombi , and four with recurrent embolization ) were 2.8 and 3.5 times , respectively , higher than those in the 14 patients without recurrence or thrombus formation . the lowest concentration of crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization was 600 ng/ml on admission . our results suggest that patients with acute cardioembolic stroke have various degrees of consumption coagulopathy and that the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer can be useful indicators of those who are prone to recurrent embolization during this stage . 
mild hypothermic intervention after graded ischemic stress in rats . we investigated the effect of mild ( 34 degrees c ) postischemic hypothermia on hippocampal neuronal damage in 43 rats as a function of the duration of forebrain ischemia . two temperatures and two durations were investigated . in two normothermic groups ischemia lasted 8 ( n = 15 ) and 12 ( n = 10 ) minutes , respectively . in two hypothermic groups ischemia lasted 8 ( n = 9 ) and 12 ( n = 9 ) minutes , respectively , and was followed immediately by the lowering and maintenance of rectal temperature to 34 degrees c for 2 hours . seven days after the ischemic insult , the rats were sacrificed and the brains were prepared for histologic analysis ; the percentage of necrotic neurons among the total neuronal population in selected ca1/2 sectors of the hippocampus was determined . there was a significant decrease in the percentage of necrotic neurons in the central ( 77.5 % versus 55.5 % , p = 0.006 ) and lateral ( 62.5 % versus 38.9 % , p = 0.005 ) areas and in the overall ca1/2 sector of the hippocampus ( 71.8 % versus 52.2 % , p = 0.008 ) for the 8-minute hypothermic group compared with the 8-minute normothermic group . in contrast , no differences were detected in any area of the hippocampus between the 12-minute normothermic and the 12-minute hypothermic groups ( p = 0.29-0 .49 ) . our data indicate that mild postischemic whole-body hypothermia ameliorates neuronal survival when ischemia lasts 8 minutes but not 12 minutes . 
effect of hypoxia on cerebral metabolites measured by proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in rats . proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy is a unique method to monitor noninvasively the concentrations of cerebral metabolites . n-acetyl-l-aspartate , the concentration of which is assumed to be stable during hypoxia , has been used to form ratios with lactate . to determine the stability of the signal from n-acetyl-l-aspartate , we used a model of graded hypoxia in rats to monitor the percentage changes from baseline of the peak heights for lactate , lipids , and n-acetyl-l-aspartate . anesthetized adult rats were exposed sequentially to 15 % and 10 % o2 while proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were collected with a surface coil in a 7-t 89-mm-bore spectrometer . brain lactate concentration was either increased by feeding or infusion of glucose ( n = 9 ) or lowered by fasting ( n = 7 ) . after death the brains were removed and frozen , and the water - and lipid-soluble compounds were extracted to identify the origin of the signals . we analyzed the data both as the percentage change from baseline for heights of the lactate ( 1.33 ppm ) , lipids ( 1.5 ppm ) , and n-acetyl-l-aspartate ( 2.02 ppm ) peaks and as the ratios of heights of the 1.33 and 2.02 and the 1.5 and 2.02 ppm peaks . both hypoxic episodes caused a 45 % decrease from baseline in the 2.02 ppm peak . during the second hypoxic episode , the 1.33:2.02 ppm peak height ratio increased significantly in hyperglycemic rats ( p less than 0.05 ) but was unchanged in hypoglycemic rats . 
recurrent transient ischemic attacks and stroke in association with an internal carotid artery web fibromuscular dysplasia is a nonatherosclerotic vascular disease that most commonly affects cervical carotid arteries at the c1-c2 level when cephalic arteries are involved . several histopathologic and angiographic subtypes of fibromuscular dysplasia exist ; most have a benign natural history . we describe the third reported case of a pathologically proven , symptomatic proximal internal carotid artery web and suggest that patients with this lesion are at a higher risk for stroke . 
achieving ph control in the critically ill patient : the role of continuous infusion of h2-receptor antagonists . stress-related gastric mucosal damage is a common occurrence in intensive care unit ( icu ) patients . because of the significant morbidity and mortality associated with this mucosal damage , many icu patients routinely receive prophylactic therapy , usually with histamine h2-receptor antagonists ( h2ras ) . gastric acid secretion occurs in a circadian pattern , with late afternoon and evening surges . h2ras by continuous infusion may control this uneven pattern of secretion more effectively than h2ras given by bolus injection . more studies are needed to identify the target icu population for prophylactic treatment . 
hemodynamic effects of h2-receptor antagonists . histamine h2-receptor antagonists ( h2ras ) often are administered to intensive care unit patients in an attempt to reduce gastric acidity and to prevent stress-related mucosal damage . these agents have an extremely low overall incidence and severity of adverse reactions ; however , hemodynamically significant hypotension has been noted . clinical studies with rapidly administered intravenous cimetidine in critically ill patients have demonstrated a depression in blood pressure in up to 75 percent of patients . ranitidine , also studied in this setting , does not appear to induce similar hemodynamic changes . the newer h2ras , famotidine and nizatidine , have not been evaluated in critically ill patients . 
use of h2-receptor antagonists in children . h2-receptor antagonists ( h2ras ) have evolved into the mainstay of anti-acid therapy for pediatric patients , replacing antacids and other modes of therapy . much of the experience and data used for therapeutic decisions in children , however , have been extrapolated from adult studies . ranitidine and cimetidine have been studied most extensively in the adult and pediatric populations . both raise gastric ph and achieve other therapeutic endpoints ; however , cimetidine appears to have a greater frequency of both adversed effects and drug interactions . h2ras are the preferred agents for prevention of stress ulcers , ulcer disease , and reflux esophagitis in the pediatric population . 
pathophysiologic changes in the critically ill patient : risk factors for ulceration and altered drug metabolism . virtually all patients who are under the physiologic stress of an intensive care unit ( icu ) are vulnerable to stress-related mucosal damage and ulceration . although clinically significant hemorrhage from stress ulceration occurs in only 5-20 percent of patients in the icu , the associated mortality is greater than 50 percent . the pathophysiologic mechanisms of stress ulcer are not well understood ; however , a number of risk factors such as intraluminal gastric acidity and mucosal ischemia have been implicated . to prevent the development of stress ulcers and subsequent complications , it is important to identify and correct these underlying risk factors . improving mucosal blood flow ( i.e. , fluid resuscitation and low-dose dopamine ) and providing adequate nutritional support are invaluable adjuncts in minimizing the risk of stress ulcer formation . the use of pharmacologic prophylaxis controls the gastric acidity and prevents the formation of stress ulcers . the potential for drug-induced adverse effects and drug-drug interactions are of particular concern in the care of critically ill patients . multiple organ system dysfunction or failure , malnutrition , fluid and electrolyte abnormalities , as well as the use of multiple pharmacologic agents predispose these patients to alterations in drug pharmacokinetics , drug-induced adverse effects and drug-drug interactions . these changes may alter the pharmacodynamic response to therapy and must be considered when designing drug dosage regimens for critically ill patients . 
ondansetron : a new entity in emesis control . nausea and vomiting are serious problems for patients receiving cancer chemotherapy . dopamine receptor and cholinergic receptor antagonism have been the target mechanism for agents used to combat drug-induced nausea and vomiting ; more recently , blockade of serotonin receptors has been used for this indication . current therapies are limited by extrapyramidal adverse effects , as well as drowsiness , sedation , respiratory depression , and cardiac effects . ondansetron is an investigational serotonin antagonist that has documented effectiveness for cancer chemotherapy-induced emesis . ondansetron appears to be well tolerated , with the possible exception of headaches and transient increases in liver enzymes . no extrapyramidal toxicities have been reported with this agent . while ondansetron looks promising , further studies are needed to fully define its role as an antiemetic . 
pathophysiology , monitoring , and management of the ventilator-dependent patient : considerations for drug therapy , emphasis on stress ulcer prophylaxis . adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , or noncardiac pulmonary edema , is a form of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure . the goals of treatment for patients with ards are to provide supportive therapy , to reverse the underlying etiology or pathology , and to prevent subsequent complications . supportive therapy consists of supplemental oxygen , positive end-expiratory pressure , and , often , mechanical ventilation . the reversal of the underlying pathology varies according to the etiologic origin of ards . complications from ards include stress ulcers , which occur when gastric aggressive and defensive functions become unbalanced . antacids and cytoprotective agents are used for stress ulcer prophylaxis , but histamine h2-receptor antagonists are now regarded as the standard of care . because all the marketed h2-receptor antagonists are efficacious , choice of the agent is based on the adverse effect profile and drug interactions . no definitive data currently exist linking stress ulcer prophylaxis regimens that raise intragastric ph to a significant risk for nosocomial pneumonia . 
in-hospital symptoms of psychological stress as predictors of long-term outcome after acute myocardial infarction in men . the impact of high levels of psychological stress symptoms in the hospital after an acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) was examined over 5 years among 461 men who took part in a trial of psychological stress monitoring and intervention . psychological stress was assessed using the 20-item general health questionnaire ( ghq ) 1 to 2 days before hospital discharge . once discharged , patients in the treatment group responded to the ghq by telephone on a monthly basis and , when they reported high levels of stress symptoms ( ghq greater than or equal to 5 ) , received visits from nurses to help them deal with their life problems . control patients received routine medical care after discharge . post-hoc subgroup analyses based on life-table methods showed that , for patients receiving routine care after discharge , high stress ( ghq greater than or equal to 5 ) was associated with a close to threefold increase in risk of cardiac mortality over 5 years ( p = 0.0003 ) and an approximately 1.5-fold increase in risk of reinfarction over the same period ( p = 0.09 ) . in contrast , highly stressed patients who took part in the 1-year program of stress monitoring and intervention did not experience any significant long-term increase in risk . although program impact was significant in terms of reduction of both cardiac mortality ( p = 0.006 ) and ami recurrences ( p = 0.004 ) among highly stressed patients , there was little evidence of impact among patients with low levels of stress in the hospital . 
early assessment of coronary artery bypass graft patency by high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography . to assess the role of high-dose ( up to 0.84 mg/kg during 10 minutes ) dipyridamole echocardiographic testing in the evaluation of coronary artery bypass graft patency early after surgery , 18 consecutive patients with angina underwent dipyridamole echocardiography and coronary angiography before and 7 to 10 days after bypass surgery . coronary angiography showed 2 - or 3-vessel disease in 7 and 11 patients , respectively . a total of 53 bypass grafts were performed . before bypass surgery 14 patients had a positive and 4 a negative test result . no complication occurred during the test performed early after surgery . of the 14 patients with positive dipyridamole echocardiographic results before surgery , 10 had negative and 4 had positive results after surgery . all 4 patients had negative results before and after surgery . in the 4 patients with positive results after dipyridamole echocardiographic testing before and after bypass surgery , dipyridamole time increased from 5.8 + / - 5 to 9.3 + / - 0.9 minutes ( p = 0.3 ) after the procedure and wall motion score index at peak dipyridamole changed from 1.55 + / - 0.2 to 1.28 + / - 0.3 ( p = 0.05 ) . forty-nine of 53 grafts were patent as seen on angiography . dipyridamole echocardiographic results were positive in 4 of 5 patients who had at least 1 obstructed graft or native vessel obstructed distal to bypass graft insertion . the remaining patient had diagnostic electrocardiographic changes during dipyridamole infusion without wall motion abnormalities . dipyridamole echocardiographic results were negative in all 13 patients who had complete revascularization . in the 4 patients with positive test results , the procedure correctly identified the localization of the diseased bypass graft . 
sudden death during empiric amiodarone therapy in symptomatic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . amiodarone is reported to improve symptoms and to prevent sudden death in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( hc ) . amiodarone treatment ( loading dose 30 g given over 6 weeks ; maintenance dose 400 mg/day ) was prospectively evaluated in 50 patients with hc in whom the drug was initiated because of symptoms refractory to conventional drug therapy ( calcium antagonists and beta blockers ) . twenty-one ( 42 % ) patients had ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) during holter monitoring . amiodarone significantly and often markedly improved the patients ' new york heart association functional class status ( from 3.3 to 2.7 at 2 months , p less than 0.001 ) and treadmill exercise duration ( p less than 0.001 ) . eight patients , however , died ( 7 suddenly ) during a mean follow-up period of 2.2 + / - 1.8 years . of the 7 sudden deaths , 6 occurred within 5 months of initiation of treatment . the 6-month and 1 - and 2-year survival rates were 87 , 85 and 80 % , respectively . the survival rate of patients with vt was significantly worse than that of patients without vt ( 61 vs 97 % at 2 years ; p less than 0.01 ) . sudden death occurred despite abolition of vt on holter monitoring . amiodarone increased left ventricular peak filling rate by radionuclide angiography in 20 of 33 patients ( 61 % ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . decrease in peak left ventricular filling rate within 10 days of amiodarone therapy ( 8 of 33 patients ) was associated with subsequent sudden death ( p less than 0.04 ) . 
value of electrophysiologic studies in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy treated with amiodarone . the relation of electrophysiologic effects of amiodarone to long-term outcome was studied in 35 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( hc ) . indications for electrophysiologic studies were : cardiac arrest ( n = 3 ) , syncope/presyncope ( n = 27 ) and asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) ( n = 5 ) . twenty-eight patients ( 80 % ) had vt , 3 ( 9 % ) atrial tachycardia and 3 ( 9 % ) paroxysmal atrial fibrillation during 24-hour holter monitoring . the studies were repeated after a total amiodarone dose of 58 + / - 122 g and during a maintenance median daily dose of 400 mg . amiodarone abolished paroxysmal atrial arrhythmias in all 6 patients . however , it caused marked atrioventricular nodal conduction abnormality in 3 patients and heart block or marked hv interval prolongation ( to greater than or equal to 100 ms ) in 4 patients . sustained vt was induced in 26 patients ( 74 % ) at baseline study and in 23 patients ( 66 % ) taking amiodarone therapy . with amiodarone , vt was no longer inducible or was more difficult to induce in 11 patients ( 31 % ) , and the drug abolished vt during holter monitoring in all patients . however , vt was easier to induce with amiodarone or was induced only with amiodarone in 18 ( 51 % ) patients . amiodarone significantly slowed the rate of induced vt ( from 248 + / - 29 to 214 + / - 37 beats/min , p less than 0.001 ) . this was associated with a change in its morphology from polymorphic to monomorphic vt in 7 patients . during a follow up of 18 + / - 14 months ( range 2 to 56 ) , amiodarone was discontinued because of adverse effects in 8 patients ( 23 % ) . 
diagnostic value of dna analysis in effusions by flow cytometry and image analysis . a prospective study on 102 patients as compared with cytologic examination one hundred twenty-six effusion samples from 102 patients were examined by cytology and flow cytometry ( fcm ) . overall , there was an 84 % correlation between cytologic and fcm results . of the 36 malignant cases determined by cytologic examination , fcm revealed an aneuploid peak in 20 ( 56 % ) . image analysis ( ia ) performed on the malignant cytologic cases with a diploid flow pattern detected two additional aneuploid peaks . in addition , fcm indicated three aneuploid cases in which cytologic characteristics were initially interpreted as benign ( false negative ) . aneuploidy was therefore detected in 64 % of the malignant effusion specimens by fcm and ia . twenty-three of the total of 24 aneuploid cases detected by fcm were associated with malignancy ( predictive value = 96 % ) . the one nonmalignant case was that of hemorrhagic pancreatitis with infected pseudocyst . fcm is an excellent tool when moderate to large numbers of tumor cells are present , whereas use of ia is advantageous for specimens containing smaller numbers of malignant cells because these can be directly analyzed . when an aneuploid peak is present , a diagnosis of malignancy must be suspected , and , if the initial cytologic screen is negative , a critical review of the cytology slides is justified . in those cases with an equivocal atypical cytology report and an abnormal cytometric histogram , additional investigation is warranted . in some malignancies the tumor cells will be diploid ( in this study 36 % ) and neither fcm nor ia will add to tumor detection , leaving cytologic examination as the definitive technique . 
evolution of in vitro transformation and tumorigenesis of hpv16 and hpv18 immortalized primary cervical epithelial cells . cervical carcinoma develops through a progressive spectrum of premalignant intraepithelial lesions ( cin i-iii ) , the majority of which are associated with human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 16 and 18 . we established hpv16 and hpv18 immortalized human cervical epithelial cell lines and used them as a model to investigate the genesis and progression of cervical malignancy . the cell lines when cultured in vitro in a system mimicking their in vivo environment exhibit cytologic atypia and a variety of defects in morphologic differentiation at early passage compared to their normal counterparts . with increased passage , these alterations progress to more severe grades , histologically similar to cin iii ; however only a limited number of the cell lines are tumorigenic , mimicking the epidemiologic evidence on the rate of conversion from premalignant to invasive carcinoma . the observed changes are not associated with alterations of viral dna integration or expression and may reflect specific cellular events or changes in virus-host interactions associated with malignant progression . 
phenotypic relationships of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia to invasive prostatic carcinoma . thirty-one snap-frozen human prostate specimens containing examples of benign hyperplasia , prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( pin ) , and invasive carcinoma were analyzed using a panel of 24 antibodies and one lectin . twenty-seven additional routinely processed radical prostatectomy specimens were studied using selected probes known to work on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material . three probes , anticytokeratin ka4 , anti-vimentin v9 , and the lectin from ulex europaeus ( uea-1 ) , demonstrated phenotypic similarities between pin and invasive carcinoma . whereas the luminal cells of normal or hyperplastic prostatic epithelium are minimally reactive with ka4 ( 4 % ) or uea-1 ( 0 % ) and strongly reactive with anti-vimentin ( 91 % ) , both the pin and invasive carcinoma are reactive with ka4 ( 89 % and 93 % , respectively ) and uea-1 ( 96 % and 93 % , respectively ) and minimally reactive with anti-vimentin ( 15 % and 0 % , respectively ) . the increased ka4 staining was shown to be in part due to detection of cytokeratin 19 , by using cytokeratin-19-specific antibodies , 4.62 and lp2k . the reasons for the increased expression of this cytokeratin and the decreased expression of vimentin are unclear but seem to indicate a phenotypic relationship between the pin lesions and invasive carcinoma . 
increased microvascular permeability in vivo in response to intradermal injection of neutrophil-activating protein ( nap-2 ) in rabbit skin . neutrophil-activating protein-2 ( nap-2 ) , an nh2-terminally processed form of the platelet-release product beta thromboglobulin ( beta tg ) , was purified to homogeneity from stimulated human blood leukocytes . in the presence of a vasodilator substance ( pge2 , cgrp ) picomolar ( pmol/l ) amounts of nap-2 induced neutrophil accumulation and plasma leakage on intradermal injection in rabbit skin , whereas the longer forms , beta tg itself and connective tissue-activating peptide iii ( ctap-iii ) , had no such effect . nap-2-induced increased in microvascular permeability was neutrophil dependent and fast in onset , with a half-life of 65 to 75 minutes , comparable to that previously reported for the structural-related neutrophil-activating protein-1 / interleukin-8 ( nap-1 / il-8 ) . however nap-2 showed a lower potency in that more protein was needed to provoke skin reactivity . nevertheless the finding that a platelet release product can elicit neutrophil-mediated inflammation further narrows the gap between thrombotic events and inflammatory disorders . 
genetic determination of cytomegalovirus-induced and age-related cardiopathy in inbred mice . characterization of infiltrating cells . carditis developed 7 days after the administration of murine cytomegalovirus to neonatal , young adult or aged mice of varying sensitivity to lethal infection with this virus . the inflammation persisted for up to 80 days , but infected myocardial cells were rare and were not seen after day 10 . the inflammatory cells comprised macrophages ( up to 30 % ) and t cells ( up to 80 % ) , with a high ratio of lyt2 + to l3t4 + cells throughout . although the h-2 genotype affects murine cytomegalovirus replication at the level of individual cells , and hence resistance to lethal infection , it did not determine resistance to cardiopathy per se . however balb/c , balb.b , and balb.k mice developed persistent myocarditis regardless of age at infection , and age-related cardiopathy was frequent and severe in infected and uninfected mice . b10 and b10.br mice also developed myocarditis after neonatal infection , but inflammation resolved rapidly after adult infection and age-related cardiopathy was correspondingly mild . c3h mice exhibited minimal carditis after neonatal or adult infection . however neonatal infection appears to accelerate age-related cardiopathy , which is severe in retired breeders of this strain . 
somatostatin analogue treatment inhibits post-resectional adaptation of the small bowel in rats . post-resectional hyperplasia is the phenomenon in which residual small bowel increases in size and absorptive capacity after segmental enterectomy . this experiment studied the effect of somatostatin analogue therapy on the development of two structural parameters of post-resectional hyperplasia in rats subjected to 40 % proximal small bowel resection . octreotide acetate-treated rats failed to develop increased villus height ( 902 + / - 50 microns ) relative to saline-treated rats ( 1,103 + / - 98 microns ) . augmentation of residual intestinal weight was also significantly impaired in analogue-treated rats ( 92 + / - 3 versus 118 + / - 5 mg/cm ) . we conclude that somatostatin analogue treatment during the early postoperative period does impair the growth of residual bowel in rats . these findings raise concern regarding the use of this drug for postoperative patients who have undergone massive small bowel resection in whom the process of post-resectional adaptation may be critical to allow sustenance with enteral nutrition . 
surgical management of nonparasitic cystic liver disease . we report clinical features , surgical management , recurrences , and follow-up study of 12 patients with simple hepatic cyst , 11 patients with polycystic liver disease , and 19 patients with cystadenoma who were surgically treated over a 25-year period . the median age of patients was 48 years , and 37 women and 5 men were in the series . the most common presenting symptom and physical finding were chronic abdominal pain and tenderness in the right upper quadrant . the most commonly associated disease was polycystic kidney disease , which was an associated finding in 5 of the 11 patients with polycystic liver disease ( 45 % ) . the most valuable diagnostic studies in all groups were computed tomography and ultrasonography . the location of the disease was bilobar in patients with polycystic liver disease , with a right lobe predominance in 18 % of patients . the right lobe was also predominant in 83 % of patients with simple hepatic cyst and 58 % of patients with cystadenoma . of all solitary cystic lesions in the left lobe , 75 % of them were cystadenomas . of the 66 surgical procedures performed , aspiration was associated with a failure rate of 100 % ; partial excision , a failure rate of 61 % ; and total excision and liver resection , a failure rate of 0 % . orthotopic liver transplantation was performed in three patients and was associated with two early deaths . partial excision relieved symptoms in three patients ( 43 % ) with polycystic liver disease . total excision , enucleation , or liver resection with cyst ( s ) is the treatment of choice for non-parasitic cystic lesions of the liver . 
prospective , randomized trial of the biofragmentable anastomosis ring . the bar investigational group . a randomized trial was undertaken to compare the biofragmental anastomotic ring ( bar ) with conventional intraperitoneal colorectal anastomotic techniques . patients were randomized into one of two schemes : bar versus sutured or bar versus stapled anastomosis . there were 782 patients entered into the study and 283 patients ( 36 % ) had a sutured anastomosis , 104 patients ( 13 % ) had a stapled anastomosis , and 395 ( 51 % ) had the bar . comparison of the bar with combined suture and stapled controls revealed no significant differences in wound complication , abscess rate , bleeding , anastomotic leaks , ileus , obstruction , or deaths . there were no differences in return of bowel function , return to normal diet , or hospital stay . intraoperative difficulties occurred in 46 bar patients ( 17 % ) , and this was significantly higher ( p less than 0.001 ) than for sutured ( 3 % ) but not for stapled anastomoses ( 11 % ) . the occurrence of these problems did not adversely effect the outcome . the data suggest that the bar is a safe , satisfactory alternative to sutured or stapled colorectal anastomoses . 
prospective study of a prosthetic h-graft portacaval shunt . this study was undertaken to prospectively evaluate the 8-mm gore-tex interposition h-graft portacaval shunt . thirty-six high-risk patients at the university of south florida-affiliated hospitals received small-diameter shunts because of bleeding esophagogastric varices over a recent 2-year period . portal vein and portal vein-inferior vena cava gradients were significantly reduced after shunting . these pressure changes were manifested clinically by the absence of variceal rebleeding and improvement of ascites ; in addition , the incidence of encephalopathy was low . the 8-mm graft maintained hepatopedal flow in 67 % of the patients , but reversal of flow did not result in complications commonly associated with poor portal perfusion . graft thrombosis occurred in four ( 11 % ) patients . all grafts were successfully revised , three by operative revision and one by an interventional radiologist . operative mortality was low ( 11 % ) , and morbidity was unusual . the small-diameter h-graft portacaval shunt is a safe and effective method of treatment for bleeding esophagogastric varices . 
immunophenotyping in the management of gastric lymphoma . primary gastric lymphoma is a rare tumor in which surgical resection plays a major role in improving the response rate and reducing the incidence of bleeding and perforation after chemotherapy . in 17 consecutive patients , the diagnosis of gastric lymphoma was made by immunophenotyping snap-frozen endoscopic biopsy specimens . all neoplasms were b-cell lymphomas . pan b surface marker antigens were present in all patients . levels of ki-67 , a nuclear marker of tumor proliferation , were greater than 45 % in two of the four patients who died after progression of their lymphoma . all patients alive had ki-67 levels of less than 30 % . a lower proliferation index , as measured by ki-67 , appears to be associated with better prognosis . ten of 11 patients treated by resection prior to chemotherapy had no complications . immunophenotyping is the key in the differential diagnosis when considering malignant lymphoma with gastric carcinoma and benign conditions such as pseudolymphoma . 
a prospective longitudinal study of observation versus surgical intervention in the management of necrotizing pancreatitis . pancreatic necrosis is now recognized as a principal determinant of survival in acute pancreatitis . however , it is currently unknown how frequently pancreatic necrosis develops in acute pancreatitis , how often pancreatic necrosis becomes secondarily infected , and whether sterile pancreatic necrosis represents an indication for surgery or can be treated by conservative means . in 194 patients with unequivocal acute pancreatitis , pancreatic necrosis developed in 38 ( 20 % ) , as documented by dynamic pancreatography , and was confirmed by histologic diagnosis at surgery in 28 . all patients were prospectively treated by medical means . patients with pancreatic necrosis who remained persistently febrile underwent fine needle aspiration for bacterial culture . infected pancreatic necrosis was demonstrated in 27 of the 38 patients ( 71 % ) with pancreatic necrosis and was treated by open drainage , yielding a mortality rate of 15 % . all 11 patients with demonstrated sterile pancreatic necrosis , including 6 with pulmonary and renal insufficiency , were successfully treated without surgery . pancreatic necrosis occurs in approximately 20 % of patients with acute pancreatitis and is necessary for the development of secondary pancreatic infection . however , pancreatic necrosis by itself , even when accompanied by organ failure , is not an absolute indication for surgery . a trial of medical treatment for all patients with sterile pancreatic necrosis is in order . 
laparoscopic guided cholecystectomy . cholecystectomy remains the most effective form of therapy for patients with symptomatic cholelithiasis . an alternative method of gallbladder removal , laparoscopic guided cholecystectomy , was attempted in 100 patients . five patients required conversion of the laparoscopic procedure to an open laparotomy for the following reasons : discovery of a pancreatic malignancy in one patient , extensive adhesions in one , presence of an aberrant accessory right hepatic duct in one , common hepatic duct injury in one , and avulsion of the cystic duct in one . both ductal injuries occurred during the early phase of the clinical program . in those patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy , 93 were discharged within 24 hours of surgery and 94 returned to normal activity within 1 week . laparoscopic guided cholecystectomy appears to offer a number of advantages in patient care as well as a significant reduction in health care expenses for gallbladder disease . appropriate training in laparoscopic surgery is necessary in order to avoid operative complications . 
differential diagnosis of sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the common hepatic duct ( klatskin tumors ) . although it is recognized that some other lesion may be the cause , a presumptive diagnosis of klatskin tumor is usually made when a focal stenotic lesion of the common hepatic duct is seen on a cholangiogram of a jaundiced patient . biopsy is so often nondiagnostic that decisions about therapy are usually made on the basis of the imaging tests and lack of evidence for some other disease . because the accuracy and consequences of this strategy have never been tested , we contrasted the preoperative diagnosis of klatskin tumor with the final diagnosis in 98 consecutive patients treated from 1985 to 1990 . preoperative investigations included ultrasound and computed tomographic scans , percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography , endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography , and angiography . sclerosing cholangiocarcinomas of the bile duct were correctly diagnosed in 68 cases . the final diagnosis was other than a sclerosing adenocarcinoma in 30 ( 31 % ) cases . there were 5 papillary bile duct carcinomas , 12 gallbladder carcinomas invading the bile duct , 5 metastatic tumors to the bile duct , 2 cases of mirizzi syndrome , 3 granulomas , and 3 cases of idiopathic benign focal stenosis . patients with papillary adenocarcinomas had an extensive filling defect of the duct , which was often thought to be unresectable . however , four of these five lesions could be completely excised , and the tumor was confined to the duct wall in all four . the outcome of surgical treatment of the other eight patients with benign lesions was good in most cases . these findings demonstrate the pitfalls of assuming that a focal stenosis of the hepatic duct represents a sclerosing adenocarcinoma . the diagnosis is much less specific than is generally thought , so there is considerable opportunity for mismanaging such patients . 
proximal gastric vagotomy in the emergency treatment of bleeding duodenal ulcer . proximal gastric vagotomy for bleeding duodenal ulcer was performed in 52 low-risk patients between 1973 and 1986 . duodenotomy without violation of the pylorus was done in all patients to allow inspection and control of the bleeding site . the median duration of operation was 3 hours and 20 minutes , although 25 % of the procedures required 4 or more hours . there was no postoperative mortality and no early reoperations . among the six patients with postoperative complications , one rebled from the ulcer and two developed prolonged gastric atony . at the time of follow-up ( median , 2.9 years ) , 48 of the patients were alive and 4 had died of non-ulcer causes . no patient had significant postvagotomy sequelae . ulcer recurrence was documented in six patients , and three required reoperation . proximal gastric vagotomy is a safe , effective therapy for bleeding duodenal ulcer . because of the length of the operation , it should be restricted to low-risk patients who are hemodynamically stable at the time of operation . 
a 27-year experience with splenectomy for gaucher 's disease . gaucher 's disease is an inherited metabolic disorder caused by the defective activity of acid beta-glucosidase and the resultant accumulation of glucosyl ceramide-laden macrophages in the liver , bone , and spleen . splenectomy is the preferred treatment for patients with gaucher 's disease who develop massive splenomegaly with accompanying hypersplenism and/or mechanical pressure symptoms . the charts of 48 patients with gaucher 's disease undergoing splenectomy at our institution between january 1963 and december 1989 were analyzed to determine the short - and long-term results of this procedure . thirty-five ( 73 % ) patients had total splenectomy , whereas 13 ( 27 % ) patients had partial splenectomy . there was one postoperative death ( after total splenectomy ) , and 13 patients ( 27 % ) had postoperative complications . eleven patients ( 23 % ) presented with accelerated bone disease after total splenectomy ( mean follow-up : 96 months ) . no patients having partial splenectomy ( mean follow-up : 25 months ) developed progressive bone disease . eight patients have died since surgery . all four deaths due to malignant disease occurred in patients after total splenectomy . the results of this largest-ever reported series of splenectomy for gaucher 's disease confirm that while either total or partial splenectomy can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality , total splenectomy is accompanied by more aggressive bone disease and a predisposition to malignancy . prospective , randomized trials are needed to substantiate whether partial splenectomy is indeed the treatment of choice for splenomegaly associated with gaucher 's disease . 
vascular complications after orthotopic liver transplantation . over a 57-month period , we performed 430 orthotopic liver transplants in 372 patients . a total of 38 vascular complications were identified including hepatic artery thrombosis ( n = 24 ) , portal vein thrombosis ( n = 6 ) , combined hepatic artery thrombosis/portal vein thrombosis ( n = 3 ) , and hepatic artery rupture ( n = 5 ) . a number of potential risk factors for the development of vascular thrombosis were evaluated with only children , weight less than 10 kg , and cold ischemia time found to be significant . the clinical presentation included fulminant hepatic failure , allograft dysfunction , biliary sepsis , and screening ultrasound . duplex ultrasonography was diagnostic in nearly all cases . therapeutic modalities included revascularization , revascularization followed by retransplantation , retransplantation alone , and observation . five cases of hepatic artery rupture occurred in four patients . infectious arteritis was present in four patients . the 6-month actuarial survival in patients with vascular complications was 70 % . early diagnosis is critical for graft salvage , with surgical intervention the mainstay of therapy . 
roseola infantum and other syndromes associated with acute hhv6 infection . eight cases of acute human herpesvirus type 6 ( hhv6 ) infection in infants were diagnosed serologically by the demonstration of igm anti-hhv6 ( 8/8 ) and a significant change in total anti-hhv6 antibody titre ( 6/8 ) . four infants were sufficiently ill to require admission to hospital and further investigations : one with encephalitis and three with gross hepatosplenomegaly , two of whom had evidence of simultaneous infection with another herpes-virus . the remaining four infants had an illness compatible with roseola infantum , although this diagnosis had not been made clinically . sera from two of those infants with rash had been sent for analysis to exclude rubella because the infants ' mothers were pregnant . the other two had received antibiotics when febrile , and the subsequent appearance of the roseola rash had raised the possibility of antibiotic allergy . the data suggest that there are clinical syndromes in addition to roseola infantum associated with the presence of igm anti-hhv6 , in which serological screening for evidence of acute hhv6 infection may be useful . 
growth velocity before sudden infant death . weight velocities of 136 infants who died from sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) were compared with those of 136 controls matched for sex , birth weight , and type of feeding . it was found that the sids infants gained weight more slowly overall and that the differences were significantly different for infants who were not breast fed in the last two weeks in which it was possible to estimate their growth velocity . breast fed infants had more periods of growth below the 25th centile than expected . these differences are unlikely to be useful in the prediction of which babies are likely to die from sids as there are frequent episodes of poor growth in infants who do not die . 
increasing asthma prevalence in a rural new zealand adolescent population : 1975-89 . a survey of asthma symptoms and spirometry in 435 adolescent schoolchildren was undertaken in 1989 in a rural , largely maori population . the survey questionnaires were identical to those used in a 1975 survey at the same school . the prevalence of reported asthma or wheeze significantly increased from 26.2 % to 34.0 % . this increase occurred in groups reporting asthma , and also those reporting wheeze unassociated with colds , but without a previous diagnosis of asthma . there was a tendency for a rise in reported wheeze in europeans ( 24.3 % to 27.4 % ) and a significant rise in maoris ( 27.1 % to 36.2 % ) . the reclassification of other respiratory problems did not account for the increase . data from this study provides evidence that there has been a rise in the prevalence of asthma in this new zealand population over a time period of 14 years . 
are measurements of height made by health visitors sufficiently accurate for routine screening of growth ? to find out whether measurements of height made by health visitors are sufficiently accurate for use in routine screening of children we carried out an interobserver and intraobserver reliability study . height measurements were made on a group of 10 children aged 3 years old and 10 aged 4.5 years old by two sets of four health visitors . they used a microtoise or wall chart and the measurements were compared with those made by a trained auxologist with a harpenden stadiometer . for a single assessment of height both pieces of equipment gave reasonably accurate results . in a child aged 3 years , with height measured on the microtoise as 100 cm , the true height could be expected -- with 95 % probability -- to lie between 99.2 cm-101 .8 cm . at the age of 4.5 years , if the measurement was 110 cm , the child 's true height could be expected to lie between 108.9 cm and 111.9 cm . the narrowest confidence interval for the growth rate from 3 to 4.5 years was achieved with the microtoise , taking the mean of three measurements . we conclude that measurements made by health visitors are sufficiently accurate for routine screening of height , and the use of such measurements for the calculation of height velocity could be improved by more structured training . 
psychological characteristics of children with shwachman syndrome . twelve children and young adults with shwachman syndrome were compared with their unaffected siblings and with controls suffering from cystic fibrosis in terms of intellectual ability , motor skills , and behaviour . there were highly significant differences in intelligence quotient between those with shwachman syndrome and the other two groups . four of the index subjects but none of the control subjects were below the normal range . the differences between groups on other tests of cognitive and motor skills were not significant , though those with shwachman syndrome tended to have the lowest scores . there was no evidence that those with shwachman syndrome had more behavioural difficulties than the control subjects . we suggest that the intellectual difficulties of patients with shwachman syndrome may be of neurological rather than social origin and that they may originate before birth . 
late deaths after treatment for childhood cancer . an investigation of 749 deaths occurring among 4082 patients surviving at least five years after the diagnosis of childhood cancer in britain before 1971 has been undertaken . of the 738 with sufficient information the numbers of deaths attributable to the following causes were : recurrent tumour , 550 ( 74 % ) , a second primary tumour , 61 ( 8 % ) , a medical condition related to treatment of the tumour , 49 ( 7 % ) , an traumatic death unrelated to the tumour or its treatment , 34 ( 5 % ) , finally , any other cause unrelated to the tumour or its treatment , 44 ( 6 % ) . less than 10 % of five year survivors of non-hodgkin lymphomas , neuroblastoma , retinoblastoma , wilms ' tumour , or a soft tissue sarcoma died of recurrent tumour during the next 15 years , while more than 25 % of five year survivors of hodgkin 's disease , ependymoma , medulloblastoma , and ewing 's tumour died of recurrent tumour during the corresponding period . almost 50 % of five year survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia died of recurrent disease during the corresponding 15 years , a large proportion of deaths being due to central nervous system relapse in an era before central nervous system prophylaxis was routinely given . comparison of the mortality observed with that expected from mortality rates in the general population indicated three times the expected number of deaths from non-neoplastic causes . five times the expected number of deaths from cardiovascular causes were observed , these were predominantly myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accidents . there was no evidence of an excess in the number of suicides observed , but there were three times the expected number of deaths from accidents observed after central nervous system tumours . 
nocturnal faecal soiling and anal masturbation . two cases of late onset faecal soiling as a result of anal masturbation in children who were neither mentally handicapped nor psychotic were studied . the role of soiling in aiding the young person and his family to avoid separating and maturing is highlighted . we suggest that the association of anal masturbation and resistant nocturnal soiling may be unrecognised . 
acute myeloid leukemia and background radiation in an expanded case-referent study . a case-referent study that investigated possible associations between environmental and occupational exposures and acute myeloid leukemia was performed on 86 cases and 172 referents , all of whom were living . exposure information was obtained through a questionnaire mailed to each subject . an association was found between time spent in concrete buildings at home and work and leukemia morbidity . in addition , extensive x-ray examinations that occurred more than 5 y prior to diagnosis were more common among cases than referents . 
expression of blood group antigens by normal bronchopulmonary tissues and common forms of pulmonary carcinomas . the expression of abh and lewis antigens has been studied in a series of pulmonary carcinomas , in areas of squamous metaplasia , and in normal adjacent bronchopulmonary tissues by means of a panel of lectins and monoclonal antibodies . all respiratory epithelial cells can express antigens , with the exception of glandular serous cells . the expression of ab antigens is rather homogeneous , while lewis antigens are expressed in a more irregular pattern , alternating positively stained cells with negatively stained cells in the same microscopic field . the expression of blood group antigens allows the identification of residual pneumocytes inside the tumor and the proper classification of some neoplasms . metaplastic areas show a variation in the staining profile when compared with normal tissues and pulmonary carcinomas . the most significant findings are the deletion of a antigen and the strong expression of le antigen . pulmonary carcinomas are composed by a heterogeneous population and tend to express antigens in the more differentiated cases or areas . the most important findings are the deletion of ab antigens and the strong expression of le ( y ) antigen . 
systemic idiopathic fibrosis with t-cell receptor gene rearrangement . a case of systemic idiopathic fibrosis was analyzed by southern blotting with probes to the immunoglobulin heavy chain and t-cell receptor genes . a 45-year-old man presented with bilateral neck swelling . he later developed lower back pain , and findings on a computed tomographic scan were consistent with idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis . a biopsy specimen of a neck lesion showed morphologic characteristics typical of idiopathic fibrosing cervicitis . immunophenotyping of the lesion revealed a polymorphic lymphoid population . molecular analysis with the use of probes to the immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor genes disclosed a germline dna pattern for the immunoglobulin gene and a rearranged pattern for the t-cell receptor gene . 
bone marrow necrosis in leukemic-phase follicular lymphoma . bone marrow necrosis has been regarded as a rare entity in specimens obtained from living patients and has been associated with a poor prognosis . it is most commonly found in patients with neoplastic disorders , severe infections , and sickle cell anemia . we present an unusual case of a small-cleaved type follicular lymphoma associated with bone marrow necrosis and a leukemic phase occurring in a 55-year-old woman . specimens were studied by morphologic , immunohistochemical , cytogenetic , and dna hybridization techniques . 
fatal embolization of intestinal contents through a duodenocaval fistula . embolization of intestinal contents to the lung is an exceedingly rare event , which to our knowledge , has never been reported as a cause of death . equally rare is duodenocaval fistula resulting from a penetrating duodenal peptic ulcer . we present the case of a 51-year-old man whose duodenal ulcer led to a fistulous tract with the inferior vena cava and subsequently to progressive pulmonary embolization of intestinal contents , ultimately resulting in death from respiratory failure . 
chronic postoperative endophthalmitis associated with actinomyces species . actinomyces species , gram-positive , non-spore-forming anaerobic bacilli were isolated from intraocular fluid obtained from four otherwise healthy patients with a delayed onset of postoperative endophthalmitis . one patient had a mixed anaerobic infection with recovery of both actinomyces israelii and propionibacterium acnes . in all four patients , early postoperative visual acuity was good but was eventually markedly reduced by intraocular inflammation that was first observed between 21 days and 4 months following uneventful extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation . inflammation was characterized by anterior segment and vitreous cellular debris in all cases . all eyes responded to therapy that included intraocular , topical , and systemic antibiotics as well as pars plana vitrectomy and partial iridectomy . these cases further illustrate the need for microbiologic investigation , including anaerobic cultures , in all cases of chronic postoperative inflammation following extracapsular cataract extraction , regardless of the time of onset . 
excess purine degradation caused by an imbalance in the supply of adenosine triphosphate in patients with congestive heart failure . to evaluate purine degradation in patients with congestive heart failure concentrations of serum hypoxanthine , lactate , and noradrenaline were measured before and after submaximal treadmill exercise in 12 patients with chronic congestive heart failure and nine healthy volunteers . in four patients the concentration of hypoxanthine was significantly higher than in the controls or in the remaining eight patients with congestive heart failure . venous lactate and noradrenaline in the four patients with high concentrations of hypoxanthine were also significantly higher than those in the eight patients with normal concentrations of hypoxanthine . patients who responded normally were also more likely to have been treated with vasodilators and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors . exercise induced arrhythmias were more common in the patients with high concentrations of hypoxanthine . these results suggest that the excess purine degradation in patients with congestive heart failure might be the result of a " relative " disturbance in the supply of adenosine triphosphate caused by the shift of cellular metabolism from aerobic glycolysis to anaerobic glycolysis during submaximal exercise and that hypoxanthine ( a substrate for xanthine oxidase and a source of free radicals ) was increased after submaximal exercise in some patients with congestive heart failure . 
patients ' observations of bioprosthetic valve failure : " my heart is honking , doctor " . audible cardiac murmurs are uncommon and may indicate severe native valve dysfunction . in six patients with bioprosthetic mitral valves audible honking systolic murmurs suddenly developed . doppler echocardiography showed characteristic striated regurgitant signals . at operation each prosthesis had torn cusps . new audible murmurs and striated doppler signals originating from mitral bioprosthetic valves are indicators of cusp tears . recognition of this is important because early detection of prosthetic valve dysfunction may improve subsequent surgical outcome . 
acute pulmonary oedema on the ruwenzori mountain range . a 40 year old man had an episode of severe pulmonary oedema at 4000-5000 m during the ascent of the margherita peak ( 5109 m ) of mount stanley on the ruwenzori . he had taken acetazolamide and high dose dexamethasone to treat symptoms of acute mountain sickness . six years before he had been studied by right heart catheterisation as a healthy volunteer during hypoxic breathing at sea level . his pulmonary vascular reactivity had been within the normal range for 32 healthy subjects . this man had high altitude pulmonary oedema despite currently recommended treatments for acute mountain sickness and normal pulmonary vascular reactivity to hypoxia at sea level . 
rapid histological changes in endomyocardial biopsy specimens after myocarditis . the course and response to treatment in acute lymphocytic myocarditis are conventionally monitored by endomyocardial biopsy performed every 3-12 weeks . a patient with a short history ( five days ) of acute myopericarditis of unknown aetiology presented in cardiogenic shock with evidence of severe systolic dysfunction on the echocardiogram . the initial biopsy specimen showed histologically unequivocal myocarditis . repeat endomyocardial biopsy after four days of treatment with steroids and azathioprine showed substantial histological improvement , a reduction in cellular infiltrate and myocardial necrosis , and interstitial fibrosis . serial biopsies at 2 weeks and then 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , 8 , and 14 months after the initial biopsy showed progressive clearing of cellular infiltrate , increasing interstitial fibrosis , and compensatory myocyte hypertrophy by 4 months . at 14 months scattered lymphocytes persisted but myocyte abnormalities had resolved completely . the patient remained symptom free and systolic function was normal during this recovery period . early endomyocardial biopsy ( within one week of diagnosis ) may yield useful histological information on the response to treatment in patients with myocarditis . it may not be necessary to wait the customary 3-4 weeks to repeat the biopsy . this case shows the chronology of histological changes and emphasises that a return to normal myocardial function may precede resolution of the histological abnormalities , which may persist in part or may resolve totally after the acute episode . 
diagnostic utility of flumazenil in coma with suspected poisoning : a double blind , randomised controlled study objective -- to assess the diagnostic value and safety of the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil in patients with coma of unclear origin with suspected poisoning . design -- double blind , placebo controlled , randomised study . setting -- intensive care unit at a major teaching hospital . patients -- 105 unconscious adults admitted consecutively with suspected drug overdosage during 18 months from a total of 362 cases of poisoning . exclusion criteria were pregnancy , epilepsy , obvious poisoning with drugs identified unequivocally from information from relatives or others as other than benzodiazepines , and coma score greater than 10 on a scale graded from 4 to 20 . patients were allocated randomly to receive flumazenil ( 21 men and 32 women ) or placebo ( 25 men and 27 women ) . interventions -- intravenous injection of flumazenil ( 10 ml , 0.1 mg/ml ) or placebo ( 10 ml vehicle alone ) given double blind over three minutes . main outcome measures -- serum and urine concentrations of benzodiazepines , antidepressants , and several other agents ; blood gas tensions ; standardised evaluation on admission and five minutes after the injection by means of coma scale score and urgent diagnostic or therapeutic interventions indicated according to the history and clinical examination ; standardised interview after the injection to try to ascertain further information ; and adverse reactions . results -- benzodiazepines were found in the serum in 36 of the 53 patients in the flumazenil group and in 37 of the 52 who received placebo . the average coma scale score increased significantly after injection in the flumazenil group ( 6.4 v 12.1 , p less than 0.001 ) but not in the placebo group . in the flumazenil group several interventions were rendered unnecessary by the injection : gastric lavage and urinary catheterisation ( 19 patients each ) , intubation ( 21 ) , artificial ventilation and computed tomography of the brain ( three patients each ) , blood culture and lumbar puncture ( one patient each ) , and electroencephalography ( two ) . in the placebo group the indications for these procedures did not change in any patient after injection . the 95 % confidence interval for the difference in reduction of the frequency of indications for gastric lavage after injection between the two groups was 21 % to 51 % , that for intubation 25 % to 55 % , and that for urinary catheterisation 21 % to 51 % . in the flumazenil group 21 patients gave valuable information on their drug ingestion within 10 minutes after injection compared with only one in the placebo group ( p less than 0.001 ) . nine adverse reactions were recorded in the flumazenil group , eight of which were graded as mild and one severe . the safety of the antagonist was acceptable , even though 60 % of the patients in the flumazenil group had multiple drug poisoning including benzodiazepine . no epileptic seizures or arrhythmias were recorded . conclusion -- flumazenil is a valuable and safe differential diagnostic tool in unclear cases of multiple drug poisoning . 
health care screening for people with mental handicap living in the community objective -- to determine what contact people with mental handicap had had with their general practitioner in the previous year ; what prescribed drugs they were taking and whether these had been reviewed ; when hearing and vision had last been screened ; and what medical problems were found on examination . design -- case series . setting-day centre for adults with mental handicap . subjects -- a balanced sample of 75 of the 150 people attending the day centre . 10 were excluded because consent was not given . results -- the subjects did not consult their general practitioners more frequently than the general population but were more likely to be taking prescribed drugs , and 57 % of these prescriptions had not been reviewed by a doctor . thirty three people failed vision screening , including 13 who wore glasses . twenty seven of the 62 who were testable had a hearing impairment . conclusions -- as only eight out of 65 people examined in the study did not have an appreciable problem brought to light , screening seems to be worth while . whether such screening needs to be done by a medically qualified person needs further research . 
diagnosis , classification , and course of myelodysplastic syndromes . the myelodysplastic syndromes are bone marrow stem cell disorders that result in disorderly and ineffective hematopoiesis . they are prognostically heterogenous . approximately one third of cases evolve to acute myeloid leukemia . many additional cases terminate in severe bone marrow failure . the french-american-british working group classification of the myelodysplastic syndromes defines morphologic and prognostic groups . cytogenetic and in vitro cell culture characteristics are important prognostic indicators . 
leukemias of indeterminant lineage . two biologically and clinically important forms of acute leukemia have been described . evidence suggests that both undifferentiated acute leukemia and many types of hybrid leukemia arise from relatively fewer differentiated cells than do the more straightforward acute leukemias . clinical correlations suggest that patients with these leukemias may have a poorer prognosis , although some findings may be associated with an improved prognosis . more data in which multiple techniques are applied to the same leukemic cells are clearly needed . patients with certain types of hybrid leukemias may be suitable candidates for more aggressive forms of chemotherapy or , possibly , combinations of therapy directed at cells of both lineages . 
chromosomal abnormalities in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia . clonal chromosome abnormalities are found in more than half the patients with hematologic malignancies . karyotype is an independent prognostic factor in these patients . cytogenetic findings correlate significantly with morphologic , immunologic , and clinical features as well as response to treatment , remission duration , and survival . the number of different cytogenetic abnormalities is enormous ; however , many cytogenetic findings frequently occur in a given disease ( e.g. , abnormalities of 5 or 7 in 75 % to 90 % of patients with therapy-related aml ) . some abnormalities are found only in myeloid malignancies , for example , the t ( 8 ; 21 ) ( q22 ; q22 ) and rearrangements of chromosome 16q22 , both of which have a good prognosis . other abnormalities usually are found in both myeloid and lymphoid malignancies , for example , the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) and t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) , both of which have a poor prognosis . the human gene mapping conferences have compiled much cytogenetic data and produced several interesting correlations in myeloid malignancies : rearrangements of 3q21-26 with myeloid proliferations associated with environmental exposure ( similar to abnormalities of 5q , 7q , 12p , and 17q ) , aberrations of 12p , 11q13 and 11q23 with both myeloid and lymphoid disorders , and the lack of myeloid involvement and abnormalities of chromosomes 14 and 18 . in conclusion , cytogenetic analysis of neoplastic cells at diagnosis for patients with mds , aml , and saml is required for appropriate diagnosis and treatment . the use of chromosome abnormalities to separate patients into high - and low-risk groups eventually may allow us to be more effective in selecting curative therapy . 
the molecular biology of acute myeloid leukemia . proto-oncogene expression and function in normal and neoplastic myeloid cells . proto-oncogenes and suppressor genes fall into four functional groups : growth factors , growth factor and hormone receptors , signal transducers , and transcriptional regulatory factors . many of these genes are selectively expressed in myeloid cells and may play a role in normal development of the myeloid lineages . furthermore , chromosomal rearrangements , deletions , and mutations may disrupt the normal expression or function of these genes , promoting mpd and leukemogenesis . many of the genes altered by karyotypic abnormalities in myeloid disorders are only beginning to be identified . future studies undoubtedly will determine the molecular mechanisms whereby these genes , residing at karyotypic breakpoints in myeloid disorders , promote neoplastic transformation of myeloid cells . 
molecular methods to detect the philadelphia chromosome . the ph1 chromosome has two molecular subtypes : a bcr-positive seen in cml and some cases of all , and the bcr-negative subtype mainly seen in all . in cml , because of the restriction of chromosome 22 breakpoints to the bcr , southern analysis to detect bcr rearrangements also can be used to detect the ph1 chromosome . in contrast , the translocation breakpoints on the ph1 chromosome are scattered in all , so that other methods such as pfge and pcr are necessary to detect the ph1 chromosome . in both cml and all , use of these methods to detect molecular abnormalities may be superior to cytogenetics in detecting chromosomal abnormalities . southern analysis also can be used in cml to map breakpoint locations within the bcr . this may offer prognostic information as to the length of chronic phase , but there is conflicting information as to the validity of this approach . the modified pcr ( using cdna from mrna ) can be used to detect the ph1 chromosome and to define which of the molecular subtypes are present . the exquisite sensitivity of this method , which is capable of detecting as little as a single abnormal molecule of rna or dna , makes it suited for the detection of minimal residual disease in both cml and all . this is particularly useful after intensive therapies , such as bone marrow transplantation . whether these low levels of fusion gene expression are of prognostic significance is still unclear . 
esophageal motility , heartburn , and gastroesophageal reflux : variations in clinical presentation of esophageal dysphagia . dysphagia is a potentially important symptom , often leading to the finding of an anatomical or motility disorder of the esophagus . dysphagia and heartburn represent two of the most common symptoms associated with esophageal motility disorders . to explore the relationship of symptomatic esophageal dysphagia and heartburn and their association with primary esophageal motor disorders , we have performed a retrospective assessment of 1035 patient evaluations performed at our gastrointestinal laboratory . a clear statistical association of symptomatic dysphagia and heartburn was established ; however , no pattern diagnostic of a specific motility disorder was discernible . a sizable fraction of our patient population with dysphagia demonstrated normal esophageal motility . a significant portion of dyspeptic patients exhibited both normal motility and acid exposure . the differences observed between the incidence of subjective symptoms and objective dysfunction may be explained in part by an altered or increased esophageal sensitivity of these patients . 
prevalence of helicobacter pylori in specific forms of gastritis . further evidence supporting a pathogenic role for h. pylori in chronic nonspecific gastritis . helicobacter pylori colonization of the gastric mucosa is strongly associated with chronic nonspecific gastritis ; moreover , there is evidence to suggest that h. pylori may cause this form of gastritis . however , there is little or no information on the prevalence of h. pylori in specific forms of gastritis . our hypothesis was that if h. pylori was pathogenic in chronic nonspecific gastritis , organisms would be found frequently in this type of gastritis but infrequently in specific forms of gastritis . prevalence rates of h. pylori were determined independently in patients with eosinophilic and crohn 's gastritis , menetrier 's disease , and chronic nonspecific gastritis . the prevalence of h. pylori in patients with chronic nonspecific gastritis was 71 % , whereas the organism was not identified in patients with any form of specific gastritis . this finding further supports the accumulating evidence that h. pylori is a primary pathogenic factor in chronic nonspecific gastritis . 
persistence of chronic constipation in children after biofeedback treatment . we investigated the efficacy of biofeedback treatment and evaluated anorectal factors that might be responsible for persistence of chronic constipation with or without encopresis in a group of 38 children with abnormal contraction of the pelvic floor during straining and persistence of chronic constipation with encopresis after conventional treatment . nine children were unsuccessful in learning to relax the pelvic floor during straining with biofeedback treatment , and one patient had contraction of the pelvic floor on follow-up despite successful biofeedback treatment ; none recovered . twenty-eight children were able to relax the pelvic floor on follow-up ; 14 recovered and 14 did not recover from chronic constipation . nonrecovered patients who learned to relax the pelvic floor had significantly decreased rectal and anal responsiveness to rectal distension as compared to recovered patients during the initial and follow-up anorectal manometric study . psychological factors such as social competence and behavior problems did not appear to be responsible for recovery or nonrecovery from chronic constipation and encopresis . 
clinical and physiological study of anal sphincter and ileal j pouch before preileostomy closure and 6 and 12 months after closure of loop ileostomy . spontaneous evolution of pouch and anal function , and absorption features has been assessed in 15 patients who underwent proctocolectomy with j ileal pouch anastomosis without conservation of a rectal muscular cuff . all the patients were studied before preileostomy closure and six and 12 months after the closure of the protection loop ileostomy . stool frequency was identical at six and 12 months ( mean + / - sem : 5.0 + / - 0.4 and 5.3 + / - 0.5 / day , respectively ) . sixty-six percent of patients at six months and 40 % of patients at 12 months need to defecate at least one time during night . stool weight as well as steatorrhea decreased significantly six months after the closure of loop ileostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean resting anal pressure remained unchanged six and 12 months after closure of the loop ileostomy ( 41 + / - 6 and 45 + / - 5 cm h2o , respectively ) . maximum squeeze anal pressures increased significantly at six ( p less than 0.05 ) and 12 months ( p less than 0.05 ) . the rectoanal inhibitory reflex was always absent at the same period . the maximum pouch capacity increased significantly during the first six months ( p less than 0.01 ) from 142 + / - 17 to 279 + / - 27 ml . the maximum infused volume during a saline continence test was not significantly different at six and 12 months ; the percentage of evacuation of the reservoir and the volume at which the first ileal contraction appeared in the reservoir increased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) at six and 12 months . in conclusion , in patients with ileoanal anastomosis and pouch reservoir , the closure of the loop ileostomy is associated with spontaneous modifications of the anal and pouch parameters . 
achalasia in the elderly . effects of aging on clinical presentation and outcome . clinical and manometric data from 13 elderly subjects with idiopathic achalasia ( mean age 79 + / - 2 years ) were compared with findings from younger subjects with the same disease ( n = 79 ) to see if aging altered the presentation and outcome of this motor disorder . fewer elderly subjects complained of chest pain ( 27 % vs 53 % ) , and the pain was significantly less severe ( p less than 0.01 ) . other presenting features ( including sex , duration of symptoms , and presence and severity of dysphagia ) did not differ between the groups . across all patients , age weakly and inversely correlated with residual postdeglutitive lower esophageal sphincter ; ( les ) pressure ( r = -0.34 ) , and residual pressure was significantly lower in the older subjects ( 8.0 + / - 1.3 mm hg vs. 11.9 + / - 0.8 mm hg ; p = 0.02 ) . no differences in basal les pressure or esophageal-body contraction amplitudes were present between the groups . initial success with pneumatic dilation was similar in the two subject groups , but the number of older subjects available for analysis was too small to draw strong conclusions . these results indicate that aging decreases the elevation of les residual pressure that occurs with achalasia . as elderly achalasia patients also present with less chest pain , the findings may be interrelated . 
prospective study on prevalence of esophageal chest pain in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia . the prevalence of esophageal chest pain was studied prospectively in patients referred on an elective basis to a cardiac unit for suspected myocardial ischemia . a group of 248 consecutive patients without previously documented heart disease was admitted for elective diagnostic coronary angiography . the clinical history classified 185 patients as having anginal pain and the coronary angiogram was normal in 48 of them . in 37 of these 48 patients full esophageal testing was performed including 24-hr intraesophageal ph and pressure recordings with indication of chest pain episodes as well as a number of esophageal provocation tests , ie , acid perfusion , edrophonium stimulation , balloon distension , and ergonovine stimulation , all performed under continuous esophageal manometric and electrocardiographic monitoring . in 19 of these 37 patients , the familiar chest pain could be reproduced by esophageal provocative testing without ischemic st-t segment alterations ; six of these 19 patients had also a positive 24-hr ph and pressure recording . these data strongly suggest an esophageal origin of chest pain in half the patients with typical angina and a normal coronary angiogram . 
islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting as bleeding from isolated gastric varices . report of a case and review of the literature . gastrointestinal hemorrhage from left-sided portal hypertension and gastric varices is an unusual presentation for islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas . islet cell tumors of the pancreas themselves are rare . they present in a variety of ways . those that elaborate functional hormones cause specific neuroendocrine syndromes . nonfunctional tumors characteristically present later with symptoms of metastatic disease or as a result of local enlargement . we present a case of islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas presenting with recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding from gastric varices and review the literature for this rare presentation . we emphasize the importance of a careful initial diagnostic work-up that may enable curative surgery . 
pancreatic ascites presenting in infancy , with review of the literature . we report a 4-month-old boy with massive ascites in whom a diagnosis of pancreatitis was made on a raised ascitic amylase level after two inconclusive laparotomies . he developed a pseudocyst which was managed with repeated percutaneous needle aspirations , nutrition being maintained intravenously . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) demonstrated a congenital intra-pancreatic cyst . he thrived after operation drainage for recurrent pseudocyst , but repeat ercp shows that the cyst in the head of the pancreas remains . pancreatic ascites is rare in children and diagnosis is frequently delayed . a third of reported cases in childhood present in the first year of life . a search for the underlying cause should include an ercp to demonstrate abnormalities of the pancreaticobiliary ducts . 
selective dopamine da1 stimulation with fenoldopam in cirrhotic patients with ascites : a systemic , splanchnic and renal hemodynamic study . we studied the effects of fenoldopam , a selective dopamine da1 agonist on systemic and splanchnic hemodynamics , renal blood flow and sodium excretion in 12 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and ascites . hepatic , azygos and renal veins were catheterized before and after intravenous administration of fenoldopam , 0.05 micrograms/kg/min for 1 hr and increased to 0.1 micrograms/kg/min for another hour . mean arterial pressure progressively decreased ( from 83 + / - 7 to a minimum of 77 + / - 8 mm hg 100 min after starting the infusion ) but returned to baseline level at 120 min . plasma norepinephrine and renin activity increased ( respectively from 567 + / - 297 to 919 + / - 375 pg/ml , p less than 0.05 , and from 17 + / - 14 to 23 + / - 15 ng/ml/hr , p less than 0.05 ) . renal blood flow , urine output or sodium excretion did not change . sodium output decreased at 1 hr from 6.9 mumol/min to 4.0 mumol/min , p less than 0.05 . both hepatic venous pressure gradient and azygos blood flow significantly increased by 21 % . we conclude that the acute administration of fenoldopam did not improve renal hemodynamics or function in patients with cirrhosis and ascites . in addition , dopamine da1 agonism caused further increases in norepinephrine concentration and plasma renin activity . portal pressure also increased , probably because of an increase in mesenteric blood flow . these results question the renal benefit and raise concern about the use of dopamine agonists in patients with cirrhosis and ascites . 
hepatic histological findings after transplantation for chronic hepatitis b virus infection , including a unique pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis . long-term follow-up of 27 patients with hepatitis b virus-related chronic liver disease treated by transplantation showed that 23 had hepatitis b virus recurrence . in 13 patients late changes in the grafts were similar to those described in other series : minor abnormalities in five cases , chronic active hepatitis in five cases and non-hepatitis b virus-related graft dysfunction in three cases . three patients had incomplete histological follow-up . analysis of the histological changes and viral antigen expression in six cases revealed a distinct and novel pattern termed fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis . development of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis was associated with rapidly progressive graft dysfunction . it is postulated that this pattern of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis develops because of a high cytoplasmic expression of viral antigens , including hbsag . the remaining case had some features of fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis . the main histological features of this unique syndrome include thin , perisinusoidal bands of fibrosis extending from portal tracts to surround plates of ductular-type epithelium ; prominent cholestasis ; ground-glass transformation ; and ballooning of hepatocytes with cell loss and mild mixed inflammatory reaction . 
point mutation , allelic loss and increased methylation of c-ha-ras gene in human hepatocellular carcinoma . somatic alterations of the c-ha-ras gene were examined in 21 japanese patients with hepatocellular carcinoma . restriction endonuclease analysis by double digestion with mspi and hpaii revealed that dnas from two of 21 hepatocellular carcinoma tissues were affected by nucleotide substitution at the twelfth amino acid coding sequence of the c-ha-ras gene . dnas from cirrhotic noncancerous liver tissue , but not leukocytes , of one of these patients possessed the mutation , whereas dnas from noncirrhotic liver tissue and leukocytes of the other patient did not . in one of the nine patients harboring heterozygosity for c-ha-ras-related bamhi-fragments , the loss of one allele was demonstrated as a somatic change not only in dna from the tumor tissue but also in dna from the cirrhotic nontumorous tissue . in two of the 19 patients comparatively examined for digestion patterns of c-ha-ras locus with hpaii and mspi , extensive methylation was observed as a somatic modification in both dnas from the tumor and the cirrhotic nontumorous tissues . these results thus indicate that the genetic lesions affecting the c-ha-ras gene do occur in human hepatocellular carcinoma and probably serve as one of the multiple steps in the process of hepatic carcinogenesis . 
kupffer cell activation and endothelial cell damage after storage of rat livers : effects of reperfusion . reperfusion injury characterized by loss of endothelial cell viability occurs after cold ischemic storage of livers for transplantation surgery . here , ultrastructural changes in stored rat livers were examined by scanning and transmission electron microscopy . with increasing times of storage in euro-collins solution ( 4 to 24 hr ) followed by 15 min of reperfusion at 37 degrees c , a sequence of structural alterations was observed involving endothelial and kupffer cells . widening of endothelial fenestrations occurred after 4 hr and progressed over 8 to 24 hr to retraction of cellular processes , ball-like rounding , sinusoidal denudation and ultrastructural derangements consistent with loss of cell viability . kupffer cells exhibited progressive rounding , ruffling of the cell surface , polarization , appearance of wormlike densities , vacuolization and degranulation over a similar time course . by contrast , the structures of parenchymal and fat-storing cells were relatively undisturbed by cold storage and reperfusion . alterations to endothelial and kupffer cells were also studied as a function of time of reperfusion . after 24 hr of storage , endothelial cells showed retraction of cytoplasm before reperfusion that progressed quickly to loss of viability and denudation during reperfusion . kupffer cell activation ( ruffling , degranulation ) during reperfusion was slower and occurred after deterioration of endothelial cells . livers stored in euro-collins solution were also compared with livers stored in university of wisconsin cold storage solution , an improved preservation medium for transplantation . university of wisconsin solution provided better preservation of endothelial structure and markedly reduced parenchymal cell blebbing and swelling before reperfusion . university of wisconsin solution also reduced kupffer cell activation and release of lysosomal enzymes . in conclusion , endothelial cell deterioration followed by kupffer cell activation occurred after increasing times of cold ischemic storage and reperfusion of rat livers . both changes may contribute to the pathophysiology of graft failure caused by reperfusion-mediated storage injury . 
acetylsalicylic acid vs. metoprolol in migraine prophylaxis -- a double-blind cross-over study . in a double blind cross-over study , 28 patients , 5 male and 23 female , aged 31 + / - 14 years , after a run-in period of 8 weeks , were treated for 3 months with acetylsalicylic acid and for another 3 months with metoprolol , both in a prophylactic mode . attack frequency was reduced significantly with both therapeutic regimens ( asa p less than 0.001 , metoprolol p less than 0.00005 ) . reduction of attacks below 50 % was seen with metoprolol in 14 cases , and with asa in three cases . even though asa was of statistically significant efficacy in migraine prophylaxis , it clearly is not the drug of first choice in migraine prophylaxis . 
the ver as a diagnostic marker for childhood abdominal migraine . abdominal migraine is a common childhood migraine equivalent , for which diagnostic criteria have not been defined . as in other children with migraine equivalents this leads to difficulties in diagnosis and determination of prevalence . by recording the fast wave activity ( beta rhythmn ) in the visual evoked response ( ver ) to red and white flash , the pattern stimulation , 27 out of 28 children with clinically diagnosed abdominal migraine revealed significant differences compared with normal controls , outside the attack phase . comparisons with children diagnosed as migraine with or without aura revealed , from the ver findings of higher amplitude fast wave activity and the presence of paroxysmal sharp wave activity , that abdominal migraine appears to be a specific form of childhood migraine . we found that both clinically and electrophysiologically , abdominal migraine changes with age ; older children exhibiting a shorter duration of abdominal pain during attacks , and less evidence of sharp wave activity in the ver . 
cluster headache : the effect of low oxygen saturation the present study concerns the possible relationship between hypoxia and the generation of cluster headache attacks . fifteen controls and 25 cluster headache patients were studied . the patients were allocated into two groups according to cluster headache stage , i.e. cluster or remission period . during the tests , all the subjects were asked to inhale 12 % oxygen ( 88 % n2 ) for 30 min , and the decreasing oxygen saturation ( sao2 % ) was monitored . patients in the remission period showed nearly the same decrement of sao2 % as controls . at the end of the test , patients in the bout showed significantly less reduction of sao2 % than the controls . in 5 patients , the test was carried out both in and outside the cluster periods . the tendency to less decrement in oxygen saturation in the cluster phase was as marked with this comparison , but the difference between the groups was not significant , probably partly due to the low number of tests carried out . only one patient got a typical attack . it seems that hypoxia of this magnitude per se is not the cause of attacks . the different pattern with respect to sao2 % following 12 % o2 inhalation in cluster headache may be due to an abnormality in central regulation and/or chemoreceptor sensitivity . 
recurrent tension headache in adolescents treated with self-help relaxation training and a muscle relaxant drug . forty-eight adolescents suffering from recurrent tension headache participated in a controlled trial conducted in a high school setting . during the first treatment phase self-help relaxation training was compared with a waiting-list group . following this phase a pharmacological regimen consisting of a muscle relaxant ( chlormezanone ) and placebo was superimposed on relaxation therapy in a double-blind crossover design . each treatment phase encompassed a 5-week period . in addition to the evaluation of headache complaints , psychological distress among students was measured with respect to their experience of somatic complaints , depressive , anxiety and stress symptoms . although self-help relaxation training significantly decreased the severity and annoyance of adolescents ' headache besides their somatic complaints , the clinical improvement of headache was modest . the addition of chlormezanone did not help those who were nonresponders to self-help relaxation training . finally , a set of pretreatment variables consisting of baseline headache severity and annoyance , experience of anxiety and daily life stress among adolescents could predict outcome of self-help relaxation therapy . 
treatment of status migrainosus : the american experience . dependence upon a variety of drugs -- ergotamine , analgesics , benzodiazepines , corticosteroids -- is a major reason for patients to enter an intractable phase of their migrainous disorders . repeated dosing of dihydroergotamine has proven to be remarkably effective in stabilizing the mechanism of migraine , allowing these patients to make the transition to a more reasonable as well as more specific form of therapy . 
sumatriptan in acute migraine : pharmacology and review of world experience . the introduction of sumatriptan , a novel abortive antimigraine agent , has generated a significant amount of preclinical and clinical interest during the past few years . at the scientific level , sumatriptan is unique in terms of its selective pharmacological properties . the effects of sumatriptan in various experimental paradigms have led to new insights into the pathophysiology of migraine . at the clinical level , sumatriptan appears to be an effective abortive anti-migraine agent with minimal side effects . its ability to decrease , rather than exacerbate , the nausea and vomiting of migraine appears to be an important advance in the treatment of migraine . 
interpleural analgesia [ published erratum appears in heart lung 1991 jul ; 20 ( 4 ) :413 ] postoperative pain relief is necessary not only for patient comfort , but also to facilitate ventilation and ambulation . the use of opioid analgesia , either intravenously , intramuscularly , or intraspinally , may be ineffective and can cause respiratory depression . the administration of local anesthetics into the pleural space is a technique of providing analgesia of rapid onset and long duration . this analgesia is accomplished without causing the respiratory depression or sedation associated with the use of opioids . because innovative analgesic methods are often selected for critically ill patients presenting after surgery in the intensive care setting , critical care nurses may encounter patients receiving local anesthetics administered via interpleural catheter . 
development of a special care unit for chronically critically ill patients . intensive care units ( icus ) are recognized as one of the most expensive services provided by hospitals . within these icus are a growing population of patients whose stays are extensively prolonged because of complications or underlying chronic health conditions that are exacerbated by a critical illness . these patients can be described as " chronically critically ill " and are costly to hospitals both in terms of actual dollars and in terms of the burden of care to nurses and physicians . this article describes the creation of a special care unit ( scu ) designed specifically to meet the needs of chronically critically ill patients . the scu environment is composed of a physical design that accommodates limited technology and care aimed at family involvement and rehabilitation , a case management practice model , and a shared governance management model . this structure is in contrast to traditional icu environments , which include physical layouts that allow for high technology and close monitoring of patients , a primary nursing delivery system , and a bureaucratic management model . a research project to compare the effects of the scu with the effects of the traditional icus on nurse and patient outcomes is described . 
treatment strategies in shock : use of oxygen transport measurements . shock has traditionally been categorized according to its cause . shock can result from hemorrhage , primary cardiac failure , central nervous system failure , trauma , or sepsis . therapeutic principles have been developed for each etiologic type . end points for such therapy have included optimization of pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , cardiac output , blood pressure , and urine output . recent investigators agree that the common denominator in each of the shock syndromes is a reduction in the amount of oxygen consumed by the cell . the logical therapeutic approach would be to increase oxygen delivery to support the increased metabolic demand of the cells . the end point of resuscitation should be optimization of oxygen delivery and oxygen consumption . these variables are easily calculated by using data obtained from pulmonary artery catheter and laboratory measurements . the physician or nurse caring for critical ill patients should have a thorough understanding of the rationale for the use of oxygen transport calculations and the methods of manipulating oxygen delivery . a simple explanation of these principles including the importance of hemoglobin , cardiac index , and percent saturation of hemoglobin and suggested treatment strategies are presented . 
flow-volume characteristics in the pulmonary circulation . isolated ferret and canine lungs were used to validate a method for assessing determinants of vascular volume in the pulmonary circulation . with left atrial pressure ( pla ) constant at 5 mmhg , flow ( q ) was raised in steps over a physiological range . changes in vascular volume ( delta v ) with each increment in q were determined as the opposite of changes in perfusion system reservoir weight or from the increase in lung weight . at each level of q , the pulmonary arterial and left atrial cannulas were simultaneously occluded , allowing all vascular pressures to equilibrate at the same static pressure ( ps ) , which was equal to the compliance-weighted average pressure in the circulation before occlusion . hypoxia ( inspired po2 25 torr ) in ferret lungs , which causes intense constriction in arterial extra-alveolar vessels , had no effect on the slope of the ps-q relationship , interpreted to represent the resistance downstream from compliance ( control 0.025 + / - 0.006 mmhg.ml-1 . min , hypoxia 0.030 + / - 0.013 ) . the ps-axis intercept increased from 8.94 + / - 0.50 to 13.43 + / - 1.52 mmhg , indicating a modest increase in the effective back-pressure to flow downstream from compliant regions . the compliance of the circulation , obtained from the slope of the relationship between delta v and ps , was unaffected by hypoxia ( control 0.52 + / - 0.08 ml/mmhg , hypoxia 0.56 + / - 0.08 ) . in contrast , histamine in canine lungs , which causes constriction in veins , caused the slope of the ps-q relationship to increase from 0.013 + / - 0.007 to 0.032 + / - 0.006 mmhg.ml-1 . min ( p less than 0.05 ) and the compliance to decrease from 3.51 + / - 0.56 to 1.68 + / - 0.37 ml/mmhg ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
regional h2o2 concentration in rat brain after hyperoxic convulsions . o2 toxicity of the central nervous system ( cns ) may be a result of enhanced generation of reactive o2 species such as superoxide and h2o2 at high po2 . in this study , we measured h2o2 production in six regions of the rat brain before and after convulsions induced by hyperbaric hyperoxia ( hbo ) . h2o2 concentration was determined ex vivo using a method based on the h2o2-dependent decline in catalase activity in the presence of the irreversible inhibitor of compound i , 3-amino-1 ,2,4 - triazole . regional catalase activity in the brain ranged from 0.029 + / - 0.004 to 0.055 + / - 0.004 mumol o2.min-1 . micrograms dna-1 in cerebellum and medulla-pons , respectively . in the presence of aminotriazole , catalase activity declined after hbo-induced convulsions to 26-45 % of normoxic values . the rates of inactivation of catalase were used to predict average steady-state values for h2o2 concentration in different brain structures . estimated h2o2 concentrations during hbo varied from 31 to 51 pm in cerebellum and posterior subcortex and represented increases of 2.2-7 .3 times normoxic values . these findings suggest that h2o2 is an important mediator of selective neuronal vulnerability to cns o2 toxicity . 
selective pulmonary vasodilation with atp-mgcl2 during pulmonary hypertension in lambs . we investigated the effects of infusions of atp-mgcl2 on the circulation in 11 spontaneously breathing newborn lambs during pulmonary hypertension induced either by the infusion of u-46619 , a thromboxane a2 mimetic , or by hypoxia . during pulmonary hypertension induced by u-46619 , atp-mgcl2 ( 0.01-1 .0 mg.kg-1 . min-1 ) caused a significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure ( 12.4-40 .7 % , p less than 0.05 ) , while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at the highest doses ( p less than 0.05 ) . left atrial infusions of atp-mgcl2 caused systemic hypotension without decreasing pulmonary arterial pressure . during hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension , atp-mgcl2 caused a similar significant dose-dependent decrease in pulmonary arterial pressure ( 12.0-41 .1 % , p less than 0.05 ) , while systemic arterial pressure decreased only at high doses ( p less than 0.05 ) . regression analysis showed selectivity of the vasodilating effects of atp-mgcl2 for the pulmonary circulation during pulmonary hypertension induced either by u-46619 or hypoxia . atp-mgcl2 is a potent vasodilator with a rapid metabolism that allows for selective vasodilation of the vascular bed first encountered ( pulmonary or systemic ) . we conclude that infusions of atp-mgcl2 may be clinically useful in the treatment of children with pulmonary hypertension . 
neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis in two neutropenic patients . neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis is an uncommon , self-limited dermatosis with a variable clinical presentation . it seems to be due to chemotherapeutic drugs in most cases . necrosis of the eccrine gland associated with a neutrophilic infiltrate is the histologic hallmark of this disease . we report two additional cases in neutropenic patients with acute myelogenous leukemia in which there was a striking lack of neutrophil infiltration . a new term , drug-associated eccrine hidradenitis , is suggested . 
cofactors in male-female sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . in a study of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) - uninfected african prostitutes , 83 ( 67 % ) of 124 seroconverted to hiv-1 . oral contraceptive use ( odds ratio [ or ] , 3.1 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 1.1-8 .6 ; p less than .03 ) , genital ulcers ( mean annual episodes , 1.32 + / - 0.55 in seroconverting women vs. 0.48 + / - 0.21 in seronegative women ; p less than .02 ) and chlamydia trachomatis infections ( or , 3.6 ; ci , 1.3-11 .0 ; p less than .02 ) were associated with increased risk of hiv-1 infection . condom use reduced the risk of hiv-1 infection ( or , 0.11 ; ci , 0.05-0 .27 ; p less than .0001 ) . stepwise logistic regression analysis confirmed independent associations between hiv-1 infection and oral contraceptive use , condom use , genital ulcers , and c. trachomatis . the presence of other sexually transmitted diseases may in part explain the heterosexual hiv-1 epidemic in africa and may represent important targets for intervention to control hiv-1 infection . 
host genetic influences on fetal susceptibility to murine cytomegalovirus after maternal or fetal infection . genetically determined resistance to murine cytomegalovirus is observed in adult mice and is mediated in part by genes of the h-2 complex , with the h-2k haplotype conferring resistance . this model was used to examine the effect of primary maternal infection on fetal outcome . the severity of fetal growth retardation and death after primary maternal infection on day 8 of pregnancy was found to be genetically determined . fetal viability and weight were significantly lower in infected balb/c mothers ( h-2d ) than in cba ( h-2k ) and balb.k ( h-2k ) mothers . however , fetal infection was not detected , suggesting that the resistance mechanisms operate at the level of the mother or placenta . by directly inoculating fetuses in utero , it was shown that genetic factors in the fetus can influence the level of fetal infection and viability . these results point to the possibility that host genetic factors may modulate maternal and fetal cytomegalovirus infections in humans . 
therapy for women hospitalized with acute pyelonephritis : a randomized trial of ampicillin versus trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for 14 days . the efficacy of the traditionally recommended ampicillin ( amp ) plus gentamicin ( gm ) regimen was compared with that of a trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ( tmp/smz ) - plus-gm regimen and the adequacy of 14 days total therapy for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis ( aupn ) . eighty-five women hospitalized for aupn were randomly assigned to receive either amp , 1 g intravenously ( iv ) every 6 h for 3 days , then 500 mg orally four times daily , or tmp/smz , 160/800 mg iv every 12 h for 3 days , then 160/800 mg orally twice daily . initially , all patients also received gm every 8 h iv ( mean , 606 doses ) . antimicrobial resistance necessitated modifying therapy of 14 ( 32 % ) of the amp recipients but of none of the tmp/smz recipients ( p less than .001 ) . both regimens produced a satisfactory bacteriologic and clinical response in all cases . reinfection occurred in 11 % of amp and in 8 % of tmp/smz recipients . no patient experienced relapsing infection . the tmp/smz regimen was less costly and less likely to require modification due to antimicrobial resistance . 
dependence among host response parameters used to diagnose urinary tract infection . the host-response parameters fever , c-reactive protein ( crp ) , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) are activated in concert by cytokines such as interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) . il-6 is secreted in response to escherichia coli infection of the urinary tract . this study tested the hypothesis that the level of fever , crp , and esr is coregulated in individual patients . body temperature , crp , esr , pyuria , and renal concentrating capacity were analyzed in 692 children with first-time urinary tract infections . the association of the parameters was evaluated by correlation and multiple regression analysis . the body temperature , crp , and esr were significantly correlated ( r = .54 , .58 , and .58 ; p less than .001 ) , and variation in crp and esr explained approximately 40 % of the variation in fever . in contrast , the renal concentrating capacity and pyruia were weakly or not at all correlated with the febrile response ( r = -.22 ; p less than .001 ) , and less than 10 % of the variation in renal concentrating capacity was explained by the other parameters . the results suggest that fever , crp , and esr describe the same aspect of the host response to uti . 
transfection and stable transformation of adult mouse schwann cells with sv-40 large t antigen gene . cultured schwann cells derived from adult mouse dorsal root ganglia and peripheral nerves were transfected with a plasmid containing sv-40 large t antigen gene , and 25 colonies of stable transformants were obtained , one of which was expanded and recloned . this transfected cell line , designated ms1 , expressed sv-40 large t antigen and showed continuous cell growth with a doubling time of 27 hours . the ms1 cells had distinct schwann cell phenotypes such as s-100 protein , laminin , 2 ' ,3 ' - cyclic nucleotide 3 ' - phosphodiesterase and p0 protein , as shown by immunofluorescence microscopy . when ms1 cells were exposed to dibutyryl cyclic adenosine-3 ' ,5 ' - monophosphate ( dbc amp ) , they extended long bipolar processes two - to ten-fold longer than those of untreated ms1 cells and frequently formed whorl-like alignments similar to palisade formations or organoid patterns observed in human schwannomas and neurofibromas . these results suggest that transformed schwann cells can be a useful model for analyzing regulatory mechanisms of schwann cells , neuron-schwann cell interactions and experimental schwann cell neoplasms in vitro . 
acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis in sjl/j mice induced by a synthetic peptide of myelin proteolipid protein . clinical , histologic , and ultrastructural characteristics of acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis ( eae ) induced by sensitization with a synthetic peptide corresponding to mouse myelin proteolipid protein ( plp ) residues 139-151 hclgkwlghpdkf were studied in sjl/j mice . groups of mice were immunized with 20 , 50 , or 100 nmol of the peptide and were killed from seven to 28 days after sensitization or when they were moribund . beginning on day 9 , the mice showed signs of eae and the disease progressed rapidly to paralysis . central nervous system ( cns ) inflammation , edema , gliosis , and demyelination were found in all mice killed between days 10 and 28 and white matter lesion areas correlated with clinical score at the time the mice were killed . peripheral nerve roots and the cauda equina did not have lesions . within the range studied , the severity of clinical or histologic disease was the same regardless of the plp peptide dose . two of ten mice immunized with 100 nmol and none of 14 mice given smaller doses of a synthetic peptide of mouse myelin basic protein ( mbp ) showed clinical eae . these mice had small numbers of cns lesions that were indistinguishable from those in plp peptide-sensitized mice . these findings demonstrate that immunization of sjl/j mice with plp peptide 139-151 produces a disease with the clinical and morphologic features of cns tissue - , whole plp - , whole mbp - , and mbp peptide-induced acute eae . thus , plp is a major encephalitogen and immune reactions to epitopes of different myelin proteins may induce identical patterns of injury in the cns . 
characteristics of oculomotor disorders of a family with joseph 's disease . the oculomotor abnormalities of 12 patients of a large japanese family with joseph 's disease were investigated and compared with those of 27 patients with olivopontocerebellar atrophy ( opca ) . all 12 patients had limitation of upward gaze , impairment of convergence and horizontal gaze nystagmus . however , none had abnormalities of pupillary shape or light reflexes . impairments of saccadic and pursuit eye movements were frequently present . further , difficulty of eyelid opening , bulging eyes , impairment of optokinetic and caloric responses and square wave jerks were seen in some of the patients . the autopsy examination of 1 patient revealed marked neuronal loss in the oculomotor nucleus with preservation of the edinger-westphal nucleus and neuronal decrease , myelin loss and gliosis of the dorsal midbrain including superior colliculus , pretectum and posterior commissures . disturbance of upward gaze , sparing of pupillary light reflexes and horizontal gaze nystagmus were frequent and early symptoms . the pattern of oculomotor disturbances is different from that of opca and evaluation of the oculomotor system is useful for clinical diagnosis of the disease . 
reliability of the clinical and electromyographic examination of tendon reflexes . the reliability of clinical examination of the tendon reflexes was examined by studying inter-observer agreement . twenty patients were examined by three neurologists . the briskness of the tendon reflexes in arms and legs was scored on a nine-point scale . in 28 % of the 160 examined reflexes the observations disagreed 2 scale units or more . disagreement on the presence of asymmetry occurred in 45 % of the 80 reflex pairs . in 15 % one observer judged a reflex pair to be symmetrical while another observer found asymmetry of at least 2 scale units . in a second experiment clinical observation of apparently asymmetrical quadriceps reflexes was compared with measurement by surface electromyography . a significant , semi-logarithmic relationship was found between clinical scores and measured reflex amplitudes . measured reflex asymmetry always agreed with clinical asymmetry , and the magnitudes of right-left amplitude differences were correlated with the magnitude of clinically observed asymmetry . the bedside examination of tendon reflexes is subject to considerable inter-observer disagreement . 
fasciculations due to verapamil in a patient with neuropathy . a patient with pre-existing peripheral neuropathy developed generalized fasciculations under verapamil which ceased after discontinuation of the drug . it is suggested that the increase in acetylcholine ( ach ) release at the neuromuscular junction by verapamil may trigger fasciculation in the state of regeneration at ach-sensitive sites of axon terminals and immature axon sprouts . 
treatment of advanced-stage massive mediastinal hodgkin 's disease : the case for combined modality treatment . in the initial series of 198 patients treated at the national cancer institute ( nci ) with mechlorethamine , vincristine , procarbazine , and prednisone ( mopp ) chemotherapy for hodgkin 's disease , a review of presenting chest radiographs available on 192 of these patients showed 49 patients with mediastinal masses greater than one third the greatest posteroanterior chest diameter . five patients had stage iib disease , and 44 had stage iii or iv disease . thirty-five ( 71 % ) patients achieved a complete remission with mopp chemotherapy . fourteen ( 40 % ) of the complete responders relapsed , but four of these achieved durable remissions in response to subsequent therapy . thirty ( 61 % ) patients have died ( 14 induction failures , nine relapsed patients , seven complete responders in remission ) . thus , with a median follow-up of 20 years ( range , 15 to 23 ) , the overall survival for the group is 39 % , and the disease-free survival for the complete responders is 60 % . a subset of 10 patients received mantle radiation therapy after maximal response to mopp . one of these patients failed to achieve complete remission , but among the nine complete responders only one has relapsed . in contrast , 13 of 26 ( 50 % ) patients achieving a complete response to mopp alone have relapsed ( p2 = .0536 ) . although mopp alone was not prospectively compared with mopp plus radiation therapy in the treatment of advanced-stage massive mediastinal hodgkin 's disease in this series , the retrospective analysis shows a nearly significant difference in disease-free survival favoring combined modality treatment . the difference in tumor mortality between mopp-treated ( 44 % ) and combined modality-treated patients ( 80 % ) was also nearly significant ( p2 = .055 ) . however , overall survival differences between patients treated with mopp alone and those treated with combined modality therapy were not significantly different ( p2 = 0.23 ) because of the mortality related to late complications of combined modality treatment . 
discordant bone marrow involvement in diffuse large-cell lymphoma : a distinct clinical-pathologic entity associated with a continuous risk of relapse . from 1975 to 1988 , 50 patients with lymph node biopsy-documented diffuse large-cell lymphoma ( dlcl ) presented with bone marrow involvement . twenty-four patients ( 48 % ) had large-cell lymphoma ( lcl ) in the bone marrow and were compared with 19 ( 38 % ) patients who had small cleaved-cell lymphoma ( sccl ) in the marrow . additionally , seven patients ( 14 % ) had mixed small - and large-cell lymphoma ( ml ) in the marrow . patients who had lcl marrow involvement were younger ( p less than .02 ) and more frequently had elevated lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) levels ( p less than .001 ) , high tumor burden ( p less than .01 ) , and more sites of extranodal disease ( p less than .05 ) than those with sccl in the marrow . the complete response ( cr ) rate to multiagent chemotherapy was 16.7 % in the lcl group and 89.4 % in the sccl group ( p less than .001 ) . one third of the patients with lcl in the marrow developed cns involvement , compared with only one patient in the sccl group ( p = .06 ) . overall 5-year survival was 79 % in patients with sccl marrow involvement , compared with only 12 % in patients with lcl in the marrow ( p = .002 ) . despite a high cr rate , patients with marrow involved by sccl were at a high continuous risk of relapse with only a 30 % failure-free survival at 5 years . we conclude that bone marrow involvement with lcl predicts for extremely poor prognosis with low response rate and short survival . patients with sccl in the bone marrow have a high rate of cr and a high rate of 5-year survival ; however , there is a high risk of late relapse , and only 15 % are in a continuous remission at 8 years . 
pentostatin induces durable remissions in hairy cell leukemia . fifty patients with hairy cell leukemia were treated with pentostatin ( 2 ' - deoxycoformycin ; dcf ) for a median of 3 months ; 32 ( 64 % ) patients achieved complete remission ( cr ) , and 10 ( 20 % ) patients achieved partial remission ( pr ) , for an overall response rate of 84 % . after reaching maximal response , no maintenance therapy was administered . the median duration of follow-up is now 39 months , and only four of 32 patients in cr and two of 10 patients in pr have relapsed . dcf therapy produces durable long-term , disease-free survival in patients with hairy cell leukemia . 
a comparison of induction and maintenance therapy for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in childhood : results of a pediatric oncology group study . two hundred fifty-six children with previously untreated acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) were evaluated on a pediatric oncology group ( pog ) phase iii randomized trial of both induction and continuation chemotherapies . induction therapy compared vincristine , cytarabine , and dexamethasone ( vadx ) with daunorubicin , cytarabine , and thioguanine ( dat ) . the complete remission ( cr ) rate using dat was superior ( 82 % v 61 % , p = .02 ) . postremission therapy consisted of either " standard " two-cycle therapy or a more intensive four-cycle regimen given for 2 years . overall , there was no difference in outcome for patients randomized to either continuation regimen . the overall complete continuous remission rate ( ccr ) for the " best " induction/continuation therapy combination at 2 years was .50 ( se = .06 ) , at 3 years was .35 ( .04 ) , and at 4 years was .34 ( .05 ) . analysis of selected clinical and laboratory parameters demonstrated differences in induction responses favoring dat induction but did not impact eventual disease-free survival . there were two subgroups of patients who responded better to four-cycle continuation therapy . these were patients with french-american-british ( fab ) m1/m2 ( 2-year ccr was .20 v .44 , p = .01 ) and patients older than 10 years at diagnosis ( .32 v .62 , p = .004 ) . 
hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome -- a complication of dactinomycin therapy for wilms ' tumor : a report from the united kingdom childrens cancer study group . we have observed hepatopathy , associated with thrombocytopenia , in children receiving chemotherapy for wilms ' tumor . we have studied this hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome ( hts ) in patients enrolled in the united kingdom childrens ' cancer study group ( ukccsg ) wilms ' tumor trials ( ukw1 and ukw2 ) . at the time of this study , 501 patients had completed therapy . treatment flow sheets were examined for evidence of hepatopathy ( hepatomegaly with abnormal liver function tests ) and severe thrombocytopenia ( platelet count less than 25 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . no child who developed the syndrome had received irradiation . hts was seen in five of 355 ( 1.4 % ) of patients treated with combination chemotherapy but in none of the 146 patients treated with vincristine alone . in each instance , the onset was less than 10 weeks after diagnosis . in two children , hepatopathy was severe with jaundice , ascites , transaminases greater than 1,000 iu/l , and prolongation of prothrombin time . on average , hts lasted 12 days , and resolved with supportive treatment . after recovery , the children tolerated chemotherapy , mostly at reduced dosage , without recurrence . there was no evident long-term morbidity . dactinomycin is the probable cause of this syndrome . we conclude that the hts is a rare but important complication of dactinomycin-containing combination chemotherapy for wilms ' tumor . children developing " isolated " thrombocytopenia following dactinomycin are " at risk " of developing the full-blown syndrome and should have their treatment modified accordingly . 
a prospective randomized trial comparing epirubicin monochemotherapy to two fluorouracil , cyclophosphamide , and epirubicin regimens differing in epirubicin dose in advanced breast cancer patients . the french epirubicin study group the french epirubicin study group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil ( 5fu ) 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 ( fec 50 ) and 5fu 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 ( fec 75 ) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients . patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only . four hundred twelve patients entered this trial ; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy . the overall response rates were comparable between fec 50 ( 44.6 % ) and fec 75 ( 44.7 % ) , but both were better than the epirubicin alone ( 30.6 % ) ( p = .04 and p = .0006 , respectively ) . the complete response rate was better in fec 75 ( 15.5 % ) than in fec 50 ( 7 % ) ( p = .025 ) or epirubicin ( 4 % ) ( p = .002 ) . similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases . no difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only . mean durations of response were similar in the three groups , being 412 days , 440 days , and 350 days for fec 50 , fec 75 , and epirubicin , respectively . patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment ( without anthracyclines ) . tolerability was fair in the three groups . overall , the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups , which did not differ significantly . time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups , but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and fec 50 groups ; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the fec 75 group , and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the fec 75 group was of borderline significance . no difference in survival was observed between epirubicin - and fec 50-group patients , even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group . 
central corpectomy for cervical spondylotic myelopathy : a consecutive series with long-term follow-up evaluation . since 1984 , a consecutive series of patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy has been treated by central corpectomy and strut grafting . this report focuses on 40 cases operated on between 1984 and 1987 and followed from 2 to 5 years . the perioperative complication rate was 47.5 % , with a 7.5 % incidence of persistent sequelae : severe c-5 radiculopathy in one patient , swallowing dysfunction in one , and hypoglossal nerve palsy in one . no single factor ( age , duration of symptoms , or severity of myelopathy ) was absolutely predictive of outcome ; however , syndromes of short duration had the best likelihood of cure . similar outcomes were associated , individually , with long duration of symptoms , age over 70 years , and severe myelopathy . after factoring a 5 % regression of improvement , the long-term cure rate was 57.5 % and the failure rate was 15 % . myelopathy worsening was not documented . 
the interspinous method of posterior atlantoaxial arthrodesis . thirty-six patients underwent c1-2 posterior wiring and fusion procedures over a 5-year period for unstable c-2 fractures ( eight cases ) , unstable atlas-axis combination fractures ( six cases ) , rheumatoid c1-2 instability ( 14 cases ) , os odontoideum ( four cases ) , traumatic c1-2 ligamentous instability ( three cases ) , or instability secondary to a c-2 tumor ( one case ) . in each case , the atlantoaxial arthrodesis utilized sublaminar wire at c-1 and incorporated an iliac-crest strut-graft positioned between the posterior arches of c-1 and c-2 , held in place by securing wire around the base of the spinous process of the axis . follow-up examination was performed in all patients after a mean postoperative duration of 33.7 months . the technical aspects and clinical merits of this fusion procedure , which led to a 97 % union rate ( one nonunion ) and minimal morbidity and mortality rates , are presented . 
a variant of arteriovenous fistulas within the wall of dural sinuses . results of combined surgical and endovascular therapy . dural arteriovenous ( av ) fistulas are thought to be acquired lesions that form in an area of thrombosis within a sinus . if the sinus remains completely thrombosed , venous drainage from these lesions occurs through cortical veins , or , if the sinus is open , venous drainage is usually into the involved sinus . among 105 patients with dural av fistulas evaluated over the the past 5 years , seven had a unique type of dural av fistula in the superior sagittal , transverse , or straight sinus in which only cortical venous drainage occurred despite a patent involved sinus ; the fistula was located within the wall of a patent dural sinus , but outflow was not into the involved sinus . this variant of dural av fistulas puts the patient at serious risk for hemorrhage or neurological dysfunction caused by venous hypertension . three patients presented with hemorrhage , one with progressive neurological dysfunction , one with seizures , and two with bruit and headaches . a combination of surgical and endovascular techniques was used to close the fistula while preserving flow through the sinus . 
management of hemorrhagic complications from preoperative embolization of arteriovenous malformations . endovascular embolization procedures have undergone dramatic evolution and improvement in recent years . despite these advances , controversy remains regarding the optimal role of these procedures in treating cerebral arteriovenous malformations ( avm 's ) and whether their purpose should be as a presurgical adjunct or as primary therapy . this controversy risks fragmentation between disciplines in the broader efforts to improve management of cerebrovascular disorders . the authors report seven cases of life-threatening hemorrhages that occurred during staged invasive therapy for avm 's which illustrate the value of a unified team approach to optimize patient care . each patient underwent at least one embolization procedure using polyvinyl alcohol particles , followed in two cases by the occlusion of proximal feeding vessels by platinum microcoils and in one case by the attempted detachment of an endovascular balloon . in three patients , catheter penetration into the subarachnoid space resulted in subarachnoid hemorrhage . one patient suffered rupture of a large feeding vessel during balloon inflation . the final three patients sustained intracranial hemorrhage 2 hours , 8 hours , and 5 days , respectively , following embolization . all but two patients underwent emergency craniotomy at the time of the complication . these cases underscore the advantages of interdisciplinary management optimizing decision-making and providing expeditious care when life-threatening complications develop . 
acute subdural hematoma : morbidity , mortality , and operative timing . traumatic acute subdural hematoma remains one of the most lethal of all head injuries . since 1981 , it has been strongly held that the critical factor in overall outcome from acute subdural hematoma is timing of operative intervention for clot removal ; those operated on within 4 hours of injury may have mortality rates as low as 30 % with functional survival rates as high as 65 % . data were reviewed for 1150 severely head-injured patients ( glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) scores 3 to 7 ) treated at a level 1 trauma center between 1982 and 1987 ; 101 of these patients had acute subdural hematoma . standard treatment protocol included aggressive prehospital resuscitation measures , rapid operative intervention , and aggressive postoperative control of intracranial pressure ( icp ) . the overall mortality rate was 66 % , and 19 % had functional recovery . the following variables statistically correlated ( p less than 0.05 ) with outcome ; motorcycle accident as a mechanism of injury , age over 65 years , admission gcs score of 3 or 4 , and postoperative icp greater than 45 mm hg . the time from injury to operative evacuation of the acute subdural hematoma in regard to outcome morbidity and mortality was not statistically significant even when examined at hourly intervals although there were trends indicating that earlier surgery improved outcome . the findings of this study support the pathophysiological evidence that , in acute subdural hematoma , the extent of primary underlying brain injury is more important than the subdural clot itself in dictating outcome ; therefore , the ability to control icp is more critical to outcome than the absolute timing of subdural blood removal . 
orbital rim and malar advancement for unilateral coronal synostosis in the older pediatric age group . the authors describe a technique for lateral orbital rim and malar advancement in patients in the older pediatric age group . the technique makes use of a strip craniotomy containing the supraorbital margin , greater sphenoid wing , and temporal bone , with en bloc inclusion of the lateral orbital rim , zygoma , and malar prominence . the method allows a contoured yet stable construction secured in a tongue-in-groove fashion with plate-and-screw fixation . it creates a symmetrical reconstruction of both frontal and lateral orbital aspects in the untreated or inadequately treated older plagiocephalic child with orbital dystopia . the accompanying malar recession is likewise corrected . 
intracranial arachnoid cysts in children . a comparison of the effects of fenestration and shunting . the best operative intervention for children with arachnoid cysts remains the subject of controversy . recent reports stress that craniotomy for cyst fenestration is associated with a low incidence of morbidity and mortality and may leave the child shunt-independent . the cases of 40 pediatric patients with arachnoid cysts treated between 1978 and 1989 are reported . five children with mild symptoms and small cysts that remained stable on follow-up studies have not required surgical intervention . of 15 patients with cysts initially treated by fenestration , 10 ( 67 % ) showed no clinical or radiographic improvement postoperatively and have undergone cyst-peritoneal ( eight patients ) or ventriculoperitoneal ( vp ) shunting ( one patient ) , or revision of a vp shunt placed for hydrocephalus before cyst fenestration ( one patient ) . two other patients with existing vp shunts required no further procedures . thus , only three ( 20 % ) of 15 patients initially treated by fenestration remain shunt-independent after a median follow-up period of 8 years . the 20 other patients were initially treated by cysts shunting and all improved postoperatively ; shunt revision has been necessary in six ( 30 % ) of these 20 patients because of cysts recurrence . cyst location influenced the success of shunt treatment ; none of the seven middle cranial fossa cysts treated by shunting have required revision , but results with cysts in other locations were less favorable . in all locations , though , shunting was more successful than fenestration . it is concluded that cyst-peritoneal or cyst-vp shunting is the procedure of choice for arachnoid cysts in most locations , including those in the middle cranial fossa . 
dorsal root ganglionectomy for failed back surgery syndrome : a 5-year follow-up study . dorsal root ganglionectomy has been suggested as a method for the treatment of chronic intractable radicular pain , with theoretical advantages over dorsal rhizotomy , which does not interrupt ventral root afferents . the indications for these procedures in patients with persistent pain following lumbosacral spine surgery are not well established . long-term results have been reported infrequently , and no published series has a mean follow-up period of more than 30 months . the authors have reviewed their experience with a series of 13 patients with failed back surgery syndrome , in whom dorsal root ganglionectomy was performed . patients were selected on the basis of clinical presentation and diagnostic root blocks suggesting a monoradicular pain syndrome . follow-up data were obtained at a mean of 5.5 years following dorsal root ganglionectomy . follow-up interviews to assess outcome were conducted by a disinterested third party . treatment " success " ( at least 50 % sustained relief of pain and patient satisfaction with the result ) was recorded in two patients at 2 years after surgery and in none at 5.5 years . equivocal success ( at least 50 % relief , without clearcut patient satisfaction ) was recorded in one patient at 2 and at 5.5 years postoperatively . improvements in activities of daily living were recorded in a minority of patients . loss of sensory and motor function was reported frequently by patients . a minority of patients had reduced or eliminated analgesic intake . these results suggest that dorsal root ganglionectomy has a limited role in the management of failed back surgery syndrome , and that methods to select patients to receive this procedure should be refined or alternative approaches should be considered . 
intraoperative monitoring of the facial nerve during decompressive surgery for hemifacial spasm . in 11 consecutive patients , intraoperative electromyographic ( emg ) recordings were made from the facial muscles during microvascular decompression for hemifacial spasm . in one patient , recordings could not be obtained for technical reasons , and two patients had no abnormality . in the remaining eight patients , the abnormal response resolved before decompression in two , resolved immediately at the time of decompression in five , and failed to resolve in one . all patients were relieved of their hemifacial spasm . in the five patients whose abnormalities resolved at the time of decompression , there was a precise intraoperative correlation between decompression of the nerve and disappearance of the abnormal emg response . in three cases , this was a useful guide to the need to decompress more than one vessel . these results confirm the findings of moller and jannetta , support the use of this technique for intraoperative monitoring of facial nerve decompression procedures , and provide strong circumstantial evidence that vascular cross-compression is an important etiological factor in hemifacial spasm . 
familial hemifacial spasm associated with arterial compression of the facial nerve . case report . this report of an 88-year-old woman with familial hemifacial spasm includes the first published postmortem description of hemifacial spasm with cross-compression of the seventh cranial nerve root exit zone by a redundant loop of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery and associated vascular plexus . histological examination of the seventh and eighth cranial nerve complex suggested nerve degeneration because increased numbers of corpora amylacea were present just distal to the compression concavity . there was no evidence of demyelination or gliosis of the nerve . this case suggests that vascular compression of the nerve root exit zone is an important condition in the etiology of most of these cases . this is the third reported case of familial hemifacial spasm ; to date , all such patients have had left facial involvement . the family pedigree in this case suggests a pattern of autosomal-dominant inheritance with partial penetrance . the genetic basis for familial hemifacial spasm may involve anatomical variants or anomalies of the posterior circulation , since both posterior inferior cerebellar arteries were congenitally absent in this case . 
treatment of intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy with thrombin . report of three patients . of 165 consecutive patients undergoing computerized tomography - or magnetic resonance imaging-guided stereotactic brain biopsies at the cleveland clinic between june , 1987 , and november , 1989 , four patients ( 2.4 % ) developed arterial hemorrhage refractory to conventional efforts to secure hemostasis . craniotomy was performed in one of these patients to control the hemorrhage ; in the other three , 0.5 to 2 cc of thrombin ( 5000 u/cc ) was slowly injected via the biopsy cannula , resulting in immediate control of bleeding in all three cases . postoperatively , the first two patients treated with 1 to 2 cc of thrombin were slow to awaken ; one had evidence of vasospasm by transcranial doppler ultrasound studies and multiple infarcts on cranial computerized tomography , while the other had a moderate-sized frontal hematoma with intracranial hypertension . after prolonged recovery periods , only mild neurological deficits persisted in both patients . the third patient , treated with 0.5 cc of thrombin , had an uneventful postoperative course . thrombin is highly effective for stopping intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy ; however , it is a vasospastic agent and may have been responsible for the cerebral infarctions in one patient . therefore , thrombin should be used only as a last resort , short of craniotomy , to control intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy . 
bronchobiliary fistula detected by cholescintigraphy . we present a case of a bronchobiliary fistula initially detected by hepatobiliary scintigraphy . the patient developed bilioptysis 18 mo after undergoing a right hepatic lobectomy and resection of the common bile duct for cholangiocarcinoma . the procedure was complicated by the development of a subphrenic abscess that required percutaneous biliary drainage . 
microvascular right-to-left pulmonary shunt demonstrated by a radionuclide method . a 37-yr-old man with angiolymphoid hyperplasia ( kimura 's syndrome ) , who had been treated unsuccessfully for suspected asthma , was investigated due to a decrease in arterial oxygen saturation ( 86 % ) . right heart catheterization and angiography of the pulmonary artery failed to demonstrate any right-to-left shunts . however , simultaneous scintigraphy over the lungs , kidneys , and head after injection of 150 mbq technetium-99m-labeled macroaggregated albumin i.v. and inhalation of 150 mbq krypton-81m demonstrated a right-to-left shunt in the lungs probably caused by precapillary pulmonary arteriovenous shunts . 
long-term follow-up in toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodules treated with radioactive iodine the long-term effects of radioiodine treatment on thyroid function in patients with a toxic solitary autonomous thyroid nodule were evaluated . fifty-two patients received a therapeutic dose of 20 mci of iodine-131 ( 131i ) . duration of follow-up was 10 + / - 4 yr . follow-up data included a biochemical evaluation of thyroid function . the failure rate ( recurrent hyperthyroidism ) was 2 % . the incidence of hypothyroidism was 6 % and was not related to the dose per gram of nodular tissue . oral administration of 20 mci of radioiodine is a simple and highly effective method for the treatment of patients with a toxic autonomous thyroid nodule . the risk of development of hypothyroidism is low if extranodular uptake of 131i is prevented . this can be achieved by not treating euthyroid patients , by no longer using injections of exogenous thyroid stimulating hormone in the diagnostic work-up of the patients and by always performing radioiodine imaging shortly before treatment . 
antiarrhythmic efficacy of a new class iii agent , uk-68 ,798 , during chronic myocardial infarction : evaluation using three-dimensional mapping . uk-68 ,798 is a potent class iii antiarrhythmic agent that selectively lengthens the effective refractory period ( erp ) in isolated tissue without affecting conduction velocity . the present study was performed to evaluate the antiarrhythmic efficacy of uk-68 ,798 ( 30 micrograms/kg i.v. ) in dogs with a previous myocardial infarction . uk-68 ,798 did not alter the pq interval or qrs duration of the surface electrocardiogram but did increase the q-tc interval significantly . the ventricular erp was increased significantly ( p less than .01 ) at a basic cycle length of stimulation of either 300 ms ( erp increased 24 + / - 10 ms ) or 250 ms ( erp increased 20 + / - 12 msec ) , indicating that the response was preserved at more rapid rates . uk-68 ,798 prevented the induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia in six of seven animals ( 86 % , p = .03 ) . however , uk-68 ,798 failed to prevent the induction of ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) in dogs where vf was the only arrhythmia induced . to evaluate the mechanisms responsible for the prevention of ventricular tachycardia and lack of efficacy against inducible vf , detailed three-dimensional activation mapping of the heart in vivo was used . induction of ventricular tachycardia was prevented by uk-68 ,798 due to a lengthening of the erp in the epicardial region surrounding the infarct with no effect on conduction velocity even in periinfarct regions bordering the infarct . in contrast , the induction of vf was dependent on a rapid nonreentrant or focal mechanism that was not altered by the lengthening of erp with uk-68 ,798 . thus , uk-68 ,798 is a selective class iii antiarrhythmic agent that is likely to be efficacious in preventing arrhythmias due to a reentrant mechanism in patients with a previous myocardial infarction . 
a study of fatigue in systemic lupus erythematosus . fifty-nine patients with systemic lupus erythematosus were evaluated by questionnaires , histories , physical examinations and routine laboratory studies in order to better understand their fatigue . the fatigue severity scale ( scored from 1 to 7 ) was used to measure fatigue and yielded a mean score + / - sd of 4.6 + / - 1.5 . fifty-three percent of the patients reported that fatigue was their most disabling symptom . although perceived as severe , the symptom of fatigue did not correlate significantly with any of the laboratory measures . however , there was a significant correlation between fatigue and the physician 's rating of disease activity . fatigue also correlated significantly with depression which accounted for 21 % of the variation in fatigue scores . 
some osseous and soft tissue causes of human intervertebral canal ( foramen ) stenosis . much attention has been paid to the causes of vertebral canal stenosis in humans but relatively little has been documented with regard to intervertebral canal ( intervertebral " foramen , " lateral spinal canal , nerve root canal ) stenosis . as the dural sleeve ends at the outer opening of the intervertebral canal , a false " normal " myelogram is possible when a space occupying lesion occurs beyond the subarachnoid space . also , if stenosis affects only vascular structures , compression of these structures can not be noted during myelography , so venous stasis may be overlooked . our cadaveric study investigates some causes of intervertebral canal stenosis due to encroachment by bony and soft tissue structures , and low magnification photomicrographs are used to illustrate some causes of stenosis . 
a possible role for antiphospholipid antibodies in acquired cardiac valve deformity . we studied the frequency of antiphospholipid antibodies ( apl ) in patients undergoing cardiac valve replacement , and present the results in the context of the pathology of the valve lesions . forty-eight consecutive patients undergoing valve replacement were studied . of the whole group , 15 ( 31 % ) had antibody levels greater than 2 sd above the mean for a control group of healthy persons and 11 ( 23 % ) had a level of greater than 3 sd . there was an increased frequency of elevated antibody levels in patients with valves showing fibrocalcific change and a significant association between apl and valve thrombus . the possible role of these antibodies in the pathogenesis of the valve lesions is discussed . 
effects of prostaglandin e1 on collagen diseases with high levels of circulating immune complexes . prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) was administered to 4 patients with collagen diseases presenting with high levels of circulating immune complexes ( cic ) in sera . our study patients had progressive systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , polyarteritis nodosa , and rheumatoid arthritis . in all 4 patients , cic levels significantly decreased after administration of pge1 by continuous infusion at 10/ng/kg / min via central venous catheter for 72 h. in addition , the skin ulcer in a patient with pss healed completely , and the finger necrosis in a patient with ra improved . these results suggest that pge1 given by continuous venous infusion is effective in reducing cic , in addition to improving peripheral vascular disorders . 
ankylosing spondylitis with exuberant sclerosis in the sacroiliac joints , symphysis pubis and spine . we report the case of a man with ankylosing spondylitis involving the symphysis pubis and some intervertebral discs in addition to the sacroiliac joints . the bone adjacent to each inflammatory area showed an unusually exuberant sclerosis . in the early phases of evolution the appearance of sacroilitis was indistinguishable from that of osteitis condensans ilii . 
l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . we describe the spectrum of clinical and histologic abnormalities of 11 women with l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the illness is characterized by musculoskeletal symptoms including myalgias , arthralgias and paresthesias . the physical findings consist of muscle tenderness , neuropathies , rash , peripheral and periorbital edema . electroneurography performed in 10 patients demonstrated a neuropathy in 5 and myopathic changes in 3 . skin and muscle biopsies showed fascial edema , inflammation and perivascular infiltrates in the skin , whereas perineural infiltrates and venulitis were identified in muscle . seven patients were treated with prednisone ; eosinophilia disappeared promptly although myalgias and neuropathy persisted . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan use . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the use of oral preparations of the amino acid l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989 . we describe the clinical and laboratory manifestations , pathological findings and early clinical course of 20 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . prominent clinical findings included severe myalgias limiting function , fatigue , rashes , edema and weight gain , weight loss , muscle weakness and shortness of breath . laboratory findings included eosinophilia ( often marked ) , normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and elevated aldolase with normal or low creatine kinase values . on biopsy fascial inflammation was always seen consisting of lymphocytes , histiocytes and eosinophils in a perivascular distribution . invasion of the vascular wall by lymphocytes was seen in 20 % . capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening was found in most cases on electron microscopy and endothelial cell necrosis or mural invasion by lymphocytes was seen in 25 % of cases . two patients improved with no therapy . ten patients responded to therapy with prednisone alone . three patients have had progressive disease and one of these died . the relationship of this syndrome to previously described disease entities associated with eosinophilia is discussed . 
microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989 . we describe our pathologic study of skin , fascial , and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy , histochemistry , and electron microscopy . a perivascular , lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis , fascia , and skeletal muscle . lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen . ultrastructurally , capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present . this microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome . 
an eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with an l-tryptophan containing product . a syndrome of eosinophilia and myalgias associated with the usage of l-tryptophan containing products has been recently described by the centers for disease control . we report a case of this new clinical entity , highlighted by severe myositis , and compare this illness with similar reported syndromes . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in association with l-tryptophan ingestion . the association between the recently described eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and l-tryptophan is now well established . we describe a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who developed incapacitating myalgias and peripheral eosinophilia responsive only to high dose corticosteroids . when massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage developed while receiving corticosteroid therapy , surgery was complicated by striking abdominal wall rigidness . a discussion of this case and of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is presented . 
l-tryptophan associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . environmental chemicals are increasingly incriminated in the pathogenesis of several disease states . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a recently described entity attributed to the ingestion of the normal dietary amino acid l-tryptophan . we describe a patient who fulfills criteria for the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and who was ingesting supplemental l-tryptophan . exhaustive investigations failed to reveal other causes for her eosinophilia or her myalgic/neuropathic complaints , and she improved dramatically when she discontinued the l-tryptophan supplements . the mechanisms whereby this chemical may induce this syndrome are discussed . 
effect of interleukin-1-beta on metastasis formation in different tumor systems . experiments were done to determine the effect of interleukin-1-beta ( il-1 beta ) on metastasis formation in different tumor systems . intravenous administration of 1 microgram of human recombinant il-1 beta given 1 hour before tumor cell injection augmented lung colony formation ( experimental metastases ) by the human a375 melanoma variants , the human ht-29m colon carcinoma , the sn12-k1 renal carcinoma in nude mice , the murine b16 melanoma variants , and the murine uv-2237m fibrosarcoma in syngeneic recipients . the same treatment did not induce lung colony formation by a human rectal carcinoma ( hcc-p2988 ) or by a murine reticulum cell sarcoma ( m5076 ) , both of which are not metastatic to the lung . spontaneous metastases were studied in c57bl/6 mice bearing the b16-bl6 melanoma ( metastatic to the lung ) in their footpad and the m5076 reticulum cell sarcoma ( metastatic to the liver ) subcutaneously . daily intraperitoneal treatment with 1 microgram of il-1 beta increased lung and liver metastases . these findings indicate that treatment of mice with il-1 beta can increase the number of artificial or spontaneous metastases and that this effect is not limited to a single tumor type or to a specific organ . 
phase i and imaging trial of indium 111-labeled anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody 225 in patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma murine monoclonal antibody ( mab ) 225 ( igg1 ) against the epidermal growth factor ( egf ) receptor competitively blocks egf binding and inhibits egf-induced activation of receptor tyrosine kinase and cell proliferation . the effect of mab 225 was studied in a phase i trial in patients with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , which invariably expresses high levels of egf receptors . groups of three patients received total doses of mab 225 ranging from 1 mg to 300 mg . except at the lowest dose , each infusion included 4 mg of indium 111 ( 111in ) - labeled mab 225 . no toxicity was observed . tumors were imaged in all patients who received doses of 20 mg or greater . presumed metastases greater than or equal to 1 cm in diameter were imaged with doses of 40 mg or greater . single-photon-emission-computed tomography could be carried out at the 120-mg and 300-mg doses and significantly improved tumor visualization . all patients produced anti-murine antibodies . we conclude that treatment with an mab that inhibits egf receptor function is safe at the doses and schedule studied . 111in-labeled mab images squamous cell lung carcinoma ; tumor uptake of the labeled mab is dose dependent . further studies are warranted to explore the potential therapeutic efficacy of anti-egf receptor mabs and other agents that act in a comparable manner . 
analysis of alterations in the retinoblastoma gene and tumor grade in bone and soft-tissue sarcomas . we examined 43 sporadic bone and soft-tissue sarcomas for molecular genetic alterations affecting the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene rb-1 ( also known as rb1 ) . the gene was altered in 6 of 14 sporadic osteosarcomas and in 5 of 29 other bone and soft-tissue sarcomas . rb-1 messenger rna ( mrna ) transcripts were detected in normal tissues and benign lipomas , but they were absent or altered in each of the 19 sarcomas we examined . to examine the association of deletions in the rb-1 gene with tumor grade , we correlated the dna alterations in the rb-1 gene with clinical data for 36 patients . the rb-1 gene was altered in 40 % of high-grade bone and soft-tissue tumors , but not in low-grade bone tumors and in only one low-grade , soft-tissue sarcoma . overall , 10 of 25 high-grade sarcomas had detectable alterations of the rb-1 gene compared with only 1 of 11 low-grade tumors . 
ureteral obstruction and ureteral fistulas after aortofemoral or aortoiliac bypass surgery . ureteral injury after aortofemoral or aortoiliac bypass surgery has seldom been described in the literature considering the large number of bypass operations performed . some causative factors , such as the position of the bypass , are obvious while others are less clear . however , no attempt has been made to unify criteria to establish a management protocol . of 154 cases of ureteral units with ectasia reviewed ureteral fistulas were present in 19 . radiological ureteral obstruction appears to precede fistula formation . symptoms , time of diagnosis and treatment according to the predominant etiology have been discussed . etiological ( in varying degrees of importance ) , clinical and diagnostic criteria , together with a management and therapeutic protocol in which early and late lesions are clearly differentiated were established , while bearing in mind that not all radiological obstruction patterns correspond to true ureteral lesions . 
use of the collings knife electrode for percutaneous access in difficult endourology cases . percutaneous endourological techniques for the removal of upper urinary tract calculi and for the closed treatment of ureteropelvic junction obstruction are well described . these techniques are dependent on satisfactory percutaneous access and nephrostomy tract dilation . we used the collings knife electrode for the creation of a nephrostomy tract in 17 patients ( 19 renal units ) with difficult percutaneous access due to scarification , or the inability to advance a guide wire sufficiently for stabilization and dilation by conventional means . a nephrostomy tract was established successfully in all 19 procedures requiring an average of 12 minutes . two major complications occurred that required blood transfusion and an open operation . endourological treatment was successful in the remaining 17 cases . we believe that this technique provides an alternative to an open operation when standard access and dilation methods for endourological procedures are unsuccessful . 
recurrent subacute torsion : prospective study of effects on testicular morphology and function . a prospective study was done on 43 consecutive patients with a diagnosis of recurrent subacute testicular torsion . all patients underwent full examination , hormonal assays and seminal fluid analysis before scrotal exploration , bilateral testicular biopsy and fixation . seminal fluid analysis and hormonal assays were repeated 3 months postoperatively . of the patients 36 were cured of recurrent pain , 35 of whom had a horizontally lying testis . no hormonal abnormalities were found preoperatively or postoperatively . three patients had abnormal seminal fluid analysis . testicular biopsies , including johnsen scores , were abnormal in these 3 patients and normal in the other 33 . it is concluded that patients with recurrent subacute torsion can be identified accurately and treated satisfactorily . there is little evidence that these patients suffer testicular damage as a result of this subacute torsion or that any pre-existing cellular abnormality exists to explain the oligospermia that frequently is seen in patients who have acute testicular torsion . 
long-term followup of asymptomatic microhematuria . we present a 10 to 20-year followup assessment of 191 patients with unexplained microhematuria ( including persons with insignificant lesions ) . genitourinary malignancies did not develop in any of the patients ( 128 alive and 27 dead ) evaluated after the first diagnostic investigation . patient and physician compliance with followup protocols was poor . we currently recommend renal ultrasound and cystoscopy for the first diagnostic survey , have abandoned routine periodic studies and advise diagnostic studies only for patients in whom symptoms develop . 
the no-scalpel vasectomy . a refined method of delivering the vas deferens for vasectomy has been developed and used in china since 1974 . this method eliminates the scalpel , results in fewer hematomas and infections , and leaves a smaller wound than conventional techniques . an extracutaneous fixation ring clamp encircles and firmly secures the vas without penetrating the skin . a sharp curved hemostat punctures and dilates the scrotal skin and vas sheath . the vas is delivered , cleaned and occluded by the surgeon 's preferred technique . the contralateral vas is delivered through the same opening . the puncture wound contracts to about 2 mm. , is not visible to the man and requires no sutures for closure . the reported incidence of hematoma in 179,741 men followed in china was 0.09 % . no hematomas or infections were identified in the first 273 procedures performed by a surgeon in the united states . the operating time in china and for the last 50 united states procedures has ranged from 5 to 11 minutes . the disadvantage of the technique is the hand-on training and number of cases necessary to gain proficiency . however , the advantages for surgeons and patients should enhance the popularity of vasectomy . 
management of posterior urethral strictures secondary to pelvic fractures in children . bulboprostatic anastomotic urethroplasty was performed in 20 children with posterior urethral strictures secondary to bony pelvic fractures . the approach was perineal in 4 children and transpubic abdominoperineal in 16 , with good postoperative results in 100 and 62.5 % , respectively . in some children the urethral disruption occurred within the prostate itself and not at the prostatomembranous junction . in such cases the proximal sphincteric mechanism may be at risk and immediate repair of the injury is advisable . in the case of common prostatomembranous disruption displacement of the urethra may be significant . in such cases a transpubic approach is preferable . if the proximal sphincteric mechanism is deranged , it can be managed at the same time . 
acute urinary retention secondary to herpes simplex meningitis . we report a case of acute urinary retention in a 24-year-old man with herpes simplex meningitis without genital lesions . since the differential diagnosis in young patients who present with acute urinary retention also includes multiple sclerosis , lumbosacral disk herniation , rheumatological disorders and drug intoxication , a thorough history and careful neurological examination are of paramount importance in distinguishing these syndromes . as part of a directed neurological evaluation prompt performance of lumbar puncture is indicated ; a lymphocytic pleocytosis is suggestive of herpetic meningitis . culture of herpes simplex virus from the cerebrospinal fluid should be attempted . we recommend conservative management only , typically with intermittent catheterization , since bladder function usually normalizes within 10 to 14 days . 
acute and chronic bioeffects of single and multiple doses of piezoelectric shockwaves ( edap lt. 01 ) . piezoelectric second generation lithotriptors are an established means of administering extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy ( eswl ) enabling treatment to be performed without anaesthesia or analgesia , but higher shockwave doses and multiple or staged treatment are frequently required . the bioeffects of this modality of eswl , therefore , require further assessment . seven experimental groups of adult male rabbits were treated using the edap lt. 01 in order to determine the acute and chronic bioeffects of clinical dose , excess dose , divided excess dose , high frequency and multiple treatment ( x10 ) piezoelectric shockwaves ( psw ) . renal function was measured before and after treatment using mercaptoacetyltriglycine ( mag 3 ) scans . gross and histological morphological changes were assessed at one and 30 days following application of psw . application of single clinical dose psw was not associated with any significant functional or morphological renal injury . excess dose psw caused transient gross renal contusion , which resolved in the majority of animals with no persistent microscopic abnormality . divided excess dose psw resulted in no gross or microscopic damage . high frequency psw was associated with mild histological abnormality . multiple psw treatments caused small discrete fibrotic lesions in all cases , without any change in renal function . 
dietary intake in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , patients with aids-related complex , and serologically positive human immunodeficiency virus patients : correlations with nutritional status . one of the major clinical manifestations of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and aids-related complex ( arc ) is the development of cachexia . this most likely results from a multifactorial interplay of poor diet , malabsorption , and altered metabolism . to assess the potential role of nutrient intake in the development or persistence of malnutrition , a detailed analysis was performed of a 72-hr diet record in clinically stable patients with aids ( n = 18 ) , arc ( n = 12 ) and in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) seropositive controls without significant manifestations of disease ( n = 13 ) . total calorie intake was 39.1 + / - 13.2 kcal/kg/day in aids patients vs 34.6 + / - 7.8 kcal/kg/day in arc patients or 31.9 + / - 17.7 kcal/kg/day in hiv seropositive cases ( all p = ns ) . likewise , mean protein intakes were similar among the groups and exceeded recommended daily dietary allowance ( rda ) guidelines . the mean body weight changes from the inception of illness were -11 + / - 1 % in aids , -6 + / - 7 % in arc , vs +3 + / - 2 % in hiv-seropositive-only cases ( p less than 0.05 vs aids and arc ) . dietary vitamin and mineral analysis revealed that 88 % of aids , 88 % of hiv seropositive , and 89 % of arc patients were ingesting less than 50 % rda for at least one nutrient . the mean number of deficiencies per patient was 1.8 + / - 1.3 in aids , 3.8 + / - 3.5 in arc , and 2.9 + / - 2.5 in hiv-seropositive-only cases ( p less than 0.05 aids vs arc ) . there were no significant correlations between specific anthropometric measurements and dietary intakes of protein or fat . 
follicular thyroid cancer treated at the mayo clinic , 1946 through 1970 : initial manifestations , pathologic findings , therapy , and outcome we retrospectively analyzed the outcome of all patients who received their primary treatment for follicular thyroid cancer at the mayo clinic between 1946 and 1970 . the diagnosis was confirmed by reexamination of preserved tissue specimens . the 57 female and 43 male patients ( mean age , 53 years ) underwent follow-up for a maximum of 32 years ( mean , 17.4 years ) . all patients were treated surgically , and total removal of primary tumor was thought to have been accomplished in all but three . only 2 of the 88 patients without distant metastatic lesions at the time of initial diagnosis underwent ablation of the thyroid remnant . at the conclusion of the study , 52 patients had died , thyroid cancer being the cause of death in 19 . on the basis of univariate survival analysis , age more than 50 years , tumor size that exceeded 3.9 cm , higher tumor grade , presence of marked vascular invasion , adjacent tissue invasion , and distant metastatic involvement at the time of initial diagnosis were associated with increased cancer mortality . multivariate analysis ( by cox proportional hazards model ) , however , identified only age greater than 50 years , marked vascular invasion , and metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis to be independent predictors of follicular thyroid cancer-related mortality . patients with two or more of these predictors were classified as being high risk . these patients had 5 - and 20-year survival rates of 47 % and 8 % , respectively ; the corresponding survival data for the low-risk group were 99 % at 5 years and 86 % at 20 years . the identification of these risk groups may facilitate a more rational approach to treatment of follicular thyroid cancer . 
a useful technique for measurement of back strength in osteoporotic and elderly patients . improvement of back extensor strength ( bes ) can be used as a therapeutic method for patients with chronic back pain and osteoporosis . the method of evaluation must be reliable and accurate without compromising the condition of the patient . we report the development of a back isometric dynamometer ( bid-2000 ) designed specifically by two of us to address these concerns in elderly patients with osteopenia or osteoporosis . as the demographics of the general population change , increasing numbers of patients will need the type of monitoring that the bid-2000 provides . aging has been shown to cause a reduction in the number of functional muscle motor units . to examine this effect on bes , we tested 50 normal , healthy women who were 30 to 79 years old . proper testing of bes in patients with fragile vertebrae should include isometric measurement in the prone position , maneuverability of the device to allow comfortable positioning of the patient , and simplicity of technique to minimize repetitious performance of maximal contraction . the bid-2000 incorporates each of these features and also provides meaningful results inexpensively . the device offers a safe , reliable ( coefficient of variation = 2.33 % ) , and valid ( p = 0.001 ) method of evaluation . the results of our study demonstrated moderate , steady reduction of bes with increasing age and with each successive decade . 
coronary artery bypass operation in dialysis patients . to analyze the short - and long-term morbidity and mortality among maintenance dialysis patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass operations , we identified 25 such patients at the mayo clinic and three recently published large single-center studies that provided sufficient detail for meaningful comparison . two independent observers reviewed the new information with regard to pertinent historical , clinical , and laboratory data . the perioperative mortality was 20 % . among the perioperative survivors , 1 - and 2-year survival rates were 95 % and 77 % , respectively . the 3-year actuarial survival was 70 % . uniformly , the symptoms diminished , and the need for antianginal medication was decreased . in the three other large published series , the perioperative mortality ranged from 3 to 20 % , and coronary artery bypass performed earlier after the onset of the symptoms seemed to result in a lower perioperative mortality . we conclude that elective coronary artery bypass in dialysis patients is associated with acceptable short-term morbidity and mortality and effective relief of symptoms . surgically treated patients may have a survival advantage . thus , we advocate aggressive early investigation and surgical treatment of these patients . 
paraneoplastic brachial plexopathy in a patient with hodgkin 's disease . we describe a case of inflammatory brachial plexopathy that occurred in the context of a mild , diffuse sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy associated with hodgkin 's disease . clinical , electrophysiologic , and pathologic studies helped distinguish this disorder from other causes of brachial plexopathy in patients with cancer . treatment with corticosteroids seemed beneficial in this patient . we suggest that this may be another type of paraneoplastic condition associated with hodgkin 's disease . 
mortality in hereditary antithrombin-iii deficiency -- 1830 to 1989 to determine whether antithrombin-iii ( at-iii ) deficiency leads to an excess mortality , we studied 171 individuals from ten families with a proven hereditary deficiency . 73 were classified as certainly deficient either by direct measurement of at-iii concentration or by mendelian inheritance patterns . 98 individuals had a high probability ( 0.5 ) of deficiency . the 64 deaths recorded did not exceed those expected for the general population adjusted for age , sex , and calendar period . we suggest that a policy of prophylactic anticoagulation for patients with at-iii deficiency can not be recommended . 
association of escherichia coli hep-2 adherence patterns with type and duration of diarrhoea . 373 ( 59 % ) out of 636 faecal specimens obtained during the first 2 years of life of 72 mexican children yielded adherent escherichia coli ( hep-2 cells ) . strains with localised adherence were significantly associated with acute non-bloody diarrhoea , whereas strains with aggregative adherence were significantly associated with persistent diarrhoea . half the strains with localised adherence were not enteropathogenic e coli serotypes nor did they hybridise with an enteropathogenic e coli adherence factor dna probe . all strains with localised adherence gave a positive fluorescent actin staining ( fas ) assay , irrespective of serotype . one-third of children colonised by aggregative strains had bloody diarrhoea . isolation of strains with diffuse adherence was not related to type or duration of diarrhoea but was generally associated with isolation of another pathogenic organism . 
diagnostic relevance of clonal cytogenetic aberrations in malignant soft-tissue tumors . background . malignant soft-tissue tumors often present substantial diagnostic challenges . chromosome aberrations that might be diagnostic have been identified in some types of soft-tissue tumors , but the overall frequency and diagnostic relevance of these aberrations have not been established . methods . we attempted to determine the karyotypes of a series of 62 consecutive , unselected malignant spindle-cell or small round-cell soft-tissue tumors ( from 46 adults and 16 children ) after direct harvesting of cells or short-term culture . all tumors were examined independently by immunohistochemical staining in addition to routine light-microscopical evaluation , and all but two tumors were examined by electron microscopy . results . metaphases were obtained from 61 of the 62 tumors , and clonal chromosome aberrations were identified in 55 ( 89 percent ) . in the six tumors that yielded metaphases but lacked apparent clonal aberrations , the normal metaphases were found to originate from non-neoplastic stromal elements within the tumor specimens . thus , all tumors in which karyotyping was successful contained clonal chromosome aberrations . forty of 62 tumors ( 65 percent ) contained clonal chromosome aberrations that either suggested or confirmed a specific diagnosis ; in 15 of these tumors ( 24 percent of all tumors ) , the aberrations were important in establishing the final diagnosis . cytogenetic analyses were particularly informative about small round-cell tumors from children : 8 of 14 round-cell tumors contained diagnostically important chromosome aberrations . using the combined approaches of light and electron microscopy , immunohistochemistry , and cytogenetics , we established an unambiguous diagnosis for 60 of 62 tumors . conclusions . cytogenetic analyses reveal clonal chromosome aberrations in virtually all malignant soft-tissue tumors . these clonal chromosome aberrations , particularly in small round-cell tumors in children , often have diagnostic relevance . 
a controlled trial comparing vidarabine with acyclovir in neonatal herpes simplex virus infection . infectious diseases collaborative antiviral study group . background . despite the use of vidarabine , herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) infection in neonates continues to be a disease of high morbidity and mortality . we undertook a controlled trial comparing vidarabine with acyclovir for the treatment of neonatal hsv infection . methods . babies less than one month of age with virologically confirmed hsv infection were randomly and blindly assigned to receive either intravenous vidarabine ( 30 mg per kilogram of body weight per day ; n = 95 ) or acyclovir ( 30 mg per kilogram per day ; n = 107 ) for 10 days . actuarial rates of mortality and morbidity among the survivors after one year were compared overall and according to the extent of the disease at entry into the study ( infection confined to the skin , eyes , or mouth ; encephalitis ; or disseminated disease ) . results . after adjustment for differences between groups in the extent of disease , there was no difference between vidarabine and acyclovir in either morbidity ( p = 0.83 ) or mortality ( p = 0.27 ) . none of the 85 babies with disease confined to the skin , eyes , or mouth died . of the 31 babies in this group who were treated with vidarabine and followed for a year , 88 percent ( 22 of 25 ) were judged to be developing normally after one year , as compared with 98 percent ( 45 of 46 ) of the 54 treated with acyclovir ( 95 percent confidence interval for the difference , -4 to 24 ) . for the 71 babies with encephalitis , mortality was 14 percent with vidarabine ( 5 of 36 ) and with acyclovir ( 5 of 35 ) ; of the survivors , 43 percent ( 13 of 30 ) and 29 percent ( 8 of 28 ) , respectively , were developing normally after one year ( 95 percent confidence interval for the difference , -11 to 39 ) . for the 46 babies with disseminated disease , mortality was 50 percent ( 14 of 28 ) with vidarabine and 61 percent ( 11 of 18 ) with acyclovir ( 95 percent confidence interval for the difference , -20 to 40 ) ; of the survivors , 58 percent ( 7 of 12 ) and 60 percent ( 3 of 5 ) , respectively , were judged to be developing normally after one year ( 95 percent confidence interval for the difference , -40 to 50 ) . both medications were without serious toxic effects . conclusions . in this multicenter , randomized , blinded study there were no differences in outcome between vidarabine and acyclovir in the treatment of neonatal hsv infection . the study lacked statistical power to determine whether there were sizable differences within the subgroups of those with localized hsv , encephalitis , or disseminated disease . 
syncytial giant-cell hepatitis . sporadic hepatitis with distinctive pathological features , a severe clinical course , and paramyxoviral features . background and methods . we describe a new form of hepatitis , occurring in 10 patients over a period of six years , characterized clinically by manifestations of severe hepatitis , histologically by large syncytial giant hepatocytes , and ultrastructurally by intracytoplasmic structures consistent with paramyxoviral nucleocapsids . results . the patients ranged in age from 5 months to 41 years . the tentative clinical diagnosis before biopsy was non-a , non-b hepatitis in five patients and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis in the others . five patients underwent liver transplantation ; the others died . the diagnosis of syncytial giant-cell hepatitis was established pathologically . the liver cords were replaced in all 10 patients by syncytial giant cells with up to 30 nuclei . in 8 of the 10 the cytoplasm contained pleomorphic particles of 150 to 250 microns , filamentous strands , and particles of 14 to 17 nm with peripherally disposed spikes resembling paramyxoviral nucleocapsids . structures resembling degenerated forms were found in the other two patients . one of two chimpanzees injected with a liver homogenate from the index patient had an increase in the titer of paramyxoviral antibodies , probably an anamnestic reaction to previous paramyxoviral infection , suggesting that a paramyxoviral antigen but not viable virus was present in the liver homogenate . conclusions . although further virologic studies will be required for precise classification , we believe that paramyxoviruses should be considered in patients with severe sporadic hepatitis . 
elevation of the petrous bone caused by hyperplasia of the occipital bone presenting as hemifacial spasm : diagnostic values of magnetic resonance imaging and three-dimensional computed tomographic images in a bone anomaly . a case of elevation of the petrous bone due to hyperplasia of the occipital bone presenting as hemifacial spasm is reported . a 44-year-old man sought treatment for twitching of the buccal muscles on the right side that progressed rapidly in severity within 2 weeks of the onset . the anatomical details of the petrous and occipital bones were delineated clearly by computed tomographic scans of a bone window level . details of the brain stem were shown by magnetic resonance images . the bone anomaly was displayed more realistically by three-dimensional computed tomographic reconstructions . the faithful representation of structures with these radiological studies should be mandatory , to prepare the surgical planning of such a complicated bone anomaly . 
intracranial hemorrhage from aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations during pregnancy and the puerperium . intracranial hemorrhage ( ich ) from an intracranial aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation is a grave complication of pregnancy and is responsible for 5 to 12 % of all maternal deaths . we critically analyzed 154 cases of verified ich during pregnancy from an identified intracranial lesion , including 2 patients treated at our institution and 152 cases previously reported in the literature in english . aneurysms were responsible for ich in 77 % of patients , and arteriovenous malformations in 23 % . hemorrhage occurred antepartum in 92 % of patients and postpartum in 8 % . women with angiomatous hemorrhage were younger than those with aneurysmal hemorrhage ; however , in contrast to previous reports , we found no differences between angiomatous and aneurysmal hemorrhage with respect to parity or gestational age at the time of the initial hemorrhage . hypertension and/or albuminuria were present at some time during the pregnancy in 34 % of patients with documentation , which sometimes made it difficult to differentiate angiomatous or aneurysmal ich from that associated with eclampsia . in a logistic regression analysis , surgical management of aneurysms , but not arteriovenous malformations , was associated with significantly lower maternal and fetal mortality , independent of other covariants . for those patients with a lesion not operated on , cesarean delivery afforded no better maternal or fetal outcome than did vaginal delivery . we conclude that the decision to operate after ich during pregnancy should be based upon neurosurgical principles , whereas the method of delivery should be based upon obstetrical considerations . the perioperative and anesthetic management of the pregnant patient with a neurosurgical complication is discussed . 
pregnancy and the risk of hemorrhage from cerebral arteriovenous malformations . we conducted a retrospective analysis of 451 women with an arteriovenous malformation ( avm ) of the brain to determine whether pregnancy is a risk factor for cerebral hemorrhages . a total of 540 pregnancies occurred among our patient population , resulting in 438 live births and 102 abortions . there were 17 pregnancies complicated by a cerebral hemorrhage . the hemorrhage rate during pregnancy for women with an unruptured avm was 0.035 + / - 0.005 per person-year . the hemorrhage rate for nonpregnant women of childbearing age with an unruptured avm was 0.031 + / - 0.002 per person-year . pregnancy did not increase significantly the rate of first cerebral hemorrhage from an avm ( p = 0.35 ) . we found that women with an avm face a 3.5 % risk of hemorrhage during pregnancy . pregnancy is not a risk factor for hemorrhage in women without a previous hemorrhage . this conclusion assumes no selection bias exists in our study population ; a bias would be introduced if the risk of fatal outcome after a hemorrhage were greater in pregnant women than in nonpregnant women . 
saccular aneurysms of the distal anterior cerebral artery . we report a series of 42 consecutive patients with aneurysms of the distal anterior cerebral artery ( aca ) . of these , 36 patients had one aneurysm , 5 had two aneurysms , and one had three aneurysms . thirty patients had a ruptured distal aca aneurysm ; among these patients , the size of the aneurysm was less than 5 mm in diameter in 20 , 6 to 10 mm in 7 , and larger than 11 mm in 3 . eighteen patients ( 42.9 % ) had multiple aneurysms , and distal aca aneurysms were responsible for a subarachnoid hemorrhage in 10 . thirty-four patients underwent direct surgery , and 30 of these had excellent outcomes 3 months after surgery . the treatment of patients with distal aca aneurysms is often technically difficult , because of their broad neck configuration and the coexistence of other aneurysms . nevertheless , the present study emphasizes that distal aca aneurysms tend to bleed , irrespective of their size , and that excellent outcomes are obtainable by direct surgery . 
effects of repeated temporary clipping of the middle cerebral artery on pial arterial diameter , regional cerebral blood flow , and brain structure in cats . temporary clipping of the major arterial trunk is an important maneuver to control excessive unexpected bleeding in neurosurgical operations ; however , repeated temporary clipping can give rise to severe neurological deficits after surgery . the present study was performed to confirm and explain these clinical findings . initially , a single 20-minute or 1-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery was performed in each of 5 cats . pial arterial diameter was determined by video imaging , regional cerebral blood flow was measured by autoradiography , and cerebral edema and infarction were observed . in the 20-minute occlusion group , no abnormal changes were found 5 hours after recirculation . in the 1-hour occlusion group , pial arteries were dilated by 45 % , and regional cerebral blood flow increased to more than twice the resting cortical values . the extent of cerebral edema was 41.2 + / - 7.5 % ( se ) and infarction was 34.5 + / - 9.5 % ( se ) of the hemisphere . in the second experiment , three 20-minute occlusions of the middle cerebral artery in a 1-hour interval were performed in 20 cats . in 10 of them , thiopental ( 40 mg/kg ) was used to protect the brain . in the group without barbiturate treatment , pial arteries were dilated by 40 % at the end of experiment , regional cerebral blood flow decreased to about 70 % compared with single 20-minute occlusion , cerebral edema was 19.5 + / - 8.1 % ( se ) , and infarction was 8.1 + / - 3.7 % ( se ) of the hemisphere . in the treated group , these were only trivial changes . the effect of repeated clipping may cumulatively cause brain damage , and barbiturates should be used whenever repeated clipping is necessary . 
accelerated non-muscle contraction after subarachnoid hemorrhage : cerebrospinal fluid testing in a culture model . the cause of chronic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage has been studied intensively , but it is still controversial whether the observable luminal narrowing should be attributed to the contraction of vascular smooth muscle cells or whether it results from some organic change in the wall . a proliferation of myointimal cells , accompanied by increased deposition of collagen , as well as myonecrosis , have been frequently observed several days after aneurysm rupture . studies from our laboratory showed that these myointimal cells had characteristics identical to myofibroblasts . in this study , we quantitatively and morphologically examined the effect of cerebrospinal fluid on the ability of myofibroblasts to alter collagen matrices using an in vitro model . myofibroblasts contract the collagen matrix by rearranging or compacting the framework of collagen fibers . cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients with recently ruptured aneurysms significantly accelerated lattice contraction , especially when the patient developed symptomatic vasospasm . this study suggests that myofibroblasts in the spastic artery can produce a contractile force that contributes to chronic vasospasm , tightening the proliferated collagen . some unknown agent present in bloody cerebrospinal fluid accelerates the rearrangement of the collagen lattice by myofibroblasts , both of which have , until now , been considered non-contractile components . 
ventriculoperitoneal shunt malfunction during pregnancy . many women with cerebrospinal fluid shunts are now reaching reproductive age . shunt malfunction may occur during pregnancy , and management requires a well-planned , combined neurosurgical and obstetrical approach . we present a case of ventriculoperitoneal shunt obstruction manifesting during the third trimester managed successfully in a conservative fashion . the literature on ventriculoperitoneal shunt malfunction during pregnancy is reviewed . 
delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression . we report two unusual cases of delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression of structures within the cerebellopontine angle . in the first case , the patient noted a unilateral hearing loss 3 weeks after undergoing vascular decompression of the trigeminal nerve for tic douloureux . this gradually improved over an 18-month period . in the second case , the patient awoke on the 4th day after vascular decompression of the facial nerve for hemifacial spasm with a bilateral hearing loss that has remained unchanged after the onset . these are examples of delayed acoustic dysfunction occurring with a shift in surgically freed vessels and may have been induced by newly directed neurovascular compression or distortion . 
spontaneous rupture of liver during pregnancy : current therapy . spontaneous hepatic rupture secondary to severe pregnancy-induced hypertension is associated with a high rate of maternal and fetal mortality . numerous types of surgical management have been described , but a uniform surgical approach has not been accepted . the purpose of this review was to examine modes of surgical therapy reported in the literature since 1976 , as well as the 11-year experience at our institution . twenty-eight cases were extracted from the literature and seven more were identified at our institution . the incidence in our population was one per 45,145 live births . among 27 cases managed by packing and drainage , an 82 % overall survival was achieved , whereas only 25 % of eight patients undergoing hepatic lobectomy survived ( p = .006 ) . hepatic hemorrhage with persistent hypotension unresponsive to blood products should be managed by evacuating the hematoma , packing the damaged liver , and draining the operative site . more aggressive surgical techniques , such as hepatic artery ligation or hepatic lobectomy , should be reserved for refractory cases . 
serial ca 125 levels during chemotherapy for metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of serial ca 125 in monitoring disease status during chemotherapy in women with metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer . ca 125 was measured in 21 women receiving cisplatin , etoposide , and adriamycin for a total of 275 courses of chemotherapy ( median eight ) . eight of ten patients had elevated pre-therapy ca 125 levels ( median 233 u/ml ) . ca 125 became and/or remained negative in all 20 women with responding or stable disease and was elevated in all nine patients who relapsed . the median level at the time of relapse was 56 u/ml . levels were elevated before clinical relapse in five of nine patients ( 56 % ) . serial ca 125 may aid in the management of women receiving chemotherapy for advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer . 
upper genital tract isolates at delivery as predictors of post-cesarean infections among women receiving antibiotic prophylaxis . the introduction of antibiotic prophylaxis for cesarean delivery has decreased the risk of postpartum endometritis and wound infection , but factors that contribute to prophylaxis failure are not understood . to determine factors that might contribute to postpartum infections following antibiotic prophylaxis , we cultured amniotic fluid , decidua , and chorioamniotic membrane specimens for anaerobic and facultative bacteria and for genital mycoplasmas at cesarean delivery . women were assessed daily for the development of infections , and if endometritis developed , a protected endometrial culture was obtained . postpartum endometritis developed in 16 and wound infection in four of 102 women . infection rates were similar for women receiving cefotetan ( n = 50 ) or cefoxitin ( n = 52 ) for prophylaxis . the isolation of group b streptococcus ( p less than .001 ) or enterococcus faecalis ( p = .03 ) from the upper genital tract at delivery was significantly associated with postpartum endometritis . antibiotic-resistant organisms ( other than enterococci ) were recovered uncommonly at delivery or with postpartum infections . group b streptococcus was susceptible to the prophylactic agents used , suggesting that virulence factors other than antibiotic resistance are important for the development of postpartum endometritis . group b streptococcus , e faecalis , and bacteria associated with bacterial vaginosis were recovered from the endometrium at the time of postpartum endometritis . 
peritoneal closure or non-closure at cesarean . the value of peritoneal closure at the time of cesarean birth was evaluated prospectively . two hundred forty-eight women undergoing low transverse cesarean through a pfannenstiel skin incision were assigned to one of two groups : peritoneum open ( n = 127 ) or peritoneum closed ( n = 121 ) . the mean ( + / - sem ) surgical time in the open group ( 48.1 + / - 1.2 minutes ) was significantly less than for the closed group ( 53.2 + / - 1.4 minutes ) ( p less than .005 ) . there were no postoperative differences between the groups in the incidence of wound infection , dehiscence , endometritis , ileus , and length of hospital stay . our study suggests that leaving the parietal peritoneum unsutured is an acceptable way to manage patients at cesarean delivery . 
calmodulins with deletions in the central helix functionally replace the native protein in yeast cells . deletion of glu-84 , glu-83 and glu-84 , or ser-glu-glu-glu ( residues 81-84 ) from the central helix of mammalian calmodulin is known to result in a 5-7 times decrease in its apparent in vitro affinities for three calmodulin-dependent enzymes . however , based on in vitro experiments , it is difficult to estimate how these deletions might affect in vivo cellular function . the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae , which requires calmodulin for growth , provides an excellent system to evaluate these deletion proteins in vivo . based on its ability to restore normal growth characteristics to yeast cells , mammalian calmodulin is functionally identical to the yeast protein ; herein we evaluate the effect of deleting residues 84 , 83 and 84 , or 81-84 from the central helix . sequences encoding the deletion proteins and an unaltered control sequence were introduced by means of a yeast shuttle vector and were expressed under control of the yeast calmodulin promoter . the deletion and control calmodulins are produced at levels similar to that observed for the yeast protein , and they completely restore normal growth characteristics . this result suggests that the regions deleted from the central helix are not critical for activation of any yeast calmodulin target normally required for cell growth or division . it is likely that there are twisting and shortening motions associated with the deletions from the central helix that alter significantly the spatial relationship between the two lobes of calmodulin . the abilities of the deletion calmodulins to restore completely normal growth characteristics to yeast cells suggest that the lobes of all the deletion proteins can still be appropriately positioned in calmodulin-target complexes . this is consistent with the hypothesis that the central helix of calmodulin is analogous to a flexible tether rather than to a rigid connector between the two lobes of the molecule . 
progression of human papillomavirus type 18-immortalized human keratinocytes to a malignant phenotype . we have developed a model system for progression of human epithelial cells to malignancy , using a human papillomavirus type 18 ( hpv-18 ) - immortalized human keratinocyte cell line . cells of cell line fep-1811 were nontumorigenic in athymic mice through at least 12 passages in culture , but after 32 passages were weakly tumorigenic , producing tumors that regressed . after 62 passages they produced invasive squamous cell carcinomas that grew progressively . the progression to malignancy was associated with an increase in the efficiency of forming colonies in soft agar and with altered differentiation properties . in an organotypic culture system , fep-1811 cells at passages 12 and 32 exhibited features typical of premalignant intraepithelial neoplasia in vivo , and cells at passage 68 exhibited features consistent with squamous cell carcinomas . no change in copy number of the transfected hpv-18 genome or in the level of expression of the viral transforming gene products e6 and e7 was detected between tumorigenic and nontumorigenic cells . cytogenetic analysis of cells at early , middle , and late passage levels and cells cultured from tumors revealed that several chromosomal abnormalities segregated with the tumorigenic cell populations . 
the noncatalytic src homology region 2 segment of abl tyrosine kinase binds to tyrosine-phosphorylated cellular proteins with high affinity . several proteins implicated in the regulation of cell proliferation contain a common noncatalytic domain , src homology region 2 ( sh2 ) . we have used the bacterially expressed sh2 domain of abl protein-tyrosine kinase to evaluate the ability of this domain to bind to cellular proteins . ablsh2 specifically bound to a number of tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins from cells transformed by tyrosine kinase oncogenes in a filter-binding assay and to a subset of those proteins in solution . the sh2 probe bound almost exclusively to tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins , and binding was eliminated by dephosphorylation of cell proteins . free phosphotyrosine could partially disrupt sh2 binding , suggesting that phosphotyrosine is directly involved in the binding interaction . these results demonstrate that an sh2 domain is sufficient to confer direct , high-affinity phosphotyrosine-dependent binding to proteins and suggest a general role for sh2 domains in cellular signaling pathways . 
nasal augmentation with split calvarial grafts in orientals . this study reports on my experience with autogenous split calvarial grafts in nasal augmentation in 62 orientals . in 78 percent of patients , the procedure was performed under local anesthesia in an outpatient setting . total operating time for harvesting of split calvarial grafts ranged from 20 to 55 minutes , with a mean of 32 minutes . patients ranged in age from 16 to 48 years , with a mean of 27 years . follow-up was from 6 months to 8 years , with an average of 3.1 years . intraoperative discomfort was uniformly low and well tolerated when local anesthesia was used . the complication rate was 8.0 percent , with three cases of minor seroma-hematoma formation at the bone-graft donor site . these were treated with aspiration . there were two recipient-site complications , with one case of complete bone resorption that occurred in a densely fibrotic nose with preexisting septal perforation and a case of overcorrection that was successfully rasped 1 year later . because of their easy accessibility beneath the scalp , split calvarial grafts to the nose are useful in various types of nasal augmentation , and the technique is offered as a practical alternative to the use of alloplastic materials . 
botulinum a toxin for the treatment of adult-onset spasmodic torticollis . thirty-five patients with adult-onset idiopathic torticollis were treated by local injections of botulinum a toxin into dystonic cervical muscles . substantial improvement with respect to reduction and elimination of pain was found in 81 percent , improvement in posture deformity and involuntary spasms in 70 percent , increased range of motion of the neck in 78 percent , reduction in visible sternocleidomastoid hypertrophy in 86 percent , and improvement in tremor in 65 percent . the syndrome was divided into four subtypes based on pattern of dystonic muscle groups involved in the dystonia , head and shoulder posture , and sternocleidomastoid muscle hypertrophy . injection strategy based on this subdivision is described . 
donor seropositivity and prednisolone therapy as risk factors for cytomegalovirus infection and disease in cyclosporin-treated renal allograft recipients . we attempted to assess the importance of blood transfusion , donor seropositivity , and prednisolone therapy as risk factors for cytomegalovirus infection in cyclosporin-treated renal allograft recipients . primary infection was diagnosed in 27 of 86 patients ( 31 per cent ) and recurrent infection in 27 of 79 patients ( 34 per cent ) . receipt of banked blood from unselected donors after transplantation did not increase the incidence of primary infection in the few transfused patients . kidney donor seropositivity and maintenance prednisolone in addition to cyclosporin were associated with increases in the incidence of primary or recurrent infection , respectively . cytomegalovirus infection was clinically mild . presumed bacterial pneumonias occurred in three patients with recurrent cytomegalovirus infection . the absence of severe cytomegalovirus disease probably reflected the minimal use of prednisolone . matching of seronegative donors with seronegative recipients seemed unjustifiable in cyclosporin-treated renal transplant patients . 
parathyroidectomy in chronic renal failure : a nine-year follow-up study . seventy-three patients with chronic renal failure who underwent parathyroidectomy between march 1978 and april 1987 were reviewed . thirty-four patients had undergone sub-total parathyroidectomy , and 39 patients had undergone total parathyroidectomy with parathyroid autograft into the forearm . eight patients showed persistent hyperparathyroidism requiring a second surgical procedure . in all other patients there was highly statistical improvement in parathyroid hormone , total calcium , ionized calcium , alkaline phosphatase and a significant reduction in calcium x phosphate product . histological evidence of osteitis fibrosa was present in 21 of 22 patients before surgery . postoperatively , four showed complete resolution and improvement . three patients developed histological evidence of osteomalacia during the study period . only four of the 39 patients who underwent total parathyroidectomy with autograft had true recurrent hyperparathyroidism and only two of the 34 patients who underwent sub-total parathyroidectomy had recurrent disease , indicating that there is little to choose between the two techniques in the control of secondary hyperparathyroidism and its subsequent recurrence . in one patient with recurrence of hyperparathyroidism from a forearm parathyroid graft the histological picture was different from that of normal hyperplastic parathyroid tissue . although it is probable that abnormal parathyroid tissue had been implanted there was no evidence of invasive growth into the forearm muscle . the most striking feature of long term follow-up was the difference in calcium x phosphate product in patients in whom vascular calcification increased compared to those patients with no change or regression of calcification . mean calcium phosphate product in those patients with progressive vascular calcification was 4.93 for small and medium size vessels and 5.38 for large vessels compared to 4.10 for small and medium vessels and 4.09 for large vessels . in the former case the serum phosphate was 2.00 and 2.17 as compared to 1.75 or 1.73 , suggesting that the aim in patients with end stage renal failure maintained by dialysis should be to control the serum phosphate concentration to 1.8 mmol or less and the calcium x phosphate product to less than 4.2 . 
abdominal wall considerations and complications in reoperative surgery . the abdominal wall is the source of significant problems for patients undergoing multiple abdominal operations . the orientation of sequential incisions must be carefully considered to avoid compromise of the abdominal wall blood supply , which may result in either acute ( dehiscence ) or delayed ( ventral hernia ) complications . infections are the most serious problems of the multiply operated on abdominal wall . these complications may range from simple wound infection to necrotizing fasciitis . management may require only simple drainage of the infection or may entail extensive debridement for the necrotizing processes . regardless of the cause , the multiply operated on abdominal wall may require reconstruction because of lost fascia . polypropylene mesh can be employed safely and effectively for this purpose . 
reoperation for biliary strictures . benign bile duct strictures most often follow intraoperative injury not recognized until later . the ideal reconstruction entails a mucosa-to-mucosa anastomosis without tension , usually with a stent tube to maintain patency in the immediate postoperative period . the mortality rate for reoperation and bile duct reconstruction in patients who are not cirrhotic is approximately 2 % , and success rates average 85 % . prevention of operative injuries by the use of cholangiography , careful dissection , and removal of the gallbladder from the fundus downward is the best treatment . 
variceal rebleeding after portosystemic shunting . strategies and solutions to a vexing problem . the purpose of this review was to discuss an approach to the treatment of recurrent bleeding from esophageal or gastric varices after portosystemic shunt . from our own clinical experience , as well as that of others , it appears that re-establishment of portal decompression should offer the best chance at long-term survival . luckily , innovations in angiographic technique have allowed attainment of this goal without the inordinate risk of an operative procedure . however , not all patients ' situations will be amenable to such treatment . for some of them , operative decompression of the portal venous system can be carried out in an anatomic area previously untouched . for those patients in whom no decompression is possible , direct endoscopic treatment of the varices will offer an alternative , albeit temporizing , approach . 
repeat operation for failure of antireflux procedures . the majority of patients who receive modern antireflux operations obtain substantial long-term relief of their symptoms . about 10 % to 15 % will have persistent or recurrent problems , some severe enough to warrant reoperation for correction . with careful symptom review , barium study , endoscopy , and manometry , the mechanism of failure becomes evident , and remedial surgical treatment may proceed . the results at reoperation are not as good as those of the primary procedure , which emphasizes the need for proper diagnosis and choice of procedure and for reliable execution of technique at the initial treatment . 
reoperation for small intestinal obstruction . today , intestinal adhesions represent the most frequent etiology for complete or partial intestinal obstruction . although partial obstruction can be treated nonoperatively with a considerable likelihood of success , intestinal strangulation can not uniformly be predicted or prevented . complete intestinal obstruction is associated with a significant incidence of strangulation if not treated by a vigorous surgical approach . consequently , complete intestinal obstruction secondary to adhesions is still a surgical disease . attempts at control of the adhesion process include mechanical methods to prevent subsequent obstruction and chemical methods to prevent the adhesion process itself . the invasive mechanical methods appear dated . a variety of agents have been used either systemically or in the peritoneal cavity to prevent the establishment of intra-abdominal adhesions . agents that do not contribute to subsequent morbidity or impede the native host defense mechanisms should be utilized . high-molecular-weight dextran and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents show some promise of being both safe and effective . as is frequently the case , the bottom line in preventing and treating intra-abdominal adhesions is appropriate surgical technique . intestinal adhesions can be related clearly to leaving damaged , devitalized , or ischemic tissue in the peritoneal cavity or to excessive roughness in handling of tissues . steps such as avoidance of excessive suture material and unnecessary handling of the bowel will do much to prevent subsequent adhesion generation . likewise , the surgical lysis of intraperitoneal adhesions is frequently fraught with complications such as intra-abdominal abscess or postoperative incisional failure . this is again related to surgical technique and most directly to the use of blunt dissection to divide adhesions . knife dissection in the lysis of adhesions is recommended . this technique , combined with excellent intraoperative hemostasis , can be associated with a marked diminution in the incidence of postoperative fistulas and abscesses . 
reoperative versus conservative management for gastrointestinal fistulas . development of a fistula is a serious complication . it is necessary to identify its anatomic and pathologic features , as these can influence the outcome of treatment independent of the primary disease . electrolyte abnormalities should be addressed as volume deficits are being restored . sepsis , the most common cause of death in patients with fistulas , must be controlled , and the skin must be protected . reoperation and conservative management are not opposing forms of therapy but rather are complementary . 
reoperation for intra-abdominal abscess . reoperative procedures for patients with abscess and other septic complications remain among the most difficult management problems in general surgery . the diagnosis of intra-abdominal septic complications has been greatly enhanced within the last 10 years but remains imperfect and requires clinical judgment that transcends objective methods . surgical drainage remains the mainstay of care for patients with postoperative intraabdominal abscess . 
alkaline reflux gastritis . alkaline reflux gastritis and the symptoms associated with alkaline reflux gastritis have been reported in the medical literature since shortly after billroth successfully performed his first gastrectomy in the 1880s . the disease process is produced by , or at least is associated with , the reflux of alkaline secretions into the gastric remnant . although it occurs after any procedure that ablates the pylorus including pyloroplasty , it would appear to be most common after a billroth ii gastrojejunostomy . how the alkaline secretions cause the gastritis is still controversial . clearly , the most effective therapy is to reroute the secretions from the biliary tract , pancreas , and duodenum so that they will not reflux into the gastric remnant . this is most effectively accomplished by a roux-en-y gastrojejunostomy with the afferent limb measuring at least 18 inches ( 40 cm ) . the surgeon and the patient should be aware that the construction of such a gastric outlet channel is associated with delayed gastric emptying . the etiology of this impaired emptying is also controversial . if the patient has symptoms of dumping ( either early or late ) , these symptoms may also be abated using the roux limb . at least 40 % of patients will have gastric outlet obstruction . supportive therapy is appropriate in the majority of these patients . 
reoperation for recurrent peptic ulcer disease . the patient with recurrent peptic ulcer evidences failure of an initial operation to control the ulcer diathesis . a trial of aggressive medical therapy is warranted in elective presentations and has a moderate chance of success . failing this , we believe that reoperation should be tailored to the patient 's physiologic status and previous operation ( table 5 ) . nevertheless , in most cases , we believe that the second operation should be the final operation and should consist of the procedure with the lowest recurrence rates . therefore , we believe that the assurance of an adequate antrectomy and complete vagal section is the preferred procedure for most patients with recurrent peptic ulcer . 
treatment of renal cell carcinoma by extracorporeal partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic vascular anastomosis . a patient with large left lower pole renal cell carcinoma in a solitary kidney is presented . the patient was treated by partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic arterial and venous anastomoses . the potential for reducing operative morbidity compared with autotransplantation to the iliac fossa is discussed . 
performance of cesarean section using absorbable staples . although stapling techniques have gained wide acceptance in general surgery , they are still not commonly used in obstetrics . u.s. surgical corporation has introduced a stapling device suitable for use in cesarean sections . the copolymer staples ( a blend of polylactic and polyglycolic acids ) maintain their tensile strength until healing occurs and absorb without producing granulation tissue . the benefits include minimal trauma to tissue and reduced operating time , blood loss and postoperative morbidity . from july 1988 to february 1989 , all patients undergoing low transverse cervical cesarean sections were randomized to either group 1 with the uterine incision performed in a routine manner or group 2 with the uterine incision cut and stapled using the stapler . the preoperative management , intraoperative technique and postoperative surveillance were similar for both groups . the uterine incision was assessed by pelvic sonography during the postpartum period . statistical analysis was performed using fisher 's exact test and chi-square analysis . both groups were comparable for age , race , parity , gestational age and primary diagnosis . the length of the operative procedure was significantly shorter ( p less than 0.05 ) in the stapled group . these patients also had a statistically significantly decreased incidence of uterine incisions and lacerations . all other parameters were not significantly different in the two groups . the stapled uterine incisions were visible by ultrasonography in more patients in the stapled group throughout the postpartum period than in the sutured group . thus , stapling of the uterine incision was an acceptable alternative to traditional suturing techniques and it was possible to visualize clearly these incisions during the postpartum period . 
emergency surgical treatment for nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract . endoscopic and biochemical data were collected prospectively from 1,530 patients admitted with nonvariceal bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract between september 1985 and june 1989 . therapeutic endoscopy was done for 93 patients who underwent emergency surgical treatment for bleeding , subsequently required in 29 patients with seven postoperative fatalities . in contrast , 31 ( 15.7 per cent ) of 198 patients ( mortality rate of 9.6 per cent at 30 days ) died in the hospital who had undergone emergency operation in whom therapeutic endoscopy had not been performed ; data for this latter group is now presented . at admission , a greater likelihood of emergency operation was associated with a systolic blood pressure of 100 millimeters of mercury and endoscopic stigmatas of recent hemorrhage ( esrh ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . rebleeding rates for the presence of fresh blood , active spurting and oozing hemorrhage or visible vessel in an ulcer base were 26.5 , 28.9 and 35.9 per cent , respectively . endoscopic stigmatas were thus associated with an increased risk of bleeding ( p less than 0.0001 ) and rebleeding led to a sixfold increase in the mortality rate . congestive cardiac failure , chronic obstructive airway disease , chronic renal failure and a history of previous malignant disease were each associated with postoperative mortality rates of more than 50 per cent . an increased risk of mortality after emergency operation was related to age ( p less than 0.0001 ) , preoperative ( p less than 0.002 ) and total ( p less than 0.0001 ) blood transfusion requirement . immediate operation after resuscitation and endoscopy was required in 87 patients ; 11 deaths ( hospital mortality rate of 12.7 per cent and 9.2 per cent at 30 days ) occurred in this group compared with 20 fatalities ( 18.0 per cent ) documented in 111 patients ( 9.9 per cent at 30 days ) who underwent surgical treatment for rebleeding . we conclude that age , concomitant medical illness and preoperative and total transfusion requirements are each related to outcome after emergency operations . such urgent intervention is best avoided if at all possible in patients with severe concomitant medical illness . 
incisional hernioplasty with mersilene . thirty large incisional abdominal hernias ( myoaponeurotic defects greater than 10 centimeters ) were successfully repaired by a technique of incisional hernioplasty which implants a large mersilene ( polyester fiber ) prosthesis in the space between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum . the prosthesis extends far beyond the borders of the myoaponeurotic defect , and is solidly held in place by intra-abdominal pressure and later by fibrous ingrowth . the prosthesis protects against recurrence in two ways . first , it prevents peritoneal eventration by adhering to the visceral sac and rendering it indistensible . second , the prosthesis unites and consolidates the abdominal wall . consequently , the procedure uniquely exploits the very force which caused the hernia to prevent a recurrence . a prosthesis of mersilene is essential for success because it is supple and elastic enough to conform freely to the curvatures of the visceral sac , has the necessary grainy texture to grip the peritoneum and prevent slippage and is reactive enough to induce a rapid fibroblastic response to ensure fixation . 
aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic factors and recovery of beta-lactamase producing bacteria from obstetric and gynecologic infection . specimens obtained from 736 patients with obstetric and gynecologic infections were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria . bacterial growth was present in 714 specimens . these included 53 specimens of infected fallopian tubes , 470 of infected endometrium , 94 of infected amniotic fluid , 57 of aspirates of cul-de-sacs in instances of pelvic inflammatory disease , 14 labial and vaginal abscesses and 26 of bartholyn 's cyst abscess . a total of 2,052 isolates ( 2.9 per specimen ) , 1,139 anaerobes ( 1.6 per specimen ) and 913 aerobic or facultative ( 1.3 per specimen ) were recovered . the most commonly isolated anaerobic bacteria was bacteroides species ( 566 isolates ) , which included bacteroides bivius ( 151 ) , bacteroides fragilis group ( 130 ) , bacteroides melaninogenicus group ( 110 ) and bacteroides ureolyticus ( 47 ) . others included an anaerobic gram-positive cocci ( 391 ) , clostridium species ( 48 ) and fusobacterium species ( 36 ) . the most frequently recovered aerobic and facultative bacteria were lactobacillus species ( 169 ) , escherichia coli ( 85 ) , neisseria gonorrhoeae ( 62 ) , staphylococcus aureus ( 59 ) and group b streptococcus ( 55 ) . three hundred and sixty-five ( 18 per cent ) of the isolates recovered from 276 ( 39 per cent ) patients were beta-lactamase producing organisms ( blpo ) ; 222 ( 61 per cent ) anaerobes and 143 ( 39 per cent ) aerobes or facultatives . the most common blpo were b. fragilis group , b. bivius , b. melaninogenicus , b. disiens , enterobacteriaceae and s. aureus . these data illustrate the polymicrobial nature and important role of blpo in obstetric and gynecologic infection . 
correlation of apache ii score , drainage technique and outcome in postoperative intra-abdominal abscess . the apache ii score was used to stratify retrospectively severity of illness in 91 patients postoperatively undergoing drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses . the method of initial abscess drainage ( percutaneous or operative ) was selected by the attending physician . the two groups of patients , those whose initial drainage was performed percutaneously versus operatively were similar with respect to age , sex , abscess location and , most importantly , severity of illness as assessed by the apache ii score calculated on the day of their abscess drainage . over-all , the mortality rate was 29 per cent ( 26 of 91 patients ) . only 1.7 per cent of the patients with an apache ii score of less than 15 died compared with 78 per cent when apache ii was equal to or more than 15 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . only 8 per cent of patients with apache ii equal to or more than 15 undergoing percutaneous drainage survived compared with 30 per cent of patients who underwent surgical drainage procedures . while chi-square analysis demonstrated independence between outcome and drainage technique , outcome was dependent upon severity of illness ( p less than 0.0005 ) . paradoxically , despite the attractiveness of a percutaneous technique for abscess drainage in the most ill patients , in this series , a better , although not statistically improved , chance for survival was noted with surgical treatment . we recommend that an objective severity scoring system be used whenever assessing results of treatment of intraabdominal infection and that surgical treatment not be avoided because the patient is considered to be too ill . 
risk for postoperative congestive heart failure . to identify predictors of postoperative congestive heart failure ( chf ) , a high-risk population , mainly hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective general operations , was studied . of the 254 patients , 6 per cent had postoperative chf . among patients with preoperative cardiac disease ( that is , previous myocardial infarction , valvular disease or chf ) , 17 per cent had postoperative chf ; in contrast with less than 1 per cent of those without cardiac disease ( p less than 0.001 ) . patients with diabetes were also at high risk ( 12 versus 2 per cent , p less than 0.005 ) , particularly those with cardiac disease . patients who had equal to or greater than 40 millimeters of mercury increases or decreases intraoperatively in mean arterial pressure in relation to preoperative baseline had increased postoperative failure rates ( p less than 0.02 ) . of note , postoperative failure rates were highest among patients with less than 500 milliliters per hour of net intake ( input and output ) ( p less than 0.03 ) . risk for postoperative chf was restricted to patients with preoperative symptomatic cardiac disease and was especially high if patients also had diabetes . intraoperative fluctuations in mean arterial pressure increased the probability of postoperative failure , while the intraoperative administration of higher net volumes of fluid was associated with decreased risk . 
when do optic disc edema and peripheral neuropathy constitute poetry ? [ clinical conference ] a patient with chronic , bilateral optic disc edema developed multiple systemic manifestations of poems syndrome ( polyneuropathy , organomegaly , endocrinopathy , m-protein , skin changes ) . a serum immunoelectrophoresis showed an abnormal serum igg lambda protein , and urine immunoelectrophoresis revealed a monoclonal lambda protein plus an igg lambda fragment . bone survey and mri scan revealed a sclerotic lesion of the first lumbar vertebra , and lymph node biopsy showed changes consistent with castleman 's disease . thus , his optic disc edema was the presenting feature of the poems syndrome and osteosclerotic myeloma . 
efficacy of induction therapy in cadaveric renal transplantation comparing rabbit antithymocyte serum and minnesota antilymphoblast globulin . from august 1986 to july 1989 , 98 patients receiving primary cadaveric kidney transplants received either rats ( n = 50 ) or malg ( n = 48 ) during the induction phase of a quadruple immunosuppressive protocol . patient groups were well matched . the duration of rats and malg treatment and the time of cya induction were equivalent . serum creatinine and rejection episodes up to 1 year were not statistically different . hematologic side effects resulted in dose reduction of malg in 42 % of patients without adverse rejection results . in the rats group , no dosage reductions were required . one-year patient survivals ( 96 % to 100 % ) , and 1-year graft survival ( 82 % to 85 % ) were not significantly different in the 2 groups . infectious complications were 30 % higher in the malg group and a significant factor in 2 deaths . monitoring of lymphocyte subsets revealed insignificant differences in the percent of decrease of each cell population between malg and rats groups during induction . 
thalidomide : treatment of severe recurrent aphthous stomatitis in patients with aids . an increasing number of aids patients have been noted to suffer severe recurrent aphthous stomatitis ( ras ) , a condition often associated with high morbidity that remains unresponsive to conventional therapeutic interventions . in two cases thalidomide was administered to successfully treat aids patients with ras . both patients experienced complete abatement of pain shortly after therapy was initiated . ulcerations that were present for months resolved after three or four weeks of thalidomide therapy without any adverse effects . thalidomide appears to be an effective agent for the treatment of severe ras unresponsive to traditional therapies . 
essential fatty acid sufficiency does not preclude fat-soluble-vitamin deficiency in short-bowel syndrome . patients with extensive small-bowel resection may experience malabsorption and nutrient deficiencies . we evaluated the ability to absorb fat and fat-soluble vitamins in a short-gut patient . for 18 wk after stopping intravenous lipid , while consuming a low-lactose , low-fat diet , he exhibited no clinical manifestations of essential fatty acid deficiency ( efad ) . serum 20:4 n-6 ( 20:4 omega-6 ) and 18:2 n-6 fatty acid concentrations were normal , whereas the concentration of 20:3 n-9 remained less than or equal to 0.1 % of total serum fatty acids . although serum vitamin a was normal , beta-carotene was undetectable despite oral supplementation . prothrombin time was elevated until parenteral vitamin k was given . this patient has fat absorption adequate to prevent efad but inadequate absorption of fat-soluble vitamins . in patients with short bowel , the requirements for parenteral lipids and fat-soluble vitamins should be determined independently . 
death by smothering and its investigation . this case report provides details from an extensive death investigation , the results of which led to the certification of suicidal manner of death by means of smothering in a pillow , without additional assistance from other persons or mechanical devices . this was the death of a chronically mentally ill person who was under currently approved professional treatment . major investigative aspects of this case were the death-scene observations of the body , elimination of the possibility of homicide , and the study and analysis of the subject 's psychiatric illness . reasons for the uncommonness of reported deaths in this category are discussed . 
suicidal ligature strangulation with an elastic band . an unusual case of self-strangulation with an elastic band is described . the victim was a young hispanic male with a complicated psychiatric history , including suicide attempts . mechanisms of strangulation and mechanical asphyxial death are discussed briefly . 
death notification . family notification in sudden , unexpected , and violent death is a major responsibility of law enforcement , medical examiner , and coroner offices . this report reviews and discusses the process and procedures utilized in death notification and provides suggestions to accomplish this difficult task more effectively . 
esophageal malignancies : is preoperative radiotherapy the way to go ? during the period 1969 to 1988 , 68 patients with esophageal malignancy were subjected to preoperative radiotherapy consisting of 30 gy over 3 weeks followed by esophagectomy after a wait of 2 weeks . sixty-two of 68 patients ( 91 % ) were followed up retrospectively ( 5-year survival rate , 17.2 % ; 10-year survival rate , 4.8 % ) . radiosensitivity of the tumor was graded by a radiation effect scoring method devised by us , and this was found to correlate with long-term prognosis ( p = 0.05 ) . radiotherapy " sterilized " malignant involvement of adventitia and draining lymph nodes in 8 patients and thereby converted " palliative " into potentially " curative " resections with a mean survival of 57.2 months in this group of patients . preoperative radiotherapy was found to increase the survival , decrease the incidence of residual tumor at the resected stump , reduce the incidence of local recurrence , and increase the resectability rate . 
emergency aortocoronary bypass after failed angioplasty . one thousand two hundred fourteen percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties were performed over a 38-month period . sixty patients required immediate emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after angioplasty failure ; 7 of these had evidence of acute myocardial infarction before angioplasty and were excluded from the study . of the 53 patients remaining , 27 ( 51 % ) had electrocardiographic and enzyme evidence of postoperative myocardial infarction . two patients died ( 4 % ) , and 10 had postoperative complications ( 19 % ) . no statistical significance was noted comparing age , sex , incidence of prior myocardial infarction or myocardial dysfunction , time for revascularization , or average number of grafts completed in those with single-vessel ( n = 21 ) versus multiple-vessel ( n = 32 ) coronary artery disease . postoperatively , those with multiple-vessel disease required intraaortic balloon pump support ( p = 0.06 ) and antiarrhythmic medications more frequently than single-vessel patients ( p less than 0.01 ) and had a higher complication rate ( p less than 0.05 ) . although not reaching statistical significance , the data also suggest a higher death and postoperative myocardial infarction rate in patients with multiple-vessel disease . emergency coronary artery bypass grafting after failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty carries a higher morbidity and mortality than elective coronary artery bypass grafting , particularly for patients with multiple-vessel coronary artery disease . 
long-term results of ionescu-shiley valve in the tricuspid position . a retrospective analysis of the long-term results of using the ionescu-shiley pericardial bioprosthesis in the tricuspid position was carried out on 73 patients ( 8 men , 65 women ) . of these procedures , ten were tricuspid valve replacement alone and the remainder were in combination with other valve procedures . the mean follow-up was 9.6 years ( range , 4 to 18 years ) . the mean age of the patients was 53 years ( range , 27 to 78 years ) . seventy-one of the patients suffered tricuspid valve dysfunction from rheumatic heart disease . there were 13 postoperative deaths ( within 30 days ) , giving a mortality rate of 17.8 % . the actuarial survival at 10 years was 71 % + / - 4.2 % . of the survivors , 49 ( 79.6 % ) were in functional class i or ii . primary tissue valve failure in the tricuspid position occurred in 1 patient 12 years after implantation and required reoperation . in another patient bioprosthetic tricuspid valve endocarditis developed . there was no incidence of thromboembolic complications . we conclude that the ionescu-shiley pericardial bioprosthesis was a satisfactory prosthesis in the tricuspid position in patients with acquired valvar dysfunction . 
long-term results after atrial correction of complete transposition of the great arteries . this study presents the late results for the first 104 consecutive patients surviving and atrial repair for transposition of the great arteries ( tga ) between january 1971 and december 1978 ( group 1 ) . mean follow-up was 12 years ( range , 0.1 to 17.7 years ) . the actuarial survival rate at 18 years was 84.2 % ( 70 % confidence limits , 79 % to 88 % ) for simple tga and 93.7 % ( 70 % confidence limits , 84 % to 97 % ) for complex tga . nine of the 11 deaths were sudden . two ( 2.6 % ) of the 78 late survivors operated on for simple tga are in new york heart association functional class iii or iv versus 4 ( 26.7 % ) of the 15 survivors with complex tga ; the other patients are doing very well . to better assess long-term results , we report the findings for randomly obtained electrocardiograms , holter monitor recordings , radionuclide angiographic studies , and cardiac catheterizations performed in 1987 in a larger group of 159 long-term survivors of atrial repair operated on at ospedale riuniti di bergamo from january 1971 to december 1984 ( group 2 ) , which includes all of group 1 . the findings confirm that the arterial switch repair is the procedure of choice for complex tga and that there is a major incidence ( approximately 10 % ) of systemic right ventricular dysfunction and rhythm disturbances after the atrial repair . on the other hand , our late survival rate at 18 years of 84 % for simple tga with 97.5 % of the patients in functional class i is a result that should be kept in mind , especially in institutions where the arterial switch is a relatively new approach and presumably is a higher risk to cause early death . 
intrathoracic fibrin glue for postoperative pleuropulmonary fistula . twenty cases of persistent pleuropulmonary fistula after a thoracic surgical procedure were successfully treated with fibrin glue injection into the thoracic cavity through a drainage tube . a new technique , the overlying method , which is a modification of the conventional technique of fibrin glue injection , was devised . each patient received one to four injections ( mean number , 1.6 ) . this method resulted in closure of the pleuropulmonary fistula in all but 1 patient . minor complications included pain in 1 patient and fever in 3 patients . a control study involving 24 patients with pleuropulmonary fistula was performed . autoblood , ok-432 , and tetracycline were used instead of fibrin glue . the fistula resolved in 12 patients . complications after injection included pain in 15 patients , fever in 10 , and occlusion of the chest tube in 4 . with our new method , patients rarely exhibited pain and fever , and occlusion of the chest tube did not occur . 
coronary pathology predicts conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting . conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting may result from compromised septal blood flow . to examine this hypothesis we reviewed the preoperative coronary angiography of 55 consecutive patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting . thirty-five patients had either no lesion or a discrete lesion in the left anterior descending coronary artery that did not include the septal perforator ( type i anatomy ) . twenty patients had a lesion of the left anterior descending coronary artery at the origin of the first septal branch , a lesion of the first septal artery , or a pair of lesions in the left anterior descending coronary artery that straddled the origin of the first septal artery ; all lesions were proximal to the graft site ( type ii anatomy ) . none of the patients with type i anatomy had a major conduction disturbance after coronary artery bypass grafting . eleven of the patients with type ii anatomy had major conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting ; right bundle-branch block in 1 , right bundle-branch block and left anterior hemiblock in 2 , left bundle-branch block in 5 , and complete atrioventricular block that required pacemaker implantation in 3 ( p less than 0.001 ) . in the 20 patients with type ii anatomy , the appearance of conduction disturbances correlated well with the absence of retrograde flow to the septal branches from the right coronary artery ( p less than 0.01 ) . pathological lesions in the left anterior descending coronary artery that compromise flow in the first perforator and that do not provide an adequate circulation produce localized damage and conduction disturbances after coronary artery bypass grafting . this can be predicted from the preoperative angiographic anatomy . 
late volume changes in retrosternal colon bypass . esophageal obstruction by malignancy , chemical burns , or other less common entities presents a challenge for the surgeon . either for esophageal substitution after esophageal resection or as a bypass for the obstructed esophagus , colon interposition is often the best available option . massive colonic enlargement requiring resection of the interposed dilated colon developed recently in 2 of our patients who had a colon bypass 22 and 10 years earlier , respectively . 
total unilateral lung gangrene in hodgkin 's disease : treatment by thoracostomy . total gangrene of the left lung developed in a 30-year-old male patient with a pulmonary recurrence of hodgkin 's disease after mediastinal irradiation and chemotherapy . clinically , tension pyopneumothorax and severe septic shock were present . surgical repair was done by thoracostomy , resecting three ribs . a 2 x 0.5-cm hole in the necrotic wall of the left main bronchus was covered with an intercostal muscle bundle . the necrotic pleural surfaces were treated openly by daily change of dressings . the patient recovered satisfactorily and underwent four further courses of chemotherapy without any complications . 
intraoperative management of severe endobronchial hemorrhage endobronchial hemorrhage due to pulmonary artery perforation by a swan-ganz catheter developed during coronary artery bypass grafting while weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass . after reinstitution of cardio-pulmonary bypass with pulmonary artery venting , bleeding was localized to the right lower lobe bronchus using fiberoptic bronchoscopy . a fogarty embolectomy catheter was inflated in the bronchus to tamponade successfully only the right lower lobe . this case illustrates a method of distal bronchial blockade for maximal retention of pulmonary function and avoidance of pulmonary resection . 
intraoperative echocardiography of a dislodged bjork-shiley mitral valve disc . the successful management of a patient who suffered an outlet strut fracture of a bjork-shiley 60-degree convexo-concave mitral valve prosthesis is reported . emergency operation was life-saving . preoperative echocardiography assisted in making a prompt diagnosis , and intraoperative echocardiography allowed the detection and removal of the dislodged disc from the left ventricle at the time of the operation . the role of intraoperative echocardiography in the diagnosis of prosthetic strut fracture is emphasized . 
dosage of haloperidol for schizophrenia . eighty-seven newly admitted inpatients with schizophrenia were randomized to receive 10 , 30 , or 80 mg/d of oral haloperidol . they were treated under double-blind conditions for 6 weeks , less if their acute symptoms remitted sooner . survival analysis showed no differences among the three treatments . side effects were minimal in all three treatment groups , and there were no differences in side effects among the groups . these results suggest that dosages higher than 10 mg/d of haloperidol for most patients have no additional beneficial effect in the treatment of acute or exacerbated schizophrenia . 
photic sneeze reflex in nephropathic cystinosis photic induced sneeze is a reflex that occurs in certain individuals after exposure to bright light . cystinosis is an autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism in which nonprotein cystine accumulates within lysosomes . the pathognomonic ocular manifestation of cystinosis is corneal crystal deposition . we observed photic induced sneezes during ophthalmoscopic examination in five of 19 patients with nephropathic cystinosis ( 26 % ) . we report on this observation and discuss possible pathophysiological mechanisms for photic induced sneezing in cystinosis . 
randomised single blind trial to compare the toxicity of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime in cataract surgery . comparatively little attention has been paid to the conjunctival toxicity of antibiotics administered at the time of cataract surgery . we have observed the effect of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime injection , using colour photography in a randomised single blind trial of 121 patients undergoing routine cataract surgery . our results suggest that a hyperaemic eye is likely to occur about twice as often in patients injected with gentamicin ( p less than 0.001 ) . gentamicin is associated with more pain postoperatively ( p less than 0.05 ) . significant manifestations of gentamicin toxicity are conjunctival oedema and capillary closure . cefuroxime has some theoretical advantages over gentamicin in its antibacterial spectrum . 
is thioridazine retinopathy progressive ? relationship of pigmentary changes to visual function . thioridazine toxicity has been described as a ' progressive chorioretinopathy ' , but this designation can be misleading . during the first year after thioridazine exposure retinal pigmentation evolves from a granular to a patchy or nummular appearance . however , visual function and the electroretinogram typically improve during this period . some cases may show chorioretinal atrophy and functional loss many years later , but there is little evidence for ongoing drug-related progression . late atrophy may represent degeneration of cells that were injured subclinically at the time of initial drug exposure . although thioridazine toxicity produces an evolving pigmentary disturbance , functional changes must be monitored independently of fundus appearance . 
infectious mononucleosis presenting as bilateral acute dacryocystitis . a case of infectious mononucleosis presenting as bilateral acute dacryocystitis in a 7-year-old girl is reported . acute dacryocystitis is uncommon in this age group , and an underlying systemic illness should be suspected particularly when it is bilateral . 
adrenal insufficiency in the cancer patient : implications for the surgeon . aspects of acute and chronic adrenal insufficiency of interest to surgeons who treat cancer patients are reviewed . clinical features and the management of both primary and secondary types are considered with reference to classification , aetiology , diagnosis and treatment . specifically considered are the management of patients with addison 's disease and metastases . prompt recognition and treatment of adrenal insufficiency can avert potentially life-threatening situations . 
changes in cardiovascular homeostasis after injury are mediated by tissue damage and not haemorrhage . during treatment of the injured patient it is assumed that the cardiovascular responses follow recognized physiological principles . studies in humans have shown that injury causes a profound suppression of arterial baroreflex function which alters the normal relationship between heart rate and blood pressure and casts doubt on this assumption . to investigate the mechanism of baroreflex suppression , we have studied the effects of the two major components of injury , blood loss and tissue damage , on baroreflex function in healthy volunteers . baroreflex function was assessed using suction stimulation of the carotid sinus . the loss of 500 ml blood had no effect on baroreflex sensitivity . a human laboratory model of tissue injury reduced the ability of the baroreflex to compensate for a rise in blood pressure ( p less than 0.05 , wilcoxon signed rank test ) . we conclude that tissue damage , rather than hypovolaemia , appears to mediate the effect of injury on baroreflex function in the injured . blockade of neural signals from damaged tissue may have a role in the treatment of injury . 
paraileostomy hernia : a clinical and radiological study . forty-six patients who underwent colectomy with end ileostomy for ulcerative colitis ( n = 33 ) or crohn 's disease ( n = 13 ) have been reviewed for paraileostomy hernia ( pih ) formation 1-16 years after surgery . pih developed in 13 of these patients ( 28 per cent ) and was not related to the original disease or excessive weight gain . twenty-eight patients underwent limited computed tomography ( ct ) scanning of the stomal region . eight of these had a clinically detectable pih , which was demonstrated on ct . a further two patients had pih demonstrated on ct which was not detected by clinical examination . the rate of pih was similar where the stoma emerged lateral to the rectus abdominis muscle ( six out of 16 patients , 37 per cent ) to where the stoma emerged through the rectus ( four out of 12 patients , 33 per cent ) . recurrence following operative repair of pih was common . pih occurs more frequently than previously supposed . ct can detect pih and may be useful in evaluating a patient with stoma-related symptoms for occult pih formation . 
disordered colorectal motility in intractable constipation following hysterectomy . colorectal and anal sphincter motility and electrophysiology were investigated in 14 women with profound constipation following hysterectomy and compared with an asymptomatic group of control subjects . twelve patients complained of significant urinary symptoms . no differences in the motor function of the anal sphincters were detectable . the latency of the pudendoanal reflex was unchanged after hysterectomy . proctometrograms demonstrated significantly increased rectal volumes and compliance in the hysterectomy group together with deficits of rectal sensory function . in the basal state a significant proximal-to-distal sigmoid colon motility gradient existed only in the control group . following stimulation with prostigmin , this gradient was enhanced in the control group but paradoxically reversed in the hysterectomized patients , thus constituting a functional obstruction . denervation supersensitivity was demonstrable in two patients tested with carbachol provocation but not in control subjects . these findings suggest dysfunction in the autonomic innervation of the hindgut in some patients who had undergone hysterectomy , resulting in severe constipation . 
surgical results of intrathoracic gastric volvulus complicating hiatal hernia . from 1981 to 1988 , 138 patients with hiatal hernia were treated surgically at our centre . twenty-one ( mean age 76.6 years , 17 women , four men ) had an associated intrathoracic gastric volvulus . eleven patients ( mean age 73.2 years ) , of whom eight were asymptomatic , had an elective procedure . ten patients ( mean age 80.3 years ) had emergency surgery , six for acute complications of the volvulus ( five cases of strangulation and one of perforated ulcer ) and four because of other , unrelated causes of acute abdomen . there were four deaths after operation , all in the emergency surgery group . four other patients had significant morbidity , all in the emergency group . in the elective cases , all hernias were easily reduced . in one emergency case a gastrotomy was necessary for decompression , and in another gastrectomy was necessary because of gastric gangrene . our results indicate the need for elective intervention when intrathoracic gastric volvulus is first diagnosed . 
infrainguinal bypass surgery : factors determining late graft patency . the results of 373 infrainguinal bypass grafts , in a single centre , between 1980 and 1988 are reviewed . one hundred and thirty in situ vein ( isv ) , 47 reversed saphenous vein ( rsv ) , 118 polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) and 78 human umbilical vein ( huv ) grafts were used . the indications for surgery were disabling claudication in 25 per cent of patients and limb salvage in 75 per cent . in 36 per cent of operations the distal anastomosis was above the knee and in 64 per cent it was below the knee . overall 5-year patency rates and limb salvage rates respectively were , for isv ( 41 and 69 per cent ) , rsv ( 62 and 90 per cent ) , ptfe ( 31 and 67 per cent ) and huv ( 29 and 59 per cent ) . there was no significant difference in patency among these grafts at the above-knee level , but significant differences between vein and prosthetic grafts were evident below the knee ( p less than 0.001 ) . using a proportional hazards model the three factors that consistently correlated with late graft patency were graft type ( p less than 0.001 ) , site of distal anastomosis ( p less than 0.001 ) and distal run-off ( p less than 0.001 ) . overall , the results suggest that prosthetic grafts are a suitable alternative to autogenous vein when the distal anastomosis is above the knee , but vein should always be used , if available , below the knee joint . 
symptomatic and essential rhythmic palatal myoclonus . rhythmic palatal myoclonus ( rpm ) is a rare movement disorder consisting of continuous synchronous jerks of the soft palate , muscles innervated by other cranial nerves and , rarely , trunk and limb muscles . it usually develops secondary to brainstem or cerebellar disease ( symptomatic rpm ) . some patients , however , fail to show evidence of a structural lesion ( essential rpm ) . a total of 287 cases with rpm from the literature including 210 cases with symptomatic and 77 cases with essential rpm have been reviewed and analysed statistically to look for criteria separating the two conditions . patients with essential rpm usually have objective earclicks as their typical complaint which is rare in the symptomatic form . eye and extremity muscles are never involved . the jerk frequency is lower in essential than in symptomatic rpm . patients with essential rpm are younger and have a balanced sex distribution as compared with a male preponderance in the symptomatic form . the rhythmicity of rpm seems to be more profoundly influenced by sleep , coma and general anaesthesia in essential than in symptomatic rpm . we conclude from these results that essential rpm should be separated as a distinct clinical entity . symptomatic rpm is a rhythmic movement disorder whose pathogenesis is quite well established . the cells of the hypertrophied inferior olives are believed to represent the oscillator . among other possibilities , essential rpm may represent its functional analogue , based on transmitter changes only . such a relationship could be of theoretical interest for the understanding of rhythmic hyperkinesias in general . 
muscle fatigue in mcardle 's disease . muscle fibre conduction velocity and surface emg frequency spectrum during ischaemic exercise . the origin of fatigue in mcardle 's disease is still a matter of debate . both a reduction of muscle membrane excitability and failure of excitation-contraction ( e-c ) coupling have been suggested as causes . we performed intermittent isometric biceps brachii contractions ( 80 % maximal voluntary contraction , rate 30/min ) under local ischaemia in 5 mcardle 's disease patients and 26 healthy controls . our results show that in mcardle 's disease the exerted force is less , the surface emg ( semg ) amplitude steadily increases , and that the power density spectrum ( pds ) shifts to lower frequencies , the latter without significant differences when compared with normals . the most important finding is that muscle membrane excitability remains unimpaired during ischaemic exercise , establishing a dominant role for intramuscular lactic acid formation in the reduction of muscle fibre conduction velocity seen in normal subjects . as is indicated by the shift of the pds towards lower frequencies , as well as by the increase in semg amplitude , it can be concluded that during ischaemic exercise in patients with myophosphorylase deficiency , fatigue occurs without alterations in muscle membrane excitability and is due to a failure of e-c coupling . 
striatonigral degeneration . a clinicopathological study . the clinical and pathological features of 10 cases of striatonigral degeneration are described : 5 were misdiagnosed in life as parkinson 's disease . retrospectively , helpful early pointers to the diagnosis in these cases included unexplained falls , autonomic dysfunction , absence of rest tremor and failure to respond to l-dopa , but these were not always present . the pathological diagnosis could not be excluded on macroscopic examination of the striatum . relative preservation of the putamen occurred in the 4 patients who benefited from l-dopa . the caudate nucleus was involved in all cases and there was no sparing of the large striatal neurons . in mild cases , involvement of the putamen was confined to its posterior two-thirds , dorsolaterally . with increasing severity this extended in a dorsal to ventral and posterior to anterior direction . seven of the cases had evidence of olivopontocerebellar damage , but only 2 of these had clinical evidence of cerebellar disease . correlation was found between the neuronal counts in caudate : putamen , striatum : nigra compacta , globus pallidus : nigra compacta , nigra compacta : locus coeruleus . the most severely involved part of the substantia nigra pars compacta was the ventrolateral zone , which projects to the dorsal putamen , the earliest site of striatal disease . 
mitral valve disruption following percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty . two cases of massive mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve disruption following percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty are reported . this severe complication occurred in two elderly women with recurrent mitral stenosis after previous surgical commissurotomy . due to their unstable hemodynamic and clinical condition , both patients underwent emergency valve replacement . at surgery , the commissures appeared fused and heavily calcified ; the chordae tendineae thickened , shortened , and fused ; and the leaflets presented a large tear with sheared edges . because the technical aspects of both procedures were unremarkable , the anatomic features of the mitral valve seemed to affect the occurrence of severe mitral regurgitation . percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty should be therefore applied carefully to patients with prior surgical valvotomy , in whom the structural alterations of the mitral apparatus may predispose to severe valvular damage . 
emergent saphenous vein graft stenting for acute occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . this report describes the initial use in the united states of emergency intravascular stenting for the treatment of acute coronary occlusion complicating elective saphenous vein graft angioplasty . this case adds further support to the role of the balloon expandable stent as an effective " bail out " device for failed angioplasty . 
post-caesarean section analgesia : a comparison of epidural butorphanol and morphine . epidural butorphanol 1 , 2 and 4 mg were compared with morphine , 5 mg , for postoperative analgesia in 92 consenting , healthy , term parturients who had undergone caesarean section under epidural lidocaine anaesthesia in a randomized double-blind study . postoperative pain was assessed using a visual analogue scale and recorded with heart rate , blood pressure and respiratory rate . the demographic characteristics , and the incidences of primary and repeat caesarean sections , were not different among the four treatment groups . at 15 , 30 , 45 and 60 min after treatment the median pain scores following butorphanol were similar and lower than those following morphine ( p less than 0.05 ) . calculated median percentage pain relief values for butorphanol were higher than morphine at each of these times ( p less than 0.05 ) . at 90 min and 2 hr the pain scores and pain relief values were similar . beyond 45 min the number of patients requesting supplemental medication and dropping out of the study increased progressively in both the butorphanol and morphine treated patients . the attrition profiles for butorphanol were different from morphine ( p less than 0.01 ) . the median time in the study was greater than 24 hr for morphine , and 3 , 2.5 and 4 hr for butorphanol , 1 , 2 or 4 mg , respectively . no patient developed a clinically important change in heart rate or blood pressure , and none experienced a decrease in respiratory rate below 12 breaths.min-1 . one of 69 patients ( 1.4 per cent ) who received butorphanol developed pruritus compared with ten ( 43 per cent ) of 23 patients who received morphine . the global assessments of the adequacy of analgesia were indistinguishable between morphine and butorphanol . epidural butorphanol provides safe , effective postoperative analgesia , has a prompt onset , and a limited duration . 
an alternative oxygen delivery system for infants and children in the post-anaesthesia care unit . this randomized controlled trial compared the compliance of a blow-by oxygen method with the standard face mask by children recovering from anaesthesia . the rate at which a face mask was rejected when applied to infants and children in pacu was compared with that of a proposed " hose " method . the efficacy of the " hose " as a method of oxygen supplementation in children at low and high risk for developing postoperative hypoxaemia was also compared with the face mask . using a nellcor n-200 pulse oximeter , 66 infants and children ( mean age 2.3 yr , range 2 mo-6 yr ) were continuously monitored for 30 min upon arrival in the pacu . patients were randomized to receive oxygen supplementation with either the face mask or the proposed " hose " method . the results showed a greater than 80 per cent rejection of the face mask in contrast to 100 per cent compliance with the " hose " method . the sao2 measurements following 5 , 15 and 30 min of o2 supplementation with the hose were all significantly higher than the sao2 measurements obtained on room air upon arrival to the pacu . patients with pre-existing cardiopulmonary disease had a 20 per cent incidence of arterial oxygen desaturation upon arrival to the pacu versus 2.1 per cent of patients with no pre-existing disease . it is concluded that the " hose " is associated with high patient compliance and is effective in the pacu in increasing the sao2 in children at low or high risk of developing postoperative hypoxaemia . 
interpleural analgesia improves pulmonary function after cholecystectomy . the purpose of this study was to examine the effects of interpleural bupivacaine on analgesia and ventilatory capacity after cholecystectomy . forty-two patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy were randomly assigned to two groups : one to receive interpleural administration of bupivacaine-adrenaline mixture ( group 1 = 22 patients ) and the other standard administration of intramuscular meperidine ( group 2 = 20 patients ) for postoperative pain relief . the intensity of pain was evaluated by a visual analogue scale ( vas ) preoperatively as well as at 2 , 8 , 24 and 48 hr postoperatively . at the same time , fvc and fev1 .0 measurements were obtained for all patients . the group given interpleural bupivacaine had better pain relief with mean vas of 0.6 + / - 0.9 ( mean + / - sd ) 1.1 + / - 1.4 , 0.6 + / - 0.9 and 0.8 + / - 1.2 compared with 5.2 + / - 2.2 , 5.8 + / - 2.7 , 5.5 + / - 2.2 and 4.5 + / - 1.8 for patients receiving meperidine ( p less than 0.001 ) . the patients in group 1 also had larger fvc and fev than those in group 2 : fvc 22 + / - 14.5 per cent vs 32 + / - 15.2 per cent ( p less than 0.005 ) , fev1 .0 25 + / - 15.5 vs 38 + / - 14.8 per cent ( p less than 0.001 ) ( mean + / - sd ) . we conclude that the interpleural analgesia can achieve better pain relief with greater ventilatory capacity than a standard analgesic regimen in the first two days after cholecystectomy . 
the turp syndrome . this article discusses the presentation , aetiology , treatment and prevention of central nervous system disturbances after transurethral resection of the prostate . nausea and vomiting , visual symptoms , and altered states of consciousness have been reported as complications due to intravascular absorption of irrigating fluid . hypotonicity after absorption of the irrigating fluid causes cerebral oedema . hyperglycinaemia may cause visual disturbances and hyperammonaemia may cause delayed coma . 
high incidence of cardiopulmonary complications associated with implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus in patients with advanced neurologic disease . objective : the purpose of our study was to examine the cardiopulmonary complications of a group of patients who had undergone implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus for treatment of neurologic disease . design : prospective study with partially matched historical controls . setting : tertiary care community medical center . patients and methods : seven patients with advanced parkinson 's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus . these patients were compared with respect to their cardiopulmonary complications with a control group who had undergone craniotomy and then compared with a control group who had undergone only abdominal surgery . results : in the study group , six patients developed major postoperative complications including development of large pleural effusions , lobar atelectasis , pneumonia , upper airway obstruction , and cardiac arrest . three patients had minor complications including development of small pleural effusions , subsegmental atelectasis , purulent bronchitis , mild congestive heart failure , and atrial flutter/fibrillation . one patient had an unremarkable postoperative course . the first control group , whose only surgery was a craniotomy , had only one major complication . the second control group , the abdominal surgery control group , had one major and five minor complications . conclusion : the particular neurologic disease , its severity , and the type of surgery performed appear to be causative factors in the high incidence of complications in the study group . 
effect of prostaglandin e1 infusion on leukocyte traffic and fibrosis in acute lung injury induced by bleomycin in hamsters . objective : to determine whether the iv infusion of prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) could modify the early influx of neutrophils into bleomycin-injured lungs and if that would affect subsequent development of inflammation and fibrosis . background and methods : in vivo controlled animal study performed in a university hospital pulmonary research laboratory . male syrian golden hamsters ( 100 - to 110-g body weight ) were divided into four treatment groups : a ) no treatment ; b ) intratracheal bleomycin plus pge1 infusion ; c ) bleomycin plus saline infusion ; d ) pge1 infusion only . pge1 ( 180 ng/hr .100 g ) or saline were infused iv 3 to 25 hr after intratracheal instillation of bleomycin sulfate ( 0.5 u/0 .5 ml .100 g ) . total and differential counts of cells recovered by lavage , lavage fluid protein , and lung total protein and hydroxyproline levels were measured from 6 hr to 30 days later . results : pge1 infusion reduced the influx of neutrophils 6 hr after bleomycin injury by 53 % compared with saline infusion ( p less than .0001 ) , but increased inflammatory cell traffic after 24 hr for 15 days . at 4 days , protein recovered in lung lavage fluid was also decreased in pge1-treated , bleomycin-injured animals , reflecting reduced injury to lung permeability barriers . accumulation of lung collagen in the pge1-treated , bleomycin-instilled hamsters tended to be lower than in the bleomycin-injured , saline-infused group at 15 and 30 days , although these differences did not achieve statistical significance . despite this fact , greater than 33 % of the animals in the pge1-treated group died , possibly indicating an increased risk of sepsis in these animals . conclusions : pge1 infusion can decrease early neutrophil traffic and reduce injury to the lung permeability barriers . however , this treatment augments late inflammatory events and does not significantly alter the development of fibrosis . 
oxygen debt and metabolic acidemia as quantitative predictors of mortality and the severity of the ischemic insult in hemorrhagic shock . background and methods : an experimental canine model of hemorrhagic , hypovolemic shock is described that uses oxygen debt and its metabolic consequences of lactic acidemia and metabolic base deficit as independent variables for the prediction of probability of death . results : lactic acidemia and metabolic base deficit are compared with the conventional hemodynamic variables of bp and cardiac output ( qt ) as predictors of outcome and are shown to be superior using a modified kaplan-meier probability statistic . the ld50 for oxygen debt is shown to be 113.5 ml/kg , 12.9 mmol/l for lactate , and -18.8 mmol/l for base excess ( be ) . comparison is made between the ability of qt , bp , shed blood , be , and lactate to predict oxygen debt . conclusions : of the single-variable predictors , be shows the highest explained variability . however , a combined prediction from both lactate and be appears superior to the use of either alone . using this regression to compute the oxygen debt , it is possible to estimate accurately the actual level of oxygen debt from the be and lactate values obtained during hemorrhagic hypovolemia . from serial determinations over time of the increase in these biochemical variables above the oxygen debt baseline , it is possible to estimate the rate of oxygen debt accumulation and the time remaining until the ld50 will be reached as indicators of the severity of the total body ischemia resulting from hemorrhagic shock . 
long-term postthoracotomy pain . we used a pain questionnaire to evaluate the prevalence and functional significance of long-term postthoracotomy pain . data on 56 patients who were at least 2 months postsurgery were analyzed . thirty patients ( 54 percent ) with a median follow-up of 19.5 months had persistent pain ; 26 others were pain free at a median of 30.5 months postthoracotomy . pain was reported in 24 of 44 patients ( 55 percent ) who were more than one year after surgery , 13 of 29 patients ( 45 percent ) more than two years , six of 16 ( 38 percent ) more than three years , and three of ten patients ( 30 percent ) greater than four years postthoracotomy . pain intensity was low , but 13 patients stated that pain " slightly " or " moderately " interfered with their lives . five of 56 patients had sufficiently severe chronic pain to require either daily analgesic use , nerve blocks , relaxation therapy , acupuncture , or referral to a pain clinic . we conclude that long-term chest wall pain is common postthoracotomy . it is generally not severe , but a small proportion of patients may experience persistent , moderately disabling pain . 
pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . we describe the cases of three women with pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the illness was characterized by elevated peripheral blood eosinophil counts , myalgias , fatigue , and dyspnea . two of three patients had bilateral infiltrates on chest roentgenograms . all three had markedly decreased carbon monoxide diffusing capacities and pulmonary hypertension . high-dose prednisone therapy provided only partial resolution of the pulmonary symptoms . open lung biopsy specimens showed chronic interstitial and perivascular infiltrates in two of the patients and moderate fibrointimal hyperplasia of pulmonary vasculature in the third . high-dose prednisone therapy prior to the biopsies may have modified the original histologic features . 
acute pulmonary embolism triggered by the act of defecation . pulmonary embolism associated with the act of defecation has not been previously well described . recently , we reported our experience with four patients who presented to us over a 12-month period with syncope , near syncope , or sudden death following the act of defecation . in all four cases , acute pulmonary embolism was shown to be the etiology of the defecation-associated events . a retrospective chart review of all patients with the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism at our institution over a three-year period yielded five additional patients with the diagnosis of defecation-associated pulmonary embolism . these nine patients accounted for 6.8 percent of all patients with a discharge diagnosis of pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the three-year study period . six of the nine patients died from their defecation-associated pulmonary embolism . these six deaths accounted for 25 percent of all deaths from pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the study period . based on our experience , we suggest that the act of defecation may trigger the development of acute pulmonary embolism in some patients with deep vein thrombosis . 
efficacy and safety of intravenous nicardipine in the control of postoperative hypertension . iv nicardipine study group . in a double-blind , randomized , multicenter study , the efficacy and safety of intravenous ( iv ) nicardipine was compared with placebo in the control of postoperative hypertension in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients . one hundred twenty-two patients ( 17 cardiac and 105 noncardiac surgery ) met the entry criteria ( systolic bp greater than or equal to 140 mm hg or diastolic bp greater than or equal to 95 mm hg ) and were randomized ( 3:2 ) to receive iv nicardipine ( n = 71 ) or placebo ( n = 51 ) . therapeutic response ( greater than or equal to 15 percent reduction in bp from baseline ) was achieved in 94 percent of patients treated with iv nicardipine vs 12 percent with placebo ( p less than 0.001 ) . the mean response time and infusion rate for iv nicardipine were 11.5 ( + / - 0.8 ) minutes and 12.8 ( + / - 0.3 ) mg/h , respectively . the magnitude of bp reduction was similar in both cardiac and noncardiac postsurgical patients . blood pressure control was sustained with minimal dose adjustments of iv nicardipine ( 3.0 + / - 0.2 mg/h ) during a prolonged maintenance infusion period of 6.8 + / - 0.5 h. a reflex mean increase in heart rate of 5 bpm was seen in patients treated with iv nicardipine . sixteen patients ( 15 noncardiac and one cardiac surgery ) had a sustained heart rate of greater than 100 bpm , with a mean increase of 24 bpm from the baseline . in all these patients except three , tachycardia was resolved while receiving nicardipine . none of these patients who had development of tachycardia during nicardipine therapy had exhibited st segment changes indicative of ischemia . one patient with tachycardia at baseline had exhibited st segment depression ( 3 to 4 mm ) during nicardipine treatment , which was resolved following discontinuation of nicardipine therapy and application of nitroglycerin ( nitropaste ) . hemodynamic evaluation revealed that iv nicardipine significantly decreased mean arterial pressure , systemic vascular resistance , and significantly increased cardiac index with no change in heart rate . these hemodynamic changes were similar in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients . adverse experiences reported with iv nicardipine included hypotension ( 4.5 percent ) , tachycardia ( 2.7 percent ) , and nausea/vomiting ( 4.5 percent ) . in the placebo group , the incidence of adverse experience was 6 percent , with an equal distribution of hypotension ( 2 percent ) , nausea/vomiting ( 2 percent ) , and headache ( 2 percent ) . no clinically important changes in laboratory variables related to iv nicardipine were reported . in conclusion , these findings indicate that nicardipine , a titratable intravenous calcium channel blocker , can rapidly and effectively control postoperative hypertension in cardiac and noncardiac surgical patients . 
progressive hemolytic anemia due to delayed recognition of a beall mitral valve prosthesis . in addition to a working knowledge of general complications such as thromboembolism and infective endocarditis , optimal care of the patient with a prosthetic valve requires specific knowledge concerning the characteristics of a given patient 's prosthesis . this may need to include the ability to identify the valve roentgenographically when history and records are unavailable . a 53-year-old woman with mitral stenosis secondary to rheumatic heart disease and status post a reported bjork-shiley mitral valve ( mv ) replacement 17 years prior to hospital admission was referred for evaluation of severe hemolytic anemia . previous cinefluoroscopy in 1986 at the time of a cerebrovascular accident revealed a normally functioning caged disc prosthesis and not the tilting disc of a bjork-shiley prosthetic valve . the valve was not further characterized and she continued receiving warfarin therapy until may 1989 when she presented with laboratory findings showing a marked hemolytic anemia with a hemoglobin of 6.5 mg/dl and lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) value of 2100 iu . echocardiography revealed normal valvular function without evidence of perivalvular leak . the patient was referred for further evaluation with chest roentgenogram at the time of hospital admission revealing a valve configuration characteristic of the beall model 103/104 series that has been found to manifest progressive disc variance with a high degree of hemolytic anemia ( despite normal noninvasive evaluation of mv function ) , disc tilting with intermittent regurgitation , and catastrophic disc embolization in extreme cases . the precise identification of valvular prosthesis in patients after valve replacement is crucial for optimal management . as in our case , the mere identification of a particular valve may necessitate certain management and therapy based on the natural history of that valve . in the absence of reliable history and/or records , the roentgenographic examination should lead to the precise identification . 
the acute and insidious onset of pulmonary metastatic transitional cell carcinoma . transitional cell carcinoma is a common urologic neoplasm . although pulmonary metastases from this tumor are often not appreciated clinically , they are frequently documented in autopsy studies . therefore , the clinical recognition of this condition can be problematic . to illustrate this point , we present three patients with progressive unexplained dyspnea and histories of transitional cell carcinoma . since ineffective and possibly detrimental therapeutic approaches may be initiated , a high index of suspicion for pulmonary metastatic embolization must be maintained . early histologic identification of these metastatic emboli and initiation of effective chemotherapy may prove beneficial for improved quality of life . 
spontaneous pneumothorax in aids patients with recurrent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia despite aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) may predispose these patients to recurrent apical pneumocystis infection . bullous changes and pulmonary cysts develop in the lung apices due to repeated episodes of inflammation and cytotoxic effects of hiv on pulmonary macrophages . these changes progress despite prophylaxis against recurrent pneumocystis infection with aerosolized pentamidine , increasing the risk of spontaneous pneumothorax . two cases are presented of bilateral pneumothoraces in patients with aids and recurrent p carinii pneumonia despite aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . patients receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis for pneumocystis pneumonia appear to have an increased risk of pneumothorax due to recurrent apical infections with p carinii . 
pathologic bronchial vasculature in a case of massive hemoptysis due to chronic bronchitis . the cause of bleeding in a patient with recurrent massive hemoptysis was not apparent after bronchoscopy and gross examination of the lobectomy specimen . histologic submission of all major bronchi uncovered dilated , tortuous bronchial arteries just below the bronchial mucosa with sites of both current and healing arterial rupture . this bronchial arterial abnormality is common to several chronic pulmonary diseases , but is rarely diagnosed as a cause of massive hemoptysis . careful pathologic examination of major bronchi in the setting of hemoptysis of unknown causation is recommended . 
bilateral reexpansion pulmonary edema following unilateral pleurocentesis . acute ipsilateral pulmonary edema following reexpansion of the lung after pleurocentesis or pneumothorax is a well described entity . we report the unusual occurrence of bilateral pulmonary edema following unilateral pleurocentesis in a young male without heart disease . various hypotheses regarding the mechanism of reexpansion pulmonary edema include increased capillary permeability due to hypoxic injury , decreased surfactant production , altered pulmonary perfusion and mechanical stretching of membranes . this case suggests that forces leading to ipsilateral reexpansion pulmonary edema also affect the contralateral lung . 
total left main coronary artery occlusion after aortic aneurysm repair and valve replacement . a 38-year-old woman with complete occlusion of the left main coronary artery secondary to cannulation during aortic valve replacement is presented . the clinical course was characterized by progressive left ventricular dysfunction and congestive heart failure . recognition of this potential problem when it occurs is important as to institute therapeutic measures which may interrupt a patient 's progressive clinical deterioration . 
cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after subclavian vein catheterization . a patient developed life-threatening cardiac tamponade and contralateral hemothorax after insertion of a subclavian catheter in the operating room . contrast was infused through the catheter , demonstrating its malposition in the pericardial space . contrast infusion was valuable in evaluating this complication of central line placement . 
stress-induced adrenocorticotropin secretion : diurnal responses and decreases during stress in the evening are not dependent on corticosterone . to test whether the diurnal rhythm in stress responsiveness is dependent on corticosterone ( b ) - mediated negative feedback , the responses of intact ( sham ) and adrenalectomized ( adx ) rats to restraint for 3-90 minutes or ip injection with saline in the morning ( am ) and the evening ( pm ) were compared . in both sham and adx rats , acth responses to restraint stress were larger in the am . in intact rats , this could have resulted from both fast negative feedback , due to the rate of rise of b during the stress in the pm , and delayed negative feedback , due to the high basal concentrations of b before the stress in the pm . however , this diurnal pattern of stress responsiveness was not dependent on b , as the same relative responses to restraint and ip injection were found in adx rats . to determine whether the lack of response of adx rats in the pm to stress was due to a loss of sensitivity to endogenous secretagogues , adx rats were given crf + arginine vasopressin ( avp ) while anesthetized with ether after 30 min of restraint . in both the am and the pm , the pituitaries were able to respond to exogenous secretagogues . a second novel finding was that in the pm , but not the am , plasma acth concentrations in the adx rats decreased substantially during the period of restraint , despite the lack of b-mediated negative feedback . in the am and the pm , adx rats were restrained for 30 min and then stressed with ether for 6 min . the acth concentrations were not different before and after ether , suggesting that , although the pituitaries of adx rats are able to respond to exogenous crf + avp after stress , an additional stress of ether exposure no longer stimulates endogenous crf and avp release after 30 min of restraint at either time of day . after 90 min of restraint in the am and the pm , the relationship between acth and b was positive , not negative , providing no evidence of ongoing b-mediated negative feedback in the sham rats . therefore , the same mechanism responsible for the decrease in acth secretion in adx rats may occur in sham rats as well . from these results , we conclude that the diurnal rhythm in stress responsiveness and , in the pm in the adx rats , the decrease in plasma acth during stress , are largely independent of b. 
systemic and local administration of cyclosporine in the treatment of psoriasis . since 1984 , cyclosporine has been used increasingly for indications other than in prophylaxis of transplant rejection . current awareness that psoriasis is , at least in part , a t cell-mediated condition has led to the initiation of several studies of cyclosporine 's role in the treatment of this disease . the remarkable efficacy of systemically administered cyclosporine , even in severely refractory cases of psoriasis , has not only provided us with a new therapeutic option but also has helped further our understanding of the pathophysiology of psoriasis . although it has been hailed as a breakthrough , systemic cyclosporine usage is associated with undesirable sequelae , principally hypertension and decreased renal function . these effects limit its more widespread use . this review assesses current knowledge of the capabilities and prospects of systemic cyclosporine in the treatment of psoriasis , as well as the status of topical preparations . 
evaluating and influencing periodontal diagnostic and treatment behaviors in general practice . providers ' periodontal diagnostic and treatment behaviors were assessed in 34 practices in two north carolina counties . regularly attending patients had a low prevalence of gingival pocketing on index teeth , moderate attachment loss , and fairly prevalent bleeding and calculus . treatment frequency and patient knowledge were generally adequate , but the notation of periodontal status in the patient record was insufficient . a continuing education intervention resulted in substantial and significant improvement in notation rates . changes in rates with which services were provided , and changes in patient periodontal status were smaller and mixed . the study shows that continuing education can be effective in helping some but not all providers adopt needed , appropriate behaviors . 
asymptomatic periapical radiolucent lesion found in an area of previous trauma [ published erratum appears in j am dent assoc 1991 feb ; 122 ( 2 ) :18 ] the case of an anterior mandibular radiolucent area , which unexpectedly yielded salivary gland tissue , is described . salivary gland depressions in the posterior mandible are readily recognized because of their almost pathognomonic radiographic appearance . a salivary gland inclusion in the anterior mandible in the proximity of teeth may create a diagnostic dilemma where superimposed periapical pathosis is present . the clinical importance lies in the recognition and appropriate treatment of the lesion . for the anterior salivary gland inclusion , a biopsy and a microscopic examination provide the most reliable diagnosis . 
the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome . the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome is an entity that presents a diagnostic challenge to the clinician . although many infectious and noninfectious etiologies exist for this syndrome , viruses , especially nonpolio enteroviruses , are the classic and most important agents encountered . the incidence of polio and mumps meningitis has declined dramatically in the vaccine era , but recently described pathogens , such as human immunodeficiency virus and borrelia burgdorferi ( lyme disease agent ) are now important considerations in the differential diagnosis . specifically treatable entities ( eg , mycobacterial or fungal meningitis , herpes simplex encephalitis , parameningeal infection ) that may mimic aseptic meningitis in their initial presentations must not be overlooked . a careful approach to the patient and a rational use of laboratory studies are the basis for establishing a specific diagnosis and assuring a favorable outcome . 
meningitis in the neurosurgical patient . in the patient with a basilar skull fracture and csf leak , the risk of meningitis is greatly increased . the diagnosis of both leak and infection can be obscured by the patient 's other injuries , and requires aggressive investigation of symptoms that suggest infection . although the diagnosis is made with csf cultures , when clinically suspected , treatment should begin after appropriate cultures have been obtained . treatment should be directed against the most likely organisms , streptococcus pneumoniae , haemophilus influenzae , and the other organisms common to the upper respiratory tract . there are no good indications for prophylactic antibiotic usage in patients with known csf leaks . the patient with a shunt or other cns prosthetic device may have various manifestations of infection , depending on the type of device and its termination . frank meningitis or ventriculitis is not always present . diagnosis requires direct culturing of the shunt milieu , with the most frequent isolates being staphylococcal species and gram-negative enteric bacilli . the most effective therapy , for both eradication of the infection and minimization of the duration and morbidity of therapy , involves removal of the infected shunt , external drainage during parenteral antibiotic therapy , and complete replacement of hardware at the time of internalization . the postsurgical patient will not develop meningitis very frequently , but like the posttrauma patient , concurrent factors can make the diagnosis difficult . differentiating infectious from chemical meningitis must often be initially based on csf cell counts and chemistries alone . treatment to cover the most likely organism , staphylococcal species and respiratory flora , should be started before the culture results are finalized . 
persistent neutrophilic meningitis . persistent neutrophilic meningitis is an unusual but distinct clinical variant of chronic meningitis characterized by csf neutrophilia with hypoglycorrhachia which persists for more than 1 week on serial csf studies . documented etiologies include selected bacteria and higher bacteria such as brucella , nocardia and actinomyces as well as " opportunistic " fungi such as candida , aspergillus , the zygomycetes , and pseudallescheria . recognition of the syndrome is important , as empiric therapy ( e.g. , cotrimoxazole and amphotericin b ) may differ significantly from that used for classic chronic meningitis . 
chronic pain in primary care . identification and management of psychosocial factors . chronic pain is a problem of great public health importance that is frequently seen in the primary care setting . pain chronicity shows a strong association with psychosocial factors . assessment of these factors should be composed of two parts : ( 1 ) psychological factors and ( 2 ) psychiatric illness . psychological factors include all those pain-associated alterations in the patient 's environment that reinforce illness behavior . psychiatric illness includes those syndromes that retard recovery from illness or injury , such as depression , anxiety , substance abuse , and dementia . psychiatric and psychological interventions can be successfully introduced in the context of a comprehensive rehabilitation effort . usually these interventions can be accomplished by the family physician in concert with a consultant psychiatrist or psychologist . in severely disabled or resistant patients , referral to a multidisciplinary pain clinic will be necessary . 
the " military family syndrome " revisited : " by the numbers " . because concerns have been raised about high levels of psychopathology in military children , the authors used standardized psychopathology rating scales to survey 213 six-to twelve-year-old children of military parents and their parents . results from children 's symptom self-reports , as well as from teachers ' ratings of children , indicated that children 's symptom levels were at levels consistent with national norms . in contrast , parents ' ( especially mothers ' ) ratings of children were significantly higher than national norms , as were parents ' ratings of their own symptoms . also , parents ' own symptom reports showed somewhat stronger relationships with life stressors presumably affecting the child than did the children 's and teachers ' reports . results suggest that parents ' reports of children 's symptoms may be mediated by the effects of military life stressors on the parents , but these stressors do not necessarily result in higher symptoms in the children . overall results do not support the notion that levels of psychopathology are greatly increased in children of military parents . further studies of military families should address the effects of rank and socioeconomic status , housing , and the current impact of life stressors on the parents as well as the children in order to avoid drawing erroneous conclusions about parts or all of the military community . 
motor dysfunction in hiv-infected patients without clinically detectable central-nervous deficit . motor tests were performed in 50 hiv-infected patients in all stages according to the current cdc classification , but without any clinically evident central nervous system deficit , and the results compared with an age-matched control group . patients were excluded from the study if there was alcohol or drug abuse , fever and/or opportunistic cerebral infection . the parameters tested were postural tremor of the outstretched hands , most rapid voluntary alternating index finger movements ( mram ) and rise time of most rapid index finger extensions ( mrc ) . whereas tremor peak frequencies did not differ significantly in the patients and controls , mram and rise times of mrcs showed significant slowing in the patient group . morphologically , the motor test performance of the hiv-infected patients was similar to that of patients with manifest basal ganglia disease ( parkinson 's , huntington 's and wilson 's diseases ) . mri scans of all patients were normal . it is concluded that in hiv-infected patients there is a very early subclinical central nervous system affection , especially of the basal ganglia , which is detectable with appropriate , quantitative motor function tests . these functional abnormalities precede the structural alterations in the mri scans . 
progressive inflammatory lesions of the brain parenchyma in localized scleroderma of the head . a patient with localized scleroderma of the head , uveitis , and raynaud 's phenomenon presented with generalized seizures , spastic hemiparesis , and local igg production in the cerebrospinal fluid . magnetic resonance imaging revealed progressive cortical and subcortical brain parenchymal lesions mainly adjacent to the cutaneous and bony lesions and probably of inflammatory origin . 
outpatient orthognathic surgery : criteria and a review of cases . over a 9-year period , 87 orthognathic procedures were performed in an outpatient environment . procedures performed included horizontal mandibular osteotomies , rapid palatal expansions , bilateral sagittal split osteotomies , posterior and anterior maxillary osteotomies , and le fort i osteotomies . fourteen of these patients were subsequently admitted to a hospital for either observation or full inpatient care . the rates of admission varied for each of the procedures , with length of anesthesia statistically related to the frequency of admission . patient selection criteria and facilities used are reviewed . 
arthroscopic treatment of temporomandibular joint locking resulting from disc derangement : two-year results . this article reports 2-year postarthroscopic surgical treatment data for 18 subjects ( 17 female and 1 male ) who had a diagnosis of restricted mandibular movement due to an internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) . these subjects had been treated by an average of 2.1 + / - 1.1 doctors for their tmj problem before seeing the surgeon for arthroscopic treatment . the subjects ' mean pain score at the final time point ( 21 to 30 months after surgery ) was decreased by 57 % in usual pain intensity . jaw function showed an average improvement of 67 % . these subjects also showed a 13-mm mean increase in their maximum active opening ability at the 2-year postsurgical time point . slight to definite clicking noises were present presurgically in 11 of 18 patients , and similar joint noises were reported in 14 of 18 patients postsurgically . the mean overall improvement was rated as 8.18 + / - 2.4 , with 10 the highest possible rating . one subject rated her improvement as 0 , two subjects rated their improvement as 6 out of 10 . no significant morbidity was reported by the subjects as a result of their surgery . 
periurethral colonic-type polyp simulating urethral caruncle . a case report . a 50-year-old , black woman presented with a 1-cm , polypoid lesion on the posterior edge of the urethral meatus that had the gross appearance of a urethral caruncle . the histologic features , however , revealed a superficially ulcerated lesion composed of colonic-type mucosal glands with focal regenerative atypia in response to inflammation . a similar histologic pattern is also found in so-called solitary rectal ulcer syndrome and inflammatory cloacogenic polyps arising in the anorectal area . based upon an english-language literature review , this case appears to be the second reported one of an intestinal-type polyp in this location . the patient had no further problems after excisional biopsy . 
severe preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia secondary to uvular edema . a case report . in addition to hypertension and proteinuria , generalized edema is seen commonly in women with severe preeclampsia . a patient presented to us at term with the complaint of dysphonia . upon examination she appeared to be clearly preeclamptic and had a grossly edemetous uvula , which we think occurred secondary to generalized edema . this case might be the first reported one of preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia and of uvular edema in association with preeclampsia . 
role of cephamycins in obstetrics and gynecology . infections of the female upper genital tract are usually polymicrobic , often involving mixed aerobic ( facultative ) and anaerobic bacteria . optimal therapy provides coverage against aerobes ( both gram positive and gram negative and especially the enterobacteriaceae ) and anaerobes ( especially the beta-lactamase-producing gram-negative species , such as bacteroides ) . a variety of antibiotics provide the broad spectrum of activity needed for these infections , including clindamycin plus an aminoglycoside , cephalosporins and cephamycins , imipenem , extended-spectrum penicillins and the beta-lactam agents combined with a beta-lactamase inhibitor . the cephamycins -- cefoxitin , cefotetan and cefmetazole -- have been shown to have a high rate of clinical efficacy and bacteriologic response . the cephalosporins are usually used for prophylaxis at the time of obstetric and gynecologic surgery . the cephamycins have recently undergone extensive evaluation for prophylaxis and have demonstrated comparable microbiologic and clinical efficacy . a pharmacokinetic comparison of cefoxitin , cefotetan and cefmetazole points to cefmetazole as a cost-effective alternative to cefoxitin and cefotetan for both prophylaxis and treatment of pelvic infections . 
durability of vein graft revision : the outcome of secondary procedures . occlusive lesions that reduced graft blood flow and ankle systolic pressure were identified in 83 femorodistal saphenous vein bypasses by use of duplex scanning or arteriography . sites of stenosis included vein conduit ( n = 41 ) , anastomoses ( n = 20 ) , outflow arteries ( n = 15 ) , or inflow ( n = 9 ) arteries . one hundred three secondary procedures consisting of vein-patch angioplasty ( n = 31 ) , sequential ( n = 21 ) or interposition ( n = 17 ) graft placement , percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty ( n = 17 ) , or excision of the lesion and primary anastomosis ( n = 16 ) were performed to correct primary ( n = 85 ) or recurrent ( n = 18 ) graft stenoses . cumulative graft patency after reintervention was 96 % at 1 year , and 85 % at 5 years . stenosis or occlusion of revision sites was less after excision ( 0 of 16 ) or replacement ( 1 of 17 ) of abnormal segments compared to vein-patch angioplasty ( 8 of 31 ) or balloon angioplasty ( 9 of 18 ) . sequential or jump grafts constructed to improve graft outflow impaired by either myointimal or atherosclerotic occlusive lesions were the least durable secondary procedures . five of eight graft failures in this series resulted from sequential/jump graft occlusion . all categories of secondary procedures normalized graft and limb hemodynamics , although only one third of patients reported symptoms of limb ischemia before revision . surveillance of infrainguinal vein bypasses for occlusive lesions is a valid concept to salvage patent but hemodynamically-failing grafts . secondary procedures that excised the lesion , used autologous tissue reconstruction , and normalized hemodynamics at the revision site and in the vein bypass were associated with a low incidence of restenosis and prolonged graft patency . 
simultaneous operative repair of multilevel lower extremity occlusive disease . sixty-two patients ( 39 men ( 63 % ) , 23 women ( 27 % ) , mean age 68 years ) with multilevel lower extremity arterial occlusive disease underwent simultaneous inflow and outflow operative arterial repair consisting of aortofemoral bypass in 22 ( 35 % ) , axillofemoral bypass in 17 ( 28 % ) , femorofemoral bypass in 15 ( 24 % ) , iliac endarterectomy in 7 ( 11 % ) , and unilateral aortoiliac bypass in 1 ( 2 % ) , combined with 69 outflow procedures ( unilateral in 55 patients , 89 % ) , including above-knee femoropopliteal in 12 ( 17 % ) , below-knee femoropopliteal in 35 ( 51 % ) , femoroinfrapopliteal in 20 ( 29 % ) , popliteal tibial in 1 ( 1 % ) , and femoropedal bypass in 1 ( 1 % ) . multiple criteria were used to identify patients with multilevel disease likely to benefit from multilevel procedures . the operations were performed by two operating teams in a median time of 240 minutes . prosthetic grafts were used for eight ( 13 % ) distal bypasses , the remainder were autogenous vein . there was one operative death ( 1.8 % ) . the mortality rate , morbidity rate , and operative time were not significantly different from a group of patients who underwent concurrent , isolated inflow operations ( aortofemoral , axillobifemoral , femorofemoral bypass or iliac endarterectomy ) . mean follow-up was 14.9 months ( range , 0 to 120 ) . the life-table primary patency for the inflow procedures was 92.6 % at 24 months , the outflow was 94.9 % at 24 months . cumulative limb salvage was 90.9 % at 48-month follow-up . all patients with claudication were relieved of their symptoms . we conclude that complete correction of multilevel disease can be accomplished with operative time , morbidity rate , and patency equal to that of single level repair . multilevel procedures provide complete relief of symptoms in a higher percentage of patients than has been reported after single level repair . 
laser angioplasty in peripheral vascular disease : symptomatic versus hemodynamic results . most early reports on the efficacy of laser angioplasty have used subjective symptoms rather than objective hemodynamic parameters to evaluate clinical results . we reviewed our experience with hot tip laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in 99 occluded or stenotic arterial segments during 80 procedures in 71 patients , ranging from the aortic bifurcation to the tibial-peroneal trunk . initial failure to successfully recanalize occluded or stenotic segments occurred in 13 instances ( 16 % ) . forty-one procedure-related complications occurred in 31 patients ( 39 % ) . functional results were evaluated by use of life-table methods on the basis of symptomatic versus hemodynamic improvement . cumulative patency rates for symptomatic and hemodynamic improvement were 91 % and 64 % at 1 month , 71 % and 48 % at 6 months , and 57 % and 34 % at 1 year , respectively . these data suggest that symptomatic improvement alone gives a misleadingly high estimate of the efficacy of laser angioplasty when compared with more objective hemodynamic criteria ( p less than 0.005 ) . hemodynamic success was more likely in aortoiliac lesions than femoropopliteal lesions ( 58 % vs 18 % at 1 year , p less than 0.01 ) . hemodynamic parameters should be used to evaluate the success of laser angioplasty , which in its present form , is associated with frequent complications and poor long-term success . 
abdominal aortic aneurysm with perianeurysmal fibrosis : experience from 11 swedish vascular centers . case records of 2026 patients operated on because of abdominal aortic aneurysms from 11 swedish vascular centers were reviewed and revealed 98 cases ( 4.8 % ) of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm . also included in this case-control study was an analysis of a randomized group of 82 patients from the same centers who had noninflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms . four inflammatory aneurysms were ruptured , compared with 16 in the noninflammatory group ( p less than 0.01 ) . a higher proportion of patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms had symptoms that led to radiographic investigations . the median erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 39 mm versus 19 mm ( 26 % of patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms had erythrocyte sedimentation rates greater than 50 mm ; p less than 0.001 ) , and the serum creatinine level was increased in 27 and 8 patients ( p less than 0.01 ) in the inflammatory and noninflammatory groups , respectively . preoperative investigations revealed ureteral obstruction in 19 patients with inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms , of whom 12 had preoperative nephrostomy or ureteral catheter placement . at operation , 20 additional patients exhibited fibrosis around one or both ureters . although ureterolysis was performed in 19 patients , preoperative and postoperative creatinine levels did not differ between these patients and the conservatively treated ones . duration of surgery ( 215 vs 218 minutes ) , intraoperative blood loss ( 2085 vs 2400 ml ) and complications did not differ significantly between the groups . overall operative ( 30-day ) mortality was equal ( 11 % vs 12 % ) but was increased for patients undergoing elective surgery for inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms ( 9 % vs 0 % ; p = 0.03 ) . 
aortocaval and iliac arteriovenous fistulas : recognition and treatment . despite the well characterized physiologic effects of aortocaval or iliac arteriovenous fistulas , patients with such uncommon lesions may manifest a diverse array of symptoms , and diagnosis is often delayed or overlooked . to examine clinical features that facilitate recognition and allow successful repair , a 30-year experience with 20 such fistulas was reviewed . fourteen fistulas were caused by aneurysm erosion , four followed iatrogenic injury during lumbar disk surgery , and two developed from abdominal gunshot wounds . the interval from presumed occurrence to diagnosis ranged from 3 hours to 8 years . the diagnosis was not recognized before surgery in five ( 25 % ) patients . back pain ( 70 % ) was the most common symptom . the presence of a typical abdominal bruit ( 80 % ) was the most reliable physical finding , but its significance was occasionally overlooked or misinterpreted . congestive heart failure was prominent in only seven ( 35 % ) patients . severe lower extremity edema and mottling was the primary manifestation in eight cases , often causing initial confusion with venous thrombosis . hematuria ( 5 patients ) and oliguric renal failure ( 4 patients ) , both fully reversible after fistula repair , also caused diagnostic uncertainty . the mean preoperative cardiac output was 12.2 l/min , falling to 5.4 l/min with fistula repair . mean blood loss was 5960 ml , supporting use of intraoperative autotransfusion . two operative deaths ( 10 % ) occurred , both in patients not correctly diagnosed before surgery . despite varied modes of presentation , prompt recognition and use of appropriate operative techniques should achieve successful repair . 
a prospective study of the incidence and natural history of femoral vascular complications after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . over a 14-month period patients undergoing 144 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedures were evaluated for the presence of complications at the femoral puncture site . after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty each patient was examined by a surgeon , and then a color-flow duplex scan of the groin was obtained . on the initial scan eight pseudoaneurysms , three arteriovenous fistulas , one combined arteriovenous fistula-pseudoaneurysm , and one thrombosed superficial femoral artery were detected for a major vascular complication rate of 9 % . pseudoaneurysm formation was associated with the use of heparin after removal of the arterial sheath . seven pseudoaneurysms ( initial extravascular cavity size range 1.3 to 3.5 cm ) were followed with weekly duplex scans , and all thrombosed spontaneously within 4 weeks of detection . the three patients with isolated arteriovenous fistulas were each followed for at least 8 weeks , and the arteriovenous fistulas persisted . early surgical intervention for postcatheterization femoral pseudoaneurysms is usually unnecessary as thrombosis often occurs spontaneously . we would advocate an operative approach for pseudoaneurysms that are symptomatic , expanding , or associated with large hematomas . iatrogenic femoral arteriovenous fistulas should be considered for elective repair , but this may be delayed for several weeks without adverse sequelae . 
mechanisms of vein graft atherosclerosis : ldl metabolism and endothelial actin reorganization . we have explored the effect of arterial hemodynamics on endothelial cell morphology and low-density lipoprotein metabolism in human saphenous vein segments harvested from tissue donors . an arterial pulsatile perfusion system was used to impose physiologic pressures and flows for 20 hours on saphenous vein and companion ( control ) femoral artery segments . a venous perfusion apparatus was also employed for the perfusion of a second ( control ) saphenous vein segment for the same period of time . calculations of fluid shearing and wall tensile stresses were performed and related to induced changes in endothelial cell geometry and cytoskeletal actin organization and the incorporation , degradation , and localization of intact low-density lipoprotein within the vessel wall . our results indicate that , compared with native arteries and veins , a 20-hour exposure of test saphenous veins to arterial hemodynamics induced ( 1 ) a significant increase in endothelial cell luminal surface area and perimeter independent of alignment with flow , ( 2 ) disassembly of the dense peripheral band of actin with a concomitant assembly of stress fibers , and ( 3 ) a two - to fourfold elevation in the undegraded low-density lipoprotein content , localized primarily within the subendothelial intima . although the exact mechanisms underlying these results are uncertain , the focal accumulation of intramural low-density lipoprotein may be related to the loss of normal barrier function during endothelial cell enlargement , which is accompanied by transient cytoskeletal reorganization during the adaptation to arterial flow . 
maternal outcome after open fetal surgery . a review of the first 17 human cases . a few fetal diseases may benefit from surgical treatment before birth , but hysterotomy and subsequent delivery by cesarean section pose a risk to the otherwise unaffected mother . to assess maternal risk of mortality , morbidity , and reproductive potential after fetal surgery , we reviewed our experience with 17 highly selected women who underwent fetal surgery . fifteen of these procedures were performed for one of two congenital anomalies : severe bilateral hydronephrosis and congenital diaphragmatic hernia . there were no deaths or serious maternal injuries . in the 14 women who continued pregnancy after hysterotomy , uterine irritability and preterm labor were frequent complications , requiring early confinement in most cases . there has been no detectable effect on future fertility , as indicated by eight subsequent normal pregnancies . we conclude that hysterotomy for fetal surgery can be accomplished without unduly endangering the mother 's life or her future reproductive potential . however , morbidity related to premature labor remains a serious problem , and our ability to control uterine contractions after hysterotomy remains the limiting factor in human fetal surgery . 
prolonged continuous acyclovir treatment of normal adults with frequently recurring genital herpes simplex virus infection . the acyclovir study group . in this 3-year study of suppressive acyclovir for recurrent genital herpes , patients with more than six recurrences per year were randomized initially to 400 mg of acyclovir or placebo orally two times per day , with recurrences treated with 200 mg of acyclovir five times per day for 5 days . in the second year of the study , all patients received acyclovir as a daily suppressive or intermittent acute therapy ; in the third year , all received daily acyclovir . among 525 patients completing 3 study years , 289 received 3 years of suppressive therapy and 236 received 1 year of acute therapy followed by 2 years of suppressive therapy . of those who completed the third year , 61 % were recurrence free that year ; 25 % of the suppressive therapy-only group were recurrence free for all 3 years . the annual recurrence rate dropped from more than 12 recurrences per year at baseline to 1.0 ( suppressive therapy ) and 1.4 ( acute and suppressive therapy ) recurrences during the third year . no significant toxic effects were detected . daily suppressive acyclovir therapy was effective and well tolerated . 
occlusion of umbilical artery in acardiac , acephalic twin . in the acardiac , acephalic twin malformation the normal co-twin is put at risk because of the extra cardiac work-load . surgical procedures may be hazardous to the mother . we describe a novel approach -- the insertion of a helical metal coil to induce thrombosis in the umbilical artery of the acardiac twin -- which immediately interrupted flow . the co-twin was delivered at 39 weeks and his neonatal course has been normal . 
the robustness of an empirically derived taxonomy of chronic pain patients . there is currently no classification system for chronic pain patients that has achieved consensus . the lack of a classification that is used consistently across settings has impaired advance of knowledge and treatment of chronic pain patients . recently , an empirically derived multivariate classification system , the multiaxial assessment of pain ( map ) patients , has been developed . in this paper , the generalizability of the map system was evaluated by contrasting the map classification of 3 common but diverse chronic pain syndromes , namely , low back pain , headache , and temporomandibular disorders . the results indicate that although the proportion of patients classified into the 3 subgroups of the map taxonomy differ , the profiles based on the pattern of interrelationship among the assessment scales were remarkably similar . these data suggest that the psychosocial and behavioral responses associated with chronic pain are common to diverse samples of pain patients despite differences in demographic characteristics and medical diagnosis . the implications of these results for research and clinical practice are discussed . the potential utility of a polydiagnostic approach using more traditional medically based classifications such as proposed by the iasp ( merskey , h. , pain , suppl . 3 ( 1986 ) s1-s225 ) complemented by classification based on the map psychosocial-behaviorally based taxonomy are examined . 
litigation and employment status : effects on patients with chronic pain . in order to study the effects of compensation and litigation , 201 chronic pain patients were selected from a sample of 444 : 99 were working , 15 were working and litigating , 53 were receiving worker 's compensation , and 34 were receiving worker 's compensation and litigating . employment ( working vs. worker 's compensation ) and litigation status ( litigating vs. not litigating ) were analyzed in a 2 x 2 factorial design with measures of pain , disability , psychological distress , and selected demographics as dependent variables . compared to worker 's compensation patients , working patients reported significantly less disability ( down-time , days spent in bed , interference of pain in daily activities ) and pain of a longer duration . compared to litigating patients , non-litigating patients reported less pain ( on the mcgill pain questionnaire ) and less disability ( stopping activity , interference of pain in daily activities ) . on two measures of psychological distress ( depression , anxiety ) , there were significant interactions : worker 's compensation patients who were litigating reported less distress than non-litigants , while working patients who were litigating reported more distress than non-litigants . the results indicate clear differences in self-reports of disability associated with both employment and litigation status . they also suggest that litigation may function as a coping response for patients who are distressed by the adversarial nature of the worker 's compensation system . limitations of the study as well as suggestions for further research also are discussed . 
neglected factors in chronic pain treatment outcome studies -- referral patterns , failure to enter treatment , and attrition . an increasing number of chronic pain treatment outcome studies have appeared in the literature . in general , these studies support the efficacy of multidisciplinary pain programs , as well as specific treatment modalities such as biofeedback and relaxation . reviews of this literature have tended to be cautiously optimistic . some concerns , however , have been raised about the methodological adequacy of these studies , particularly in terms of the lack of control groups , the brief duration of follow-up periods , and the vague criteria used for establishing the success of the therapeutic interventions . other factors that mitigate conclusions regarding the generalizability of the favorable results reported need to be considered . in this paper 3 rarely discussed topics that are implicit within most treatment outcome studies and that need to be given greater attention are examined . these topics include : ( 1 ) referral patterns to pain clinics ( who are referred to pain clinics , when , and how representative is the referred sample ? ) ; ( 2 ) failure to enter treatment ( e.g. , exclusion criteria , lack of available financial support to cover the cost of treatment , patient 's refusal to accept recommendations ) , and consequently , the representativeness of the treated sample ; and ( 3 ) patient 's attrition . in this paper we discuss each of these factors as they underscore important qualifications that have to be made in evaluating treatment outcome studies . 
decreased local toxicity with subcutaneous diamorphine ( heroin ) : a preliminary report . we report the cases of 5 patients who developed severe local toxicity during the subcutaneous administration of morphine sulphate and hydromorphone hydrochloride . all patients required site changes more frequently than once every 24 h due to redness , swelling , or pain while receiving morphine or hydromorphone . all patients showed prolongation in the duration of sites of infusion once an equianalgesic dose of diamorphine hydrochloride ( heroin ) was started . no change in pain control or systemic toxicity was detected with diamorphine . these findings suggest that diamorphine could be a useful alternative for patients who develop severe toxicity to subcutaneous morphine or hydromorphone . 
opiates suppress carrageenan-induced edema and hyperthermia at doses that inhibit hyperalgesia . this study determined whether opiates alter vascular components of inflammation ( hyperthermia , edema and plasma extravasation ) in addition to the suppression of hyperalgesia . rats were administered carrageenan into one hind paw and saline into the other hind paw , followed by i.p. injection of morphine ( 0.2-5 .0 mg/kg ) or saline at 60 min , and testing at 90 min after hind paw injections . morphine produced a dose-dependent reduction in carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia ( 17-53 % ) , hyperthermia ( 39-53 % ) and edema ( 24-36 % ) . morphine treatment did not alter the temperatures of the contralateral saline-injected paws , indicating that opiate suppression of hyperthermia was not confounded by alterations in systemic body temperature or blood flow . the opiate effects on inflammation were stereospecific since levorphanol ( 1 mg/kg ) , but not dextrorphan ( 1 mg/kg ) , suppressed carrageenan-evoked hyperalgesia , hyperthermia and edema . pre-treatment with naltrexone ( 1.5 mg/kg ) blocked the effects of a 5 mg/kg dose of morphine sulfate on hyperalgesia , hyperthermia and edema . in a separate study , i.v. injection of morphine sulfate ( 2 mg/kg ) reduced plasma extravasation by 41 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . morphine administration resulted in significantly greater increases in paw withdrawal latencies in the inflamed ( 38-139 % ) than the contralateral , saline-treated paws ( 4-19 % ) . the results indicate that opiates exert a moderate , though significant , reduction in the vascular signs of inflammation in addition to their reduction of hyperalgesia . the mechanisms for this vascular effect involve inhibition of both vasodilation ( as indicated by a decrease in hyperthermia ) and inhibition of vascular permeability . in addition , opiates exhibit enhanced antinociceptive effects in inflamed paws , even when compared to uninjured paws in the same animal . 
epidemiology of acute respiratory infections in young children from thailand . a prospective evaluation of the epidemiology and presentations of acute respiratory infections in children younger than 5 years of age admitted to children 's hospital bangkok ( 1988 to 1989 ) was supported by the world health organization . there were 226 patients with the inclusion criteria : 1 to 5 years of age ; duration of illness less than 2 weeks ; no prior antibiotic therapy ; and low socioeconomic status . the disease categories included : croup , 19 cases ; bronchiolitis , 60 cases ; and pneumonia , 147 cases . pathogens isolated were : respiratory syncytial virus ( 40 ) ; parainfluenza iii ( 1 ) ; influenza b ( 1 ) ; and adenovirus ( 1 ) ; bacterial infections were proved in 23 cases . no significant differences in clinical features between bacterial and viral pneumonia were found . interstitial radiographic patterns were more common in viral pneumonia whereas alveolar patterns were more common in bacterial pneumonia . however , 91 % of mixed radiographic patterns ( interstitial and alveolar ) in chest films were from viral pneumonia . 
outbreak of bacillus calmette-guerin-associated lymphadenitis and abscesses in jamaican children . an outbreak of axillary lymphadenitis and abscesses after bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) vaccination ( pasteur paris , batch n5122 ) occurred in 139 jamaican children between january and july , 1988 . the overall rate of this complication was 0.95 % . the attack rate was 1.92 % among the 0 - to 6-week age group and 0.6 % in the 7 - to 52-week age group . of 139 patients there were 77 males and 62 females and the mean age at presentation was 4 months . the mean size of the bcg scar , duration of healing and mantoux reaction size differed significantly in patients compared with those of control infants ( p less than 0.01 ) . mycobacterium bovis was isolated from 11 patients . immunologically index patients and controls differed significantly only with respect to t lymphocyte subpopulation percentages and concanavalin a stimulation indices . evaluation of the bcg vaccine did not reveal either increased potency or microbial contamination . we conclude that increased susceptibility to the pasteur strain of bcg might have contributed to the increased incidence of complications in these jamaican children and hence caution should be exercised in switching one vaccine for another as is often done in the developing countries . 
musculoskeletal abnormalities in a patient with juvenile hypothyroidism . abnormalities in growth and development are the most striking clinical features of juvenile acquired hypothyroidism . therefore , physicians should consider the diagnosis of hypothyroidism in any child with musculoskeletal growth dysfunction . drs kilpatrick and fincher describe a case demonstrating the severe and potentially irreversible effects of prolonged , untreated hypothyroidism . 
senescence of nickel-transformed cells by an x chromosome : possible epigenetic control . transfer of a normal chinese hamster x chromosome ( carried in a mouse a9 donor cell line ) to a nickel-transformed chinese hamster cell line with an xq chromosome deletion resulted in senescense of these previously immortal cells . at early passages of the a9/cx donor cells , the hamster x chromosome was highly active , inducing senescence in 100 % of the colonies obtained after its transfer into the nickel-transformed cells . however , senescence was reduced to 50 % when chinese hamster x chromosomes were transferred from later passage a9 cells . full senescing activity of the intact hamster x chromosome was restored by treatment of the donor mouse cells with 5-azacytidine , which induced demethylation of dna . these results suggest that a senescence gene or genes , which may be located on the chinese hamster x chromosome , can be regulated by dna methylation , and that escape from senescence and possibly loss of tumor suppressor gene activity can occur by epigenetic mechanisms . 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy : report of 82 cases . in our initial experience with 82 patients , laparoscopic cholecystectomy has shown numerous advantages over open cholecystectomy . both intraoperative blood loss and postoperative need for pain medication have been minimal . most patients were discharged within 24 to 36 hours and resumed normal activities within 3 to 5 days . the aesthetic aspect is also an obvious advantage , since the laparoscopic procedure avoids disfiguring abdominal scars . previous abdominal surgery is not a contraindication to attempting this procedure . based on our experience , laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be done safely on most patients who are candidates for open cholecystectomy , including the elderly , the obese , and those with acute gangrenous cholecystitis . 
infrainguinal revascularization for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . we studied the efficacy of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . the patency of 42 femoropopliteal and femorodistal bypasses , performed for limb salvage in 37 patients with end-stage renal disease , was assessed with doppler ultrasonography and dye tests . patency rates and limb salvage were determined by life-table analysis . average age was 45 years ( range , 28 to 61 years ) ; 23 of the 37 were men . twenty-three patients had diabetes mellitus , and 16 were smokers . bypass procedures were done in 32 instances while the patients were maintained with chronic hemodialysis and in five instances with peritoneal dialysis ; in five instances the patients had had successful renal transplantation . indications for revascularization included pain at rest , nonhealing ulcer , or distal gangrene . femoropopliteal bypass was done in 32 limbs ; 10 were more distal procedures . reversed saphenous vein was the conduit in 30 cases ; prosthetic material was used in the remainder . autogenous material was used in all distal bypasses . four patients required graft revision during the initial hospitalization , but none thereafter . two patients died within the operative period , nine within 18 months of operation . nine major operations were required . three-month cumulative graft patency was achieved in 41 cases and corresponding limb salvage in 33 cases ; 18-month patency was achieved in 34 cases and overall limb salvage in 33 cases . success of limb salvage most closely correlated with preoperative ankle-brachial ratio and level of bypass required . 
adenotonsillectomy in children with sickle cell disease . the pediatric patient with sickle cell disease risks having a vasoocclusive episode during adenotonsillectomy under general anesthesia . with proper patient selection and appropriate perioperative management , adenotonsillectomy can be accomplished safely in children with sickle cell disease . we review the management of 10 children with sickle hemoglobinopathies who had adenotonsillectomy . indications for surgery were recurrent streptococcal infections in four and obstructive sleep apnea in six of these children . no complications resulted from any of these procedures , and the mean length of postoperative hospitalization was 2.4 days . the principal feature of preoperative management was the transfusion of red blood cells to suppress the patient 's endogenous erythropoiesis and to reduce the concentration of sickle cell hemoglobin to less than 30 % . though a prospective , multi-institutional clinical trial will ultimately be required to settle the issue of the safest preoperative management of children with sickle cell disease , balancing the risks of transfusion-related complications against anesthesia-related complications , our experience supports the operative safety of hypertransfusion therapy in children with sickle cell disease . 
recurrent rhabdomyolysis in association with cocaine use . as the popularity of cocaine increases in our society , so does the frequency and variety of medical complications associated with its use . a growing number of cases have implicated cocaine use in the development of rhabdomyolysis and its complication , acute renal failure . we have reported the first case of recurrent rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure directly associated with cocaine use . although adulterants might cause muscle damage , we believe cocaine should be added to the list of drugs that are capable of producing rhabdomyolysis . 
necrotizing tracheobronchitis : complication of mechanical ventilation in an adult . a 51-year-old woman had localized interstitial pneumonia that rapidly progressed to involve all lung fields . after 9 days of conventional mechanical ventilation , pneumothorax developed in the presence of an obstruction of the right main bronchus . bronchoscopy and endobronchial biopsies revealed ntb involving the tracheobronchial tree distal to the tip of the endotracheal tube , with complete obstruction of the right main bronchus by hard , eschar-like material . tracheal mucosa proximal to the tip of the endotracheal tube was normal . subsequent bronchoscopy , 20 days later , showed marked resolution of ntb . though a frequent complication of mechanical ventilation in the neonate , ntb as a complication of conventional mechanical ventilation has not previously been recognized in an adult . necrotizing tracheobronchitis should be suspected in adults who have had mechanical ventilation and who are experiencing ventilatory difficulties , after routine problems have been treated or excluded . 
infarct of the conus medullaris simulating a spinal cord tumor : case report . a 71-year-old woman had the sudden onset of a neurogenic bladder and a stepwise increase in paraparesis that left her unable to stand or walk . magnetic resonance imaging showed what appeared to be a tumor in the conus medullaris . after laminectomy , the lesion was localized by ultrasound examination , and a biopsy was performed . the deficits remained unchanged postoperatively . microscopic examination of the biopsy specimen showed necrosis and pathologic changes consistent with infarction of the conus medullaris . an anomalous arterial supply of the conus medullaris is the most likely cause of this unusual problem . the patient gradually regained her ability to walk , but the neurogenic bladder persists . 
unfavorable outcome following early surgical repair of ruptured cerebral aneurysms -- a critical review of 238 patients . among 238 consecutive patients admitted early with ruptured cerebral aneurysms , surgical repair within 48-72 hours was feasible in 200 cases . unfavorable outcomes among the latter 200 patients are analyzed and discussed in this paper . preoperatively , 148 patients were in hunt and hess grades i-iii , 33 were in grade iv , and 19 in grade v. after clipping of the aneurysm , all patients received a regimen of topical intracisternal and intravenous/peroral medication with the calcium antagonist nimodipine . the overall rate of unfavorable outcomes was 25 % , ie , outcome with moderate or severe deficit or lethal outcome . the reasons for unfavorable outcomes among these 49 patients were the devastating effect of the bleed ( severe subarachnoid hemorrhage or additional intracerebral hemorrhage ) in 31 patients ( 15 % of the 200 patients ) , a surgical complication in 11 ( 5.5 % ) , preoperative rebleeding in three ( 1.5 % ) , delayed ischemia from vasospasm in one ( 0.5 % ) , and various others in three further patients ( 1.5 % ) . unfavorable outcome occurred in 11 % of patients with preoperative grades i-iii , in 52 % of patients with grade iv , and in 16 of 19 patients with grade v. among the 141 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage but not intracerebral or intraventricular hematoma , 16 made an unfavorable outcome , ie , 11 % versus 56 % among patients with intracerebral hematoma/intraventricular hematoma on preoperative computed tomography scan . the present data seem to speak in favor of early surgery . since half of the patients with intracerebral hematoma and poor outcome had suffered previous warning leaks , it appears to be a continuing challenge to diagnose warning leaks before a massive hemorrhage occurs . 
hepatocyte transplantation into the lung for treatment of acute hepatic failure in the rat . the lung was investigated as a matrix for transplanted hepatocytes in the rat model . surgically induced fulminant hepatic failure was successfully treated by injection of 5 to 7 x 10 ( 7 ) isolated hepatocytes into the pulmonary parenchyma in 86 % of the animals . no animal , however , survived injection of hepatocytes into the jugular vein . it was found that liver failure is a prerequisite for the intrapulmonary survival of hepatocytes . after regeneration of the native liver , the majority of hepatocytes are cleared away within 6 months . 
the painful shoulder : part ii . intrinsic disorders and impingement syndrome . intrinsic disorders that can cause shoulder pain include arthritis , gout , pseudogout and osteonecrosis . in its mildest form , impingement syndrome may cause only minimal discomfort . at its worst , impingement syndrome may lead to rotator cuff tear . bicipital tendinitis and rupture of the biceps tendon may also be associated with impingement . early rehabilitative intervention is important . physical therapy is directed toward restoring range of motion and muscle strength . 
relation between flow grade after thrombolytic therapy and the effect of angioplasty on left ventricular function : a prospective randomized trial . recent intervention trials during myocardial infarction demonstrated no benefit from emergency angioplasty after thrombolytic therapy when compared with either delayed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) or a conservative strategy . however , it is possible that subgroups of patients may benefit from early intervention with angioplasty . we performed a prospective randomized trial in patients with a patent infarct-related artery after thrombolytic therapy to determine whether initial flow grade is related to infarct-zone function and whether patients with ineffective reperfusion ( greater than 90 % stenosis or thrombolysis in myocardial infarction [ timi ] flow less than or equal to 2 ) might benefit from immediate ptca . thrombolytic therapy was administered to 170 patients at a mean of 2.1 + / - 0.5 hours after onset of myocardial infarction . a patent infarct-related artery that was suitable for angioplasty was present in 89 patients who comprised the study group ; after randomization , 47 of 50 patients with a patent infarct-related artery had successful emergency ptca 3.8 + / - 1.5 hours after onset of symptoms , and 39 were scheduled for delayed ( 18 to 48-hour ) ptca . reocclusion occurred before the scheduled ( delayed ) procedure in eight patients ( 20.5 % ) , and was symptomatic in six . infarct-region function ( by the centerline method ) measured initially , before discharge , and at 4 months was similar in both groups ; improvement was significant ( p less than 0.001 ) at discharge when compared with initial values with no further change at 4 months . however , patients with ineffective reperfusion had greater hypokinesia initially ( p less than 0.05 ) compared with those with effective reperfusion ( less than or equal to 90 % stenosis plus timi flow 3 ) . moreover , independent of the timing of ptca , improvement was greater before discharge in patients with ineffective reperfusion ( p less than 0.05 ) with a trend also evident at 4 months . importantly , 42 of 51 patients ( 82 % ) with a residual lumen less than 0.4 mm after thrombolysis had some improvement in function at discharge ; this compared with a previous study in which patients with a similar degree of stenosis ( without ptca ) had no improvement . moreover , reocclusion occurred before scheduled ( delayed ) ptca in 37 % of patients with greater than 90 % stenosis compared with only 5 % in those with less than or equal to 90 % stenosis ( p = 0.02 ) . thus flow grade is an important determinant of myocardial function in patients with a patent artery after thrombolytic therapy and is predictive both of improvement in wall motion after ptca and early reocclusion . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
acute complications of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for total occlusion . the incidence of major complications after percutaneous coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) of a totally occluded artery was assessed retrospectively . a total of 1649 ptca procedures were analyzed . after exclusion of procedures for acute myocardial infarction or total occlusion that resulted from restenosis , 90 patients were selected . forty-four patients ( 49 % ) had stable angina and 46 ( 51 % ) had unstable angina . the estimated duration of occlusion was 87 + / - 78 days in patients with stable angina , as compared with 10 + / - 8 days in patients with unstable angina ( p less than 0.001 ) . abrupt vessel closure during ptca occurred only in patients with unstable angina ( 0 % versus 17 % , p less than 0.05 ) . the major complication rate was 2.5 % in the stable angina group , and 20 % in unstable angina group ( p less than 0.01 ) . this rate was also significantly higher than the complication rate of 8 % observed in 442 procedures that were performed during the same period in patients with the unstable angina and nonocclusive stenosis ( p less than 0.01 ) . patients with unstable angina who undergo ptca of a totally occluded artery represent a subset of high risk for major complications . 
stunned myocardium and myocardial collagen damage : differential effects of single and repeated occlusions . it has been suggested that collagen loss and damage is responsible for the dysfunction seen in stunned myocardium . to test this hypothesis we compared collagen in canine hearts stunned by repeated occlusion with collagen in hearts stunned by a single occlusion . regional contractile function was equally depressed in both groups : segment shortening at 1 hour after reperfusion averaged 37 % + / - 9 % versus 32 % + / - 9 % of preocclusion values in repeated and single occlusion models , respectively . midmyocardial collagen content was not different in either single occlusion ( 10.5 % + / - 0.4 % ) or repeated occlusion models ( 9.5 % + / - 0.7 % ) when compared with nonischemic hearts ( 8.5 + / - 0.8 % ) . collagen damage , which was revealed with polarized light microscopy , was seen in 5 of 6 dogs after repeated occlusion but was not apparent after a single occlusion . thus although both models of stunned myocardium produce similar dysfunction , there was no apparent collagen loss . furthermore , collagen damage was only seen after repeated occlusion . therefore it appears unlikely that collagen damage is a primary mechanism of stunned myocardium . 
factors associated with recurrent myocardial infarction within one year after acute myocardial infarction . in a large population of patients ( n = 3666 ) who were discharged from the hospital after acute myocardial infarction and followed up for 1 year , factors associated with recurrent nonfatal ( n = 171 ) or fatal ( n = 74 ) infarction were identified . also , the effects of combining various end points ( recurrent nonfatal or fatal infarction and other cardiac death ) in multivariate analyses , a practice common in many small studies that evaluate the predictive-value of various treatments or special tests , was examined . in univariate analyses , patients with nonfatal recurrent infarction did not differ with respect to age or gender from infarct-free survivors , but they more often had a history of previous myocardial infarction , congestive heart failure , angina pectoris , and diabetes ; more severe pulmonary congestion was present on chest x-ray during the admission , and a non-q wave index infarction was more frequent . patients with either a fatal or nonfatal recurrent infarction had more angina pectoris during follow-up ( 55 % to 60 % ) compared with 27 % in event-free survivors and 31 % in patients who died of other cardiac causes in whom this factor could be assessed before death . in multivariate analyses , historical and clinical prognostic factors were ranked differently for fatal or nonfatal reinfarction and other cardiac causes of death ; angina pectoris at follow-up was highly related to recurrent infarction ( fatal or nonfatal ) , along with a history of diabetes , and a non-q wave index infarction . these factors were not independently related to other causes of cardiac death . 
effect of severe pulmonary hypertension on the calculation of mitral valve area in patients with mitral stenosis . we studied 50 consecutive patients with mitral valve stenosis ( ms ) by cardiac catheterization and doppler echocardiography to assess whether the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension affected the calculation of valve area by doppler pressure half-time method and by the gorlin formula using pulmonary capillary wedge pressure as an index of left atrial pressure . patients with severe mitral regurgitation were excluded . in patients with pulmonary artery systolic pressure ( pas ) less than 70 mm hg ( n = 33 ) , there was good correlation between the mitral valve area derived from doppler echocardiography and from cardiac catheterization ( r = 0.85 ) . however , in patients with pas greater than or equal to 70 mm hg ( n = 17 ) , this correlation was not as good ( r = 0.57 ) . in these 17 patients , the gorlin formula tended to underestimate the valve orifice area ( mean valve area 0.85 + / - 0.49 and 1.06 + / - 0.46 cm2 by catheterization and by doppler respectively , p = ns ) . direct measurement of the valve area by two-dimensional echocardiography was possible in 12 of the 17 patients and correlated well with doppler values ( r = 0.91 ) . hence in the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension , doppler pressure half-time estimation of mitral valve area is more accurate than is catheterization-derived valve area , using the wedge pressure and the gorlin formula . 
study of the influence of left bundle branch block on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram : a qualitative and quantitative analysis . to study the influence of left bundle branch block ( lbbb ) on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram ( saecg ) , quantitative and qualitative analyses of saecg parameters were undertaken in 48 patients with electrocardiographic evidence of intrinsic lbbb and in 39 patients with a " normal " surface qrs duration ( less than 120 msec ) who underwent right ventricular pacing-induced lbbb . we assumed pacing of the right ventricular apex to be a suitable model of this conduction defect . sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( smvt ) was inducible in 16 of 48 patients with intrinsic lbbb and in 23 of 39 patients with pacing-induced lbbb . utilizing a filter setting of 25 to 250 hz , late potentials were defined as a total filtered qrs duration greater than or equal to 120 msec , a root mean square voltage in the terminal 40 msec ( rms 40 ) of less than or equal to 25 microv , and the duration of signals less than 40 microv ( las 40 ) of greater than or equal to 38 msec . only rms 40 and las 40 criteria were used in patients with lbbb . prolongation of las 40 and fragmentation of signals in the terminal portion of the filtered qrs were characteristic of all patients with lbbb aberration . of those patients with intrinsic lbbb , the mean total filtered qrs duration , rms 40 , and las 40 for inducible and noninducible patients were significantly different ( 170 + / - 28 , 16 + / - 10 , 55 + / - 24 , and 153 + / - 18 msec , 25 + / - 10 microv , 33 + / - 16.9 msec ; p = 0.04 , 0.009 , and 0.007 , respectively ) . noninducible patients with a normal qrs duration demonstrated a 60 % decrement in the mean rms 40 value during pacing-induced lbbb . these changes resulted in a 59 % false positive incidence of late potentials during pacing-induced lbbb . this correlated with a similarly low mean rms 40 value in patients with intrinsic lbbb and no inducible smvt , hence giving rise to a false positive incidence of late potentials of 63 % . since " standard " rms 40 and las 40 criteria resulted in low specificity and positive predictive value , new parameters were selected and analyzed . the combination of rms 40 less than or equal to 17 microv plus las 40 greater than or equal to 55 msec yielded the best overall statistical result , with a sensitivity , specificity , and total predictive accuracy of 69 % , 81 % , and 77 % , respectively . in conclusion : ( 1 ) a reduction of rms 40 , prolongation of las 40 , and fragmentation of signals in the terminal portion of the filtered qrs are characteristics of lbbb . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
short-term variability of ventricular arrhythmia and rapid assessment of drug efficacy . statistical criteria for suppression and aggravation of ventricular arrhythmia were defined by means of 50 short-term drug tests performed in 24 patients . each patient 's spontaneous variability ( sv ) was evaluated by linear regression analysis of hour-to-hour changes in ectopy during 24 - to 48-hour holter monitoring . the response to a single oral dose of disopyramide , 300 mg , flecainide , 200 mg , and propafenone , 450 mg , was measured during a trial lasting 4 hours . lidocaine was administered intravenously in incremental doses of up to 4 mg/min and was evaluated over 3 hours . threshold values of ventricular arrhythmia corresponding to 95 % confidence limits were calculated from baseline recordings and were used to ascertain the likelihood of a true drug effect . the minimum decrease in hourly ectopy indicating arrhythmia suppression averaged 90.9 % , while an increase of at least 947 % was required for a proarrhythmic effect . when these efficacy criteria were applied , 16 of 50 short-term tests revealed no drug effect . in contrast , when a 70 % threshold derived from studies of daily variability was employed , only 7 of 50 trials were negative . thus individual determination of hourly arrhythmia variability yields more stringent criteria than extrapolation from day-to-day spontaneous variation . 
effect of hyperkalemia on experimental myocardial depression by verapamil . three patients with systemic hypotension and sinus bradycardia that were initially refractory to conventional therapy responded well to intravenous calcium administration . two-dimensional echocardiography revealed immediate reversal of severe left ventricular dysfunction after intravenous administration of calcium in two instances . common factors were hyperkalemia and verapamil therapy . this interaction was examined further by evaluation of contractility , heart rate , and arterial blood pressure in anesthetized dogs . controls ( n = 9 ) received saline infusion , and a second group ( n = 10 ) received saturated potassium chloride ( approximately 0.2 ml/min intravenously ) . in control dogs , administration of verapamil ( 1195 + / - 181 micrograms/kg intravenously ) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 113 + / - 7 mm hg to 74 + / - 5 mm hg , and heart rate from 147 + / - 9 beats/min to 86 + / - 11 beats/min . potassium chloride infusion alone increased blood [ k + ] from 3.4 + / - 0.1 to 6.2 + / - 0.2 meq/l , but was without hemodynamic effects . in hyperkalemic dogs , a significantly lower dose of verapamil ( 428 + / - 42 micrograms/kg intravenously ) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 102 + / - 8 mm hg to 36 + / - 4 mm hg , and heart rate from 150 + / - 5 beats/min to 104 + / - 15 beats/min . myocardial contractile function was examined with right ventricular isometric contractile force and left ventricular segment length changes . in normokalemic and hyperkalemic groups , contractility was decreased by verapamil . effects of verapamil on arterial pressure and contractility could be reversed significantly by administration of calcium , 0.4 meq/kg intravenously . the present results support the theory that the negative hemodynamic effects of verapamil may be exaggerated to a harmful degree by concomitant hyperkalemia . these adverse events may be reversed by calcium administration . 
prosthetic valves in children and adolescents . the purpose of this paper is to present the short - and long-term results of prosthetic valve replacement in children . during a 7-year period that ended in april 1985 , 186 children , ages 1 to 20 years , underwent valve replacement ; there were 55 ( 30 % ) aortic valve replacements , 95 ( 51 % ) mitral valve replacements , and 36 ( 19 % ) multiple valve replacements . ninety-four percent of the lesions were rheumatic in origin , 4 % were congenital , and 2 % were infectious . of 223 valves replaced , 175 ( 78 % ) were mechanical valves and 48 ( 22 % ) were heterografts ; the latter were in the mitral position in all but three patients . surgical mortality rates were 3.6 % , 4.2 % , and 19.4 % respectively for aortic valve , mitral valve , and multiple valve replacements . five-year actuarial survival was 91 % for aortic valve replacement , 82 % for mitral valve replacement and 60 % for multiple valve replacement . major events included reoperation in 34 ( with three deaths ) , progressive myocardial failure that led to death in 10 , sudden unexpected death in two , thromboembolic complications in 19 ( death in five ) , subacute bacterial endocarditis in five ( two deaths ) , and bleeding that required transfusion in two patients . five-year complication-free actuarial survival rates were 83 % for aortic valve replacement , 63 % for mitral valve replacement , and 57 % for multiple valve replacement . the respective five-year complication-free survival rates were 83 % , 48 % , and 43 % . significant morbidity and mortality rates are associated with valve replacement . therefore every effort should be made to preserve the native valve by plastic reparative procedures . when prosthetic replacement of mitral valve is contemplated , our data would suggest that heterografts should not be inserted in children 15 years of age or younger , although heterografts may be used in children over 15 years of age with the expectation of valve survival comparable to that of mechanical valves . when complications that are associated with anticoagulant therapy were reviewed , platelet inhibiting drugs seem quite satisfactory in patients with aortic valve replacement ; patients with mitral valve replacement seem to require warfarin therapy , and warfarin must be used in patients with multiple valve replacement to reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications . 
sports-related and non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in young adults . sports-related sudden cardiac deaths were compared with non-sports-related sudden cardiac death in individuals ( 14 to 40 years old ) who were autopsied from 1981 to 1988 at the maryland medical examiner 's office . thirty-four of 690 total cases of sudden cardiac death were sports-related , which represents 5 % of sudden cardiac death in this age group . causes of death were severe atherosclerosis ( nine ) , hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry ( eight ) , coronary artery anomalies ( four ) , idiopathic concentric left ventricular hypertrophy ( three ) , myocarditis ( two ) , arrhythmogenic right ventricle ( one ) , kawasaki disease ( one ) , and unknown ( six ) ; two of the cases with unknown causes had tunnel arteries . exercise-related deaths were more likely due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( p = 0.0007 ) compared with 102 age - , sex - , and race-matched controls in the non-exercise group ; there was no difference in the incidence of severe atherosclerosis ( p = 0.4 ) . the mean age of individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetry was less than that of those with severe atherosclerosis ( 24 vs 32 years , p = 0.03 ) . thus exercise precipitates sudden cardiac death in younger individuals with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . 
role of new antiplatelet agents as adjunctive therapies in thrombolysis . coronary thrombolysis is the treatment of choice for patients with acute q-wave myocardial infarcts who have no contraindications to such therapy . however , the time required for thrombolysis and the possibility of reocclusion of the infarct-related artery remain problematic . herein are described experimental animal studies and clinical evaluations in which attempts have been made to develop adjunctive therapies that , when coupled with available thrombolytic interventions , might shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent reocclusion . from the studies conducted to date , it is clear that a combined thromboxane synthesis inhibitor and receptor antagonist with a serotonin receptor antagonist and heparin shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion in experimental canine models with copper coil-induced coronary artery thrombi . a monoclonal antibody to the platelet glycoprotein iib/iiia receptor coupled with tissue plasminogen activator ( t-pa ) and heparin also shortens the time to thrombolysis and delays or prevents reocclusion in experimental canine models . thrombin inhibitors , including heparin and synthetic inhibitors , given with t-pa and aspirin , appear to shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion in experimental canine models . aspirin coupled with intravenous streptokinase reduces mortality in patients with presumed acute myocardial infarction , and a combination of heparin and t-pa results in infarct-artery patency more frequently than t-pa without heparin . data from these studies are encouraging with regard to the possibility of developing effective and relatively safe thrombolytic regimens that shorten the time to thrombolysis and delay or prevent coronary artery reocclusion . 
role of new anticoagulants as adjunctive therapy during thrombolysis . procoagulant activity may persist during coronary thrombolysis and result in either delay in the time to recanalization or recurrent thrombosis . although heparin and aspirin form the mainstay of current therapy , recurrent thrombosis occurs despite adjunctive heparin therapy during thrombolysis . newer agents that inhibit thrombin by antithrombin iii-independent mechanisms , or that inhibit earlier steps in the coagulation cascade , have been shown to be effective in the experimental preparation of coronary thrombolysis . because heparin-antithrombin iii is a relatively inefficient inhibitor of thrombin bound to fibrin , agents such as hirudin or small peptide inhibitors of the thrombin-active site appear to be more effective inhibitors of clot-associated thrombin activity . inhibition of early steps in the coagulation cascade with the inhibitor of tissue factor-factor viia complex , or with activated protein c , also appears to be an effective anticoagulant strategy . in experimental preparations all of these agents have shown superiority in preventing recurrent thrombosis compared with heparin , and in some cases they appear to accelerate the rate of clot lysis . 
adjunctive use of beta-adrenergic blockers , calcium antagonists and other therapies in coronary thrombolysis . the availability of thrombolytic agents for use in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction is an important step in the management of a common , often debilitating , and potentially lethal disorder . however , despite the proven benefits of coronary thrombolysis , the importance of adjunctive treatment modalities is being increasingly recognized . beta-adrenergic blockers , calcium antagonists , nitrates , magnesium , and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors each exert favorable cardiovascular properties that may offer additional benefits . clinical trials combining thrombolytic and adjunctive pharmacologic agents offer hope for further advances in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction . 
heparin as an adjunctive treatment after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction . the rationale for considering heparin therapy as an adjunct to thrombolytic treatment for patients with acute myocardial infarction is to prevent rethrombosis after successful thrombolysis . the risk of reocclusion is high immediately after thrombolysis because blood flowing through the newly opened coronary artery is exposed to thrombin bound to fibrin in the residual thrombus . clinical studies of patients with venous thrombosis and acute myocardial infarction indicate that there is a relation between the anticoagulant response to heparin and clinical efficacy and that the concept of a therapeutic heparin level is valid . subcutaneous doses of approximately 15,000 u twice a day fail to provide an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in the majority of patients , whereas intravenous administration of a bolus of 5,000 u followed by continuous infusion of 30,000 u per 24 hours produces an adequate anticoagulant response at 24 hours in approximately 80 % of patients . studies of patients with myocardial infarction who received streptokinase showed a significant beneficial effect on mortality when 12,500 u of heparin was administered subcutaneously 2 times per day . in contrast , the single largest study evaluating heparin 12,500 u administered subcutaneously 2 times per day as an adjunct to recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator ( rt-pa ) treatment did not show a beneficial effect on mortality . however , studies using full-dose intravenous heparin therapy demonstrated that heparin improves patency after coronary thrombolysis with rt-pa . 
regional cardiac adrenergic function using i-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine tomographic imaging after acute myocardial infarction . the effect of acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) on regional cardiac adrenergic function was studied in 27 patients mean + / - standard deviation 10 + / - 4 days after ami . regional adrenergic function was evaluated noninvasively with i-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine ( mibg ) using a dedicated 3-detector tomograph . four hours after its administration , there was reduced mibg uptake in the region of infarction , 0.38 + / - 0.31 counts/pixel/mci x 103 compared with 0.60 + / - 0.30 counts/pixel/mci x 103 and 0.92 + / - 0.35 counts/pixel/mci x 103 in the zones bordering and distant from the infarct area , respectively , p less than 0.001 . in all patients , the area of reduced mibg uptake after 4 hours was more extensive that the associated thallium-201 perfusion defect with defect scores of 52 + / - 22 and 23 + / - 18 % , respectively , p less than 0.001 . after anterior wall ami , the 4-hour mibg defect score was 70 + / - 13 % and the degree of mismatch between myocardial perfusion and mibg uptake was 30 + / - 9 % compared with 39 + / - 17 and 21 + / - 17 % after inferior ami , p less than 0.001 and p = 0.016 , respectively . the 4-hour mibg defect score correlated inversely with the predischarge left ventricular ejection fraction , r = -0.73 , p less than 0.001 . patients with ventricular arrhythmia of greater than or equal to 1 ventricular premature complexes per hour , paired ventricular premature complexes or ventricular tachycardia detected during the late hospital phase had higher 4-hour mibg defect scores , 62.5 + / - 15.0 % , than patients with no detectable complex ventricular ectopic activity and a ventricular premature complex frequency of less than 1 per hour , 44.6 + / - 23.4 % , p = 0.036 . 
insensitivity of noninvasive tests to detect coronary artery vasculopathy after heart transplant . obstructive coronary artery vasculopathy can be a major problem after cardiac transplant . the use of noninvasive tests to detect coronary artery vasculopathy was studied in 73 consecutive patients after heart transplant . angiographically or autopsy-proved coronary artery disease was noted in 19 consecutive patients ( 26 % ) followed prospectively for 2.5 + / - 1.3 years ( mean + / - standard deviation ) . patients underwent yearly surveillance echocardiographic , rest/exercise-gated wall motion , oral dipyridamole thallium , ambulatory electrocardiographic monitor and angiographic studies . positive test results were defined by decrease in ejection fraction , wall motion abnormality , failure to increase ejection fraction , lack of systolic blood pressure increase , and ischemic st changes at maximal exercise ( or on ambulatory monitor ) . wall motion abnormalities and depressed ejection fraction on echocardiography were also abnormal studies as were fixed or reversible perfusion defects on thallium scan . angiograms were considered positive when 50 % luminal narrowing was observed and autopsy coronary artery vasculopathy was defined as cross-sectional coronary obstruction greater than or equal to 70 % . no procedure that was examined proved to be a sensitive noninvasive detector of heart transplant coronary artery vasculopathy . all except ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring had positive predictive values less than 50 % . interestingly , of the techniques evaluated , echocardiography was most sensitive ( 53 % ) . the poor predictive ability of noninvasive testing in this population may be due to the fact that these tests are designed to detect effects of ischemia rather than coronary obstruction alone . use of these particular noninvasive modalities routinely after heart transplant to detect coronary artery vasculopathy should be reconsidered because of their low sensitivity and predictive value when used as a surveillance screen . 
hemodynamic and electrophysiologic evaluation of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy surviving cardiac arrest . hemodynamic and electrophysiologic studies were performed in 30 survivors of sudden cardiac arrest with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( hc ) to determine responsible factors . electrophysiologic abnormalities alone were present in 27 patients ( 90 % ) : sinus node dysfunction in 14 ( 47 % ) , delayed atrio-ventricular nodal conduction in 1 ( 3 % ) , abnormal his-purkinje conduction in 7 ( 23 % ) , an inducible atrial tachycardia in 7 ( 23 % ) , and inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia in 21 ( 70 % ) . sustained ventricular arrhythmia was polymorphic ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) in 18 patients ( 86 % ) , monomorphic vt in 2 patients ( 7 % ) and ventricular fibrillation in 1 patient ( 3 % ) . in 1 patient the arrhythmia recorded during an episode of cardiac arrest and induced at electrophysiologic study was polymorphic vt . vt was induced with less than or equal to 2 extra-stimuli in only 1 patient ( 3 % ) but with less than or equal to 3 extra-stimuli in 20 patients ( 97 % ) . potential causes of sudden cardiac arrest were found in all patients and were multiple in 13 patients ( 43 % ) . these were ( 1 ) ventricular electrical instability in 21 patients ( 70 % ) , ( 2 ) severe left ventricular outflow tract obstruction in 8 patients ( 27 % ) , ( 3 ) bradycardia in 5 patients ( 17 % ) , ( 4 ) myocardial ischemia associated with hypotension in 5 patients ( 17 % ) , and ( 5 ) atrial tachycardia resulting in hypotension in 4 patients ( 13 % ) . of the 21 patients with inducible sustained ventricular arrhythmia , 17 received an implantable defibrillator device and 4 were treated with antiarrhythmic drugs . seven patients underwent left ventricular septal myectomy . 
improved molecular diagnostics for ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency . since the cloning of the cdna for x-linked ornithine transcarbamylase ( otc ) in 1984 , diagnostic accuracy of otc deficiency for prenatal and carrier detection has been greatly improved by the use of linkage analysis . however , the use of rflp-based diagnosis is limited in this and in other new mutation diseases . here we report both the use of direct mutation detection by new pcr-based techniques and our experience with linkage-based diagnosis in 18 families . we have previously reported the use of chemical mismatch cleavage to detect mutations first in amplified mrna and then in genomic dna of patients . this technique has now been utilized for prenatal diagnosis . primers for specific amplification of otc exons 1 , 3 , 5 , 9 , and 10 have been developed and been employed to map deletions of the otc gene in two families . these primers also have been used to detect alterations in the taqi sites found in exons 1 , 3 , 5 , and 9 . four novel mutations of the otc gene leading to abolition of a taqi site in the otc cdna were discovered . one of these mutations is in exon 1 ; two lie in exon 3 ; and one is in exon 9 . in addition , we have used the pcr products as probes to identify the exon-specific bands seen on southern blots and to map the polymorphic bamhi and mspi sites , which are commonly used for linkage analysis . this information will facilitate the interpretation of altered band patterns seen in deletion cases and in cases of point mutations affecting restriction sites . utilization of the appropriate combination of these molecular techniques permitted accurate diagnostic evaluations in 17 of 18 families . 
genetic analysis of breast cancer in the cancer and steroid hormone study . the familial risk of breast cancer is investigated in a large population-based , case-control study conducted by the centers for disease control . the data set is based on 4,730 histologically confirmed breast cancer cases aged 20 to 54 years and on 4,688 controls who were frequency matched to cases on the basis of both geographic region and 5-year categories of age , and it includes family histories , obtained through interviews of cases and controls , of breast cancer in mothers and sisters . segregation analysis and goodness-of-fit tests of genetic models provide evidence for the existence of a rare autosomal dominant allele ( q = .0033 ) leading to increased susceptibility to breast cancer . the effect of genotype on the risk of breast cancer is shown to be a function of a woman 's age . although , compared with noncarriers , carriers of the allele appear to be at greater risk at all ages , the ratio of age-specific risks is greatest at young ages and declines steadily thereafter . the proportion of cases predicted to carry the allele is highest ( 36 % ) among cases aged 20-29 years . this proportion gradually decreases to 1 % among cases aged 80 years or older . the cumulative lifetime risk of breast cancer for women who carry the susceptibility allele is predicted to be high , approximately 92 % , while the cumulative lifetime risk for noncarriers is estimated to be approximately 10 % . 
high-resolution linkage mapping for susceptibility genes in human polygenic disease : insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and chromosome 11q . insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) has a complex pattern of genetic inheritance . in addition to genes mapping to the major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) , several lines of evidence point to the existence of other genetic susceptibility factors . recent studies of the nonobese diabetic mouse ( nod ) model of iddm have suggested the presence , on mouse chromosome 9 , of a susceptibility gene linked to the locus encoding the t-cell antigen , thy-1 . a region on human chromosome 11q is syntenic to this region on mouse chromosome 9 . we have used a set of polymorphic dna markers from chromosome 11q to investigate this region for linkage to a susceptibility gene in 81 multiplex diabetic pedigrees . the data were investigated by maximization of lod scores over genetic models and by multiple-locus affected-sib-pair analysis . we were able to exclude the presence of a susceptibility gene ( location scores less than -2 ) throughout greater than 90 % of the chromosome 11q homology region , under the assumption that the susceptibility factor would cause greater than 50 % of affected sib pairs to share two alleles identical by descent . theoretical estimates of the power to map susceptibility genes with a high-resolution map of linked markers in a candidate region were made , using hla as a model locus . this result illustrates the feasibility that iddm linkage studies using mapped sets of polymorphic dna markers have , both for other areas of the genome in iddm and for other polygenic diseases . the analytic approaches introduced here will be useful for affected-sib-pair studies of other complex phenotypes . 
demonstration of the genuine iso-12p character of the standard marker chromosome of testicular germ cell tumors and identification of further chromosome 12 aberrations by competitive in situ hybridization . the recently developed competitive in situ hybridization ( cish ) strategy was applied to the analysis of chromosome 12 aberrations in testicular germ cell tumors ( tgcts ) . dnas from two rodent-human somatic cell hybrids , containing either a normal chromosome 12 or the p arm of chromosome 12 as their unique human material , were used as probes . our results demonstrate a genuine iso-12p character of the standard marker chromosome in tgcts . moreover , variant markers were identified representing translocation products that also involve chromosome 12 . 
association of treacher collins syndrome and translocation 6p21 .31 / 16p13 .11 : exclusion of the locus from these candidate regions . treacher collins syndrome ( tcs ) is an autosomal dominant defect of craniofacial development which has not been chromosomally localized . we have identified a mother and two children who have tcs and also a balanced translocation t ( 6 ; 16 ) ( p21 .31 ; p13 .11 ) , which suggested the possibility that the tcs locus might be located at one of the translocation breakpoints . these were defined by in-situ hybridization as 6p21 .31 ( by using loci in the hla complex defined by the probes p45 .1 dp beta 003/hla-dpb 2 and prs5 .10 / hla class i chain ) and 16p13 .11 ( by using probes pachf1 .3.2 / d16s8 and vk45/d16s131 ) . pairwise and multipoint linkage analysis using localized chromosome 6 probes and chromosome 16 probes in 12 unrelated tcs families with multiple affected siblings excluded the tcs locus from proximity to both translocation breakpoints . these data were confirmed when a third affected child , who did not exhibit the translocation , was born to the mother . 
transduodenal sphincteroplasty with transampullary septectomy for stenosing papillitis . the papilla of vater and its sphincter of oddi , lying at the confluence of the bile and pancreatic ducts in man , have long been suspected as a source of upper abdominal pain . enlarging the opening of the transpapillary segment of the bile and major pancreatic ducts by using a transduodenal sphincteroplasty with transampullary septectomy resulted in death in a patient with a peripapillary diverticulum and pancreas divisum . eight-six patients followed for 1 to 10 years experienced a 75 % success rate . thirty-six patients had a marked stenosis of their duct of wirsung , suggesting that their pain was primarily from the pancreas . the remainder had either a generalized narrowing ( 40 patients ) or a normal ( 7 patients ) papilla . pain was not satisfactorily resolved in patients with an associated pancreas divisum , chronic pancreatitis , and recurrent episodes of acute pancreatitis with alcoholism . 
historical review of pancreaticoduodenectomy . the performance of pancreaticoduodenectomy by whipple in 1935 demonstrated that the operation was feasible technically and compatible with reasonable function after recovery . from the mid - to late 1940s until the last 10 years , the procedure was condemned by many because of its associated mortality and morbidity . for reasons that are not clear , the risk of pancreaticoduodenectomy in the last 10 years has fallen to less than 10 % and in several centers , less than 5 % . postoperative complications have been reduced and blood transfusions are unnecessary in an increasing number of patients . furthermore , a normal productive life without the need for medication and with no digestive disorder is expected . seventy-one percent of patients are able to return to their preoperative occupation . 
nutrient modulation of inflammatory and immune function . the metabolic response to injury occurs after a diverse group of surgical injuries including major surgical intervention , shock , infection , and sources of inflammation such as pancreatitis . the response is mediated by the macroendocrine system , the autonomic nervous system , and the cell-cell communication system . the clinical manifestations include now well-described clinical , physiologic , and metabolic characteristics . the approach of aggressive source control , invasive circulatory resuscitation , and nutrition/metabolic support has been associated with an overall reduction in morbidity and mortality . in those patients who do not respond to this approach , the disease process progresses to multiple organ failure syndrome with its associated high mortality . altering the route of feeding , preventing single nutrient and generalized nutrient deficiency , and reducing nosocomial infections with selective gut decontamination have not significantly altered the course or outcome of the disease process in this latter group of patients with persistent hypermetabolism . the available data support the position that this persistent hypermetabolism represents abnormal metabolic regulation resulting in persistence of the inflammatory response with associated suppression of the immune defenses . a number of research approaches are being taken to understand and modulate this abnormal state of regulation . because of the role of specific nutrients in these regulatory processes , beyond their role in classic nutrition support , nutrients such as arginine n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids , and rna are being evaluated for their ability to modulate inflammation and to improve immune function . preliminary results are encouraging . 
new approaches to the diagnosis , prevention , and treatment of cytomegalovirus infection after transplantation . infection occurring after solid organ transplantation continues to exert a considerable detrimental effect upon patient and allograft survival . while the search for better targeted immunosuppressive regimens continues , we must seek to improve our ability to both diagnose and treat those infections that do occur after transplantation . viral infections in general , and cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infections in particular , represent an area in which substantial progress is being made . improvement in diagnostic modalities has allowed more rapid and precise identification of cmv infection and disease , and the use of antiviral agents that possess activity against cmv has allowed both prophylaxis and treatment of this frequently life-threatening disease . the prophylactic use of presently available agents in combination and the development of less toxic , more potent anti-cmv agents should serve to further lessen the impact of cmv disease upon the field of solid organ transplantation . 
vascular lesions of the intestines . this article reviews the pathology , pathophysiology , diagnosis , and treatment of vascular lesions of the intestine as a cause of gastrointestinal bleeding . in addition , a modified system for classifying such lesions , based on the author 's personal experience with such lesions , is presented . 
bacterial overgrowth and intestinal atrophy in the etiology of gut barrier failure in the rat . bacterial translocation occurs in animal models of shock , trauma , sepsis , and parenteral or elemental enteral alimentation . bowel atrophy and cecal bacterial overgrowth have both been implicated in the pathophysiology of bacterial translocation in many of these models . to further define the etiology of bacterial translocation resulting from dietary manipulations , rats were fed a elemental/defined-formula diet ( dfd ) for 2 weeks ad libitum and then randomized to either intestinal decontamination with a nonabsorbable antibiotic ( neomycin ) or no antibiotic treatment . neomycin treatment significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) reduced the incidence of bacterial translocation after dfd , in association with a significant reduction in the number of cecal gram-negative bacteria . neither loss of bowel mass after dfd nor bowel composition was affected by oral neomycin . bacterial translocation after dfd would thus appear to be the result of cecal bacterial overgrowth rather than a loss of a physical intestinal barrier due to atrophy . 
gastro-oesophageal reflux during elective laparoscopy . an oesophageal ph electrode was used to record gastro-oesophageal reflux in 73 women who had elective laparoscopy for various gynaecological procedures . no refluxes were recorded during the 63 procedures from which results could be analysed ; the upper 95 % confidence limit from this observation is 3 in 63 ( 4.8 % ) . two of the excluded women refluxed during episodes of hiccough that occurred shortly after induction of anaesthesia . tracheal intubation may be required during laparoscopy , although the need to protect against the possibility of aspiration of gastric contents may not be a valid reason unless , with the same logic , it is suggested that all patients who hiccough should be intubated . 
arterial oxygen saturation during induction of anaesthesia three groups of 10 asa 1 patients were studied to determine the incidence of hypoxaemia ( oxygen saturation less than or equal to 90 % ) using pulse oximetry during induction of ' mask ' anaesthesia , and whether simple oxygenation techniques could prevent its occurrence . we also surveyed all anaesthetists in three major hospitals to ascertain their techniques for this method of anaesthesia . anaesthesia was induced in all patients with thiopentone and maintained with nitrous oxide and isoflurane . the first group received 33 % oxygen in nitrous oxide as carrier gases , a second group a few normal breaths of 100 % oxygen during thiopentone administration followed by 33 % oxygen in nitrous oxide , while a third group received 100 % oxygen after loss of eyelash reflex until spontaneous breathing was established . no patient received positive pressure ventilation before spontaneous breathing was established . six of the 10 patients in the first group became hypoxaemic compared to none in the second group , and three patients became hypoxaemic in the third group . thirty-seven percent of anaesthetists who responded to the survey either did not apply positive pressure ventilation before establishment of spontaneous breathing , or only did so if apnoea was prolonged . only one anaesthetist fully pre-oxygenated patients lungs . we conclude that to avoid the likely occurrence of hypoxaemia during induction of mask anaesthesia , a minimum of a few breaths pre-oxygenation is necessary . 
a randomised double-blind study of interpleural analgesia after cholecystectomy . continuous interpleural analgesia provided by 4 hourly injections of 20 ml bupivacaine 0.5 % with adrenaline 5 micrograms/ml was compared with placebo in a randomised , double-blind study after cholecystectomy . all patients self-administered intravenous morphine using a patient-controlled analgesia device . there was a highly significant difference in mean morphine consumption between the groups ( 72 mg as compared with 22 mg ) . visual analogue pain scores tended to be lower in the bupivacaine group throughout and this was significant at 2 hours . respiratory function measurements were not significantly different between the groups . the mean peak venous plasma bupivacaine concentration after the sixth dose was 3.03 micrograms/ml and no symptoms suggestive of local anaesthetic toxicity occurred . it is concluded that this regimen can provide effective and continuous analgesia after cholecystectomy and that combined administration of interpleural bupivacaine and systemic morphine is more effective than morphine alone in the immediate postoperative period . the doses of bupivacaine required for optimal use of the technique lead to significant total plasma bupivacaine concentrations within 24 hours . 
aspiration pneumonia and the laryngeal mask airway a case of aspiration pneumonia is reported after the use of a laryngeal mask airway in a young woman undergoing an elective cholecystectomy . the case illustrates the hazards of regurgitation with the laryngeal mask airway and the need for further evaluation when used with controlled mechanical ventilation . 
severe anaphylactoid reaction to hydroxyethyl starch . a case is presented of a severe anaphylactoid reaction to hydroxyethyl starch solution that occurred peri-operatively and required extended intensive management of the resultant bronchospasm and hypotension . subsequent intradermal injection of hetastarch produced a delayed positive response , suggestive of a complement-mediated mechanism . 
pregnancy associated with gorlin 's syndrome . a pregnant woman with gorlin 's syndrome presented for the removal of malignant ovarian tumours . the main problem encountered by the anaesthetists was an unexpected increase in arterial blood pressure . this was most probably associated with surgical manipulation of the ovaries with an increase in prorenin/renin production . 
atlanto-axial subluxation in down 's syndrome . a case of atlanto-axial subluxation in a patient with down 's syndrome is described . the gradual deterioration in the patient 's locomotor ability caused a delay in diagnosis . patterns of presentation of this condition are discussed . 
patients ' expectations of patient-controlled analgesia . patient-controlled analgesia is an increasingly popular method of postoperative pain relief . however , patients often worry about new therapies . eighty asa 1 and 2 patients aged 18-65 years were asked to list the advantages and disadvantages of using patient-controlled analgesia . the most important advantage as perceived by patients was the reduced time spent by nurses in giving medication , but there was concern that direct personal contact would also be lessened . preservation of self control , autonomy , rapid onset of analgesia , ability to titrate analgesia and lack of injections were seen as an advantage . addiction and machine faults were seen as minimal problems . preservation of patient-nurse contact is of great importance to ensure success of postoperative analgesia . 
patient-controlled analgesia in children . we report our experience in introducing patient-controlled analgesia at the royal hospital for sick children , glasgow . twenty-five children used the technique after orthopaedic or general surgery using the graseby system . the pump was loaded with 1 mg/kg morphine sulphate in 50 ml . a bolus dose of 0.02 mg/kg ( 1 ml ) and a lockout interval of 10 minutes were the initial settings . the dose used , pain and sedation scores , respiratory rate and arterial oxygen saturation were recorded . ages ranged from 5-15 years ( mean 9.6 ) and the method was used for a mean of 48 hours after operation . morphine requirements averaged 26 ( micrograms/kg ) / hour ( sd 10.6 ) . pain control was good and sedation minimal . adverse effects were few and minor . education of patients , parents and nurses is essential for its success and safety . the technique is an effective and safe means of providing good quality analgesia in school age children . 
clinical efficacy of oral-transdermal clonidine combinations during the perioperative period . in an attempt to maintain stable levels of an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist throughout the perioperative period , two different oral-transdermal clonidine dosage regimens were administered according to a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study in patients undergoing abdominal surgery . we determined the clinical efficacy of a high - and a low-dose clonidine regimen on sedation , hemodynamic parameters , anesthesia , and analgesia . the low-dose clonidine group of patients ( n = 14 ) received a 7-cm2 clonidine transdermal patch ( catapres-tts # 2 ) , which was supplemented with oral doses of clonidine approximately 3 micrograms.kg-1 on the evening prior to surgery and on the morning of surgery . the high-dose clonidine group ( n = 14 ) received a 10.5-cm2 clonidine transdermal patch ( catapres-tts # 3 ) with oral clonidine approximately 4.5 micrograms.kg-1 at bedtime and 6.0 micrograms.kg-1 on the morning of surgery . placebo-treated ( control ) patients received the same occlusive patch without active ingredient and oral placebo tablets at bedtime and on the morning of surgery . preanesthetic medication included midazolam 50 micrograms.kg-1 intramuscularly ( im ) . anesthesia was induced with alfentanil 30 micrograms.kg-1 intravenously ( iv ) , thiopental 3 mg.kg-1 iv , and vecuronium 0.1 mg.kg-1 iv , and was maintained with 70 % nitrous oxide in oxygen and a continuous infusion of alfentanil 0.5 microgram.kg-1 . min-1 . isoflurane was added when the blood pressure exceeded 110 % of the patient 's prestudy value . for pain relief postoperatively , the patients received morphine , 1-2-mg iv boluses , via a patient-controlled analgesia pump . the low-dose clonidine patient group had mean plasma clonidine concentrations that varied from 1.47 ng.ml-1 ( preoperative ) to 1.32 ng.ml-1 ( postoperative day 2 ) . 
beneficial effect of upper thoracic epidural anesthesia in experimental hemorrhagic shock in dogs : influence of circulating catecholamines . the question as to whether reduction of plasma catecholamine concentration contributes to the beneficial effects of upper thoracic epidural anesthesia on survival during hemorrhagic shock was examined . twenty-six dogs were anesthetized with halothane and nitrous oxide , and blood was withdrawn to reduce the mean arterial blood pressure ( map ) to 40 mmhg . the 12 dogs in group a received both upper thoracic epidural anesthesia before the hemorrhage and intravenous infusion of epinephrine ( 450 ng.kg-1 . min-1 ) and norepinephrine ( 150 ng.kg-1 . min-1 ) during hemorrhage . the 14 dogs in group b received none of these . at 20 min after the start of the bleeding , plasma catecholamine concentrations were increased in both groups more than ten-fold . there were no significant intergroup differences with respect to these concentrations at any point during the experimental period . during the 100-min period of hemorrhage , 1 of the 12 animals in group a and 10 of the 14 in group b died . a significant difference in survival was seen between the two groups over the 100-min hypotensive period ( p less than 0.01 by the generalized wilcoxon test ) . these results suggest that the survival benefit of upper thoracic epidural anesthesia can not be explained simply by differences in the level of catecholamines in the plasma , and that perhaps differences in the level of catecholamines at the nerve endings or other factors may be more important . 
mechanisms of gas-exchange impairment in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis . to investigate the mechanisms of pulmonary gas-exchange impairment in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) and to evaluate their potential relationship to the co diffusing capacity ( dlco ) , we studied 15 patients with ipf ( mean dlco , 52 % of predicted ) at rest ( breathing room air and pure o2 ) and during exercise . we measured pulmonary hemodynamics and respiratory gas-exchange variables , and we separated the ventilation-perfusion ( vaq ) mismatching and o2 diffusion limitation components of arterial hypoxemia using the multiple inert gas elimination technique . at rest va/q mismatching was moderate ( 2 to 4 % of cardiac output perfusing poorly or unventilated lung units ) , and 19 % of aapo2 was due to o2 diffusion limitation . during exercise va/q mismatch did not worsen but the diffusion component of arterial hypoxemia increased markedly ( 40 % aapo2 , p less than 0.005 ) . we observed that those patients with higher pulmonary vascular tone ( more release of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction ) showed less pulmonary hypertension during exercise ( p less than 0.05 ) , less va/q mismatching [ at rest ( p less than 0.005 ) and during exercise ( p less than 0.0025 ) ] , and higher arterial po2 during exercise ( p = 0.01 ) . we also found that dlco corrected for alveolar volume ( kco ) correlated with the mechanisms of hypoxemia during exercise [ va/q mismatching ( p less than 0.025 ) and o2 diffusion limitation ( p less than 0.05 ) ] and with the increase in pulmonary vascular resistance elicited by exercise ( p less than 0.005 ) . in conclusion , we showed that the abnormalities of the pulmonary vasculature are key to modulate gas exchange in ipf , especially during exercise . 
a controlled clinical comparison of 6 and 8 months of antituberculosis chemotherapy in the treatment of patients with silicotuberculosis in hong kong . hong kong chest service/tuberculosis research centre , madras/british medical research council . patients with silicotuberculosis have been reported to respond poorly to antituberculosis chemotherapy . therefore , in a study in hong kong , 240 chinese male patients with both silicosis and pulmonary tuberculosis were all prescribed treatment three times weekly with streptomycin , isoniazid , rifampin , and pyrazinamide , allocated at random to be given for a total duration of either 6 ( m6 regimen ) or 8 months ( m8 regimen ) in a concurrent comparison . those with a history of previous antituberculosis chemotherapy received ethambutol as well for the first 3 months . the intake in the m6 regimen was terminated when preliminary results showed that it was inadequate , and a further 53 patients were assigned to the m8 series . of 91 assessable patients in the concurrent comparison with susceptible strains pretreatment , 44 % were culture negative at 1 month , 80 % at 2 months , and 98 % at 3 months , and 1 had an unfavorable bacteriologic response during chemotherapy . during 3 yr of assessment , bacteriologic relapse after chemotherapy occurred in 22 % of the m6 compared with 7 % of the m8 patients ( p less than 0.025 , log-rank test ) . inadequate chemotherapy was received by 12 % of the 240 patients in the concurrent comparison because of default and by 22 % because of adverse effects , but by 3 yr 92 % of patients with susceptible strains pretreatment in each series had a favorable status following retreatment for relapse or for initially inadequate chemotherapy when required . the results show that patients with silicosis require at least 8 months of treatment . 
initial airway function is a risk factor for recurrent wheezing respiratory illnesses during the first three years of life . group health medical associates . we recently reported a significant relationship between lung function measured prior to any lower respiratory tract illness and subsequent wheezing illnesses during the first year of life ( n engl j med 1988 ; 319:1112 -7 ) . follow-up has continued for this group of infants during the second and third years of life . when compared with never wheezers , infants who wheezed during the first year of life and had at least one additional lower respiratory illness had 22 % lower initial levels of an indirect index of airway conductance derived from the shape of tidal breathing curves ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) , 22 % lower respiratory conductance ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) , 25 % lower maximal flows at the end-expiratory point ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) , and 10 % lower functional residual capacity ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) . infants who wheezed only once during the first 3 yr of life or who started wheezing during the second year of life had normal tidal breathing curves but significantly lower maximal expiratory flows ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) . their functional residual capacity was also lower than that of never wheezers ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) . we conclude that diminished initial airway function may be a predisposing factor for recurrent wheezing respiratory illnesses starting in the first year of life . infants who will have only one wheezing respiratory illness or who will start wheezing after the first year of life seem to have lower levels for some but not for all lung function tests performed in this study . 
airways inflammation in nocturnal asthma . nocturnal asthma is a frequent problem , but the mechanism is unclear . we investigated the possibility that airways inflammation occurred during the night . bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was analyzed in asthmatic patients with ( n = 7 ) and without nocturnal asthma ( n = 7 ) at 1600 and 0400 h. the nocturnal asthma group had an increase in the total leukocyte count ( 24.0 + / - 7.0 to 41.1 + / - 9.9 x 10 ( 4 ) cells/ml , p less than 0.05 ) , neutrophils ( 1.1 + / - 0.6 to 3.7 + / - 1.5 x 10 ( 4 ) cells/ml , p less than 0.05 ) , and eosinophils ( 0.5 + / - 0.1 to 1.7 + / - 0.7 x 10 ( 4 ) cells/ml , p less than 0.05 ) from 1600 to 0400 h. cellular components for the non-nocturnal asthma group did not change . between groups , the 1600-h cells were similar . at 0400 h the nocturnal asthma group had significantly higher total leukocyte , neutrophil , eosinophil , lymphocyte , and epithelial cell counts . for all subjects , the overnight fall in peak expiratory flow rates was correlated to the change in neutrophils ( r = 0.54 , p less than 0.05 ) and eosinophils ( r = 0.77 , p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that the nocturnal worsening of asthma has an associated cellular inflammatory response that is not seen in patients without overnight decrements in lung function . this inflammatory response together with epithelial damage may be important factors in the etiology of nocturnal asthma . 
complement activation is a secondary rather than a causative factor in rabbit pulmonary artery ischemia/reperfusion injury . we have previously demonstrated that reperfusion of a rabbit lung in vivo after 24 h of unilateral pulmonary artery occlusion results in edema , transient leukopenia , and intravascular leukocyte aggregation . we hypothesized that complement was activated by reperfusion and that this in turn contributed to lung injury . in the preliminary phase of the study , we found that ischemia followed by reperfusion resulted in a drop in c3 to 15 + / - 10 % ( mean + / - sem ) of the prereperfusion value as compared with no change in a group of control animals that had undergone an identical thoracotomy but without pulmonary artery occlusion and reperfusion ( p less than 0.05 ) . we then studied three groups of animals to determine if complement depletion with cobra venom factor ( cvf ) prior to ischemia and reperfusion would prevent the injury . rabbits treated with cvf but without occlusion and reperfusion did not develop significant lung edema , with left and right lung wet/dry ratios of 5.32 + / - 0.11 and 5.26 + / - 0.12 , respectively . for rabbits that were not treated with cvf but underwent ischemia and reperfusion , the comparable numbers were 6.15 + / - 0.36 and 5.19 + / - 0.32 ( p less than 0.05 for right versus left ) . for cvf-treated rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion , the right/left difference persisted ( 6.77 + / - 0.48 versus 5.35 + / - 0.14 , p less than 0.01 ) . immunocytochemistry documented c3 deposition in non-cvf rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion but not in cvf-treated rabbits . we conclude that ischemia/reperfusion of the lung results in complement activation , but it is not a complement-dependent injury . 
bronchoalveolar lavage analysis in wegener 's granulomatosis . a method to study disease pathogenesis . a prospective analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) in 13 patients with wegener 's granulomatosis ( wg ) , 20 disease control subjects with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) , and 24 normal control subjects was conducted to ( 1 ) evaluate the quality of the alveolar inflammatory response associated with active wg ; ( 2 ) determine whether antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody ( anca ) is present in alveolar fluid and produced in the lungs of patients with wg ; and ( 3 ) determine whether inhaled particles or infectious agents may play an etiologic role in wg . bal in untreated active wg had a marked increase in neutrophils ( mean = 42 % of total wbc count ) , and usually in eosinophils ( mean = 4 % ) compared with that in normal control subjects ( 1.6 % neutrophils , 0 % eosinophils ) , and untreated wg in remission ( 5.9 % neutrophils , 0 % eosinophils ) . disease control subjects with ipf , a process known to be associated with neutrophilic alveolitis , had an increased population of neutrophils ( 15.4 % ) and eosinophils ( 2.7 % ) in bal . leukocyte remnants , as well as intact leukocytes , could be identified within bal macrophages in the patients with wg and ipf , and rarely in the normal control subjects . normal subjects and control patients with ipf were all negative for anca in serum , whereas anca was found in serum and bal in all patients with active wg who had generalized disease . protein analysis of bal revealed a disproportionate increase in the igg to albumin ration compared with serum values ( igg index ) in patients with active untreated disease . the increase in the igg index suggests that igg with anca reactivity is produced by pulmonary lymphoid tissue . an infectious agent in bal was not identified by any of the techniques applied in this study . 
cellular and molecular basis of the asbestos-related diseases . asbestosis is an inflammatory and fibrotic process of the alveolar structures mediated , at least in part , by cytokines released by " activated " alveolar macrophages . the process of phagocytosis and " activation " of alveolar macrophages is poorly understood . are all macrophages activated or only subpopulations ? which cytokines are up-regulated ? how does the local milieu modulate profibrotic and antifibrotic mediators ? is protein release accompanied by up-regulation of gene transcription ? is there an ordered sequence of cytokine activity ? what roles do neutrophils and lymphocytes play ? how can disease progression best be quantified absent further exposure ? answers to these questions are important to direct rational strategies at interdicting the fibrotic process . the question of cancer and asbestos is more vexing . the processes of inflammation , fibrosis , and carcinogenesis appear to be closely intertwined . for example , proto-oncogenes such as c-sis ( pdgf b-chain ) are up-regulated in activated alveolar macrophages from fibrotic lungs ; these and possibly others may play an important role in asbestos carcinogenesis . second , asbestos can transfect dna into cells . furthermore , dna can adhere to asbestos fibers , and these fibers are capable of direct transmigration into cells . the questions of the mechanisms of cigarette smoke cocarcinogenicity and latency remain . lastly , if the bronchial epithelium is highly metaplastic throughout from cigarette smoking , what triggers a single ( or several ) nidus of cells to transform into carcinoma ? malignant mesothelioma poses the most challenging questions because of association with brief asbestos exposure by history . mesothelial cells are susceptible to minute environmental manipulations , and changes occur after exposure to all fiber types . yet epidemiologic studies point toward long amphiboles as having greater mesothelioma risk . to test this hypothesis , experimental data must be generated differentiating tumorigenesis risk from short , chrysotile fibers that can migrate to the parietal pleura from the associations of long amphiboles persisting in lung tissue . despite the future decreasing numbers of clinical cases of asbestos-related disease , solving the important mechanistic questions remaining will contribute significantly to our understanding of fibrosis and cancer . 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis versus invasive pulmonary aspergillosis : two cases with unusual pathologic findings and review of the literature . two brothers simultaneously exposed to moldy hay , who developed differing forms of aspergillus-related lung disease , are presented . patient 1 developed a true case of hypersensitivity lung disease , whereas his brother developed invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage eosinophilia and unusual pathologic features including tissue eosinophilia . the possible overlap between hypersensitivity pneumonitis and invasive aspergillosis in the immunocompetent host is discussed . 
human immunodeficiency virus-associated eosinophilic folliculitis . a unique dermatosis associated with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection . we studied 13 patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and a chronic pruritic folliculitis that was unresponsive to systemic treatment with bactericidal anti-staphylococcal antibiotics . the skin eruption was characterized by multiple urticarial follicular papules scattered on the trunk ( 100 % ) , the head and neck ( 85 % ) , and the proximal aspect of the extremities ( 62 % ) . absolute peripheral eosinophil counts were increased in six of 13 patients ; a relative peripheral eosinophilia was present in 10 of 13 patients . serum ige levels were elevated in all seven patients tested ( range , 88 to 9050 iu ) . histopathologic features included a folliculitis with eosinophils . pathogenic bacteria were not consistently found by routine bacterial skin cultures , cultures of skin biopsy specimens , or histopathologic evaluation . cd4 counts were decreased in all of the 12 patients tested ( less than 300 cells per cubic millimeter ) and were below 250 cells per cubic millimeter in 10 patients . a clinical response was noted to astemizole , to ultraviolet light in the b range , and to topical clobetasol propionate . these observations demonstrate that hiv-associated eosinophilic folliculitis is a unique hiv-related cutaneous disorder that is characterized by a culture-negative , chronic , pruritic folliculitis and a characteristic histopathologic picture . of special importance , because it is associated with cd4 counts of less than 250 to 300 cells per cubic millimeter , eosinophilic folliculitis appears to be an important clinical marker of hiv infection and , particularly , of patients at increased risk of developing opportunistic infections . we suggest that the term eosinophilic pustular folliculitis ( ofuji 's disease ) , previously used to describe this dermatosis in hiv-infected patients , should be discarded . 
eosinophilic fasciitis associated with tryptophan ingestion . a manifestation of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . recently , the ingestion of tryptophan has been associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome , which is characterized by eosinophilia , myalgias , and several less consistently reported findings . we treated 13 patients who exhibited clinical features of eosinophilic fasciitis who were taking high-dose tryptophan before the onset of clinical symptoms . twelve patients exhibited eosinophilia , with eosinophil counts ranging from 0.13 to 0.88 . the remaining patient was taking oral corticosteroids when her eosinophil count was determined . eight patients complained of myalgias . other symptoms included arthralgias , pruritus , cutaneous burning , weakness , fever , rashes , malaise , edema , muscle spasms , and alopecia . 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were elevated in four of the eight urine specimens that were tested . our findings suggest that previously diagnosed cases of eosinophilic fasciitis may represent variants of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . derangements in the metabolism of tryptophan may play a role in sclerotic diseases . 
ichthyosis , exocrine pancreatic insufficiency , impaired neutrophil chemotaxis , growth retardation , and metaphyseal dysplasia ( shwachman syndrome ) . report of a case with extensive skin lesions ( clinical , histological , and ultrastructural findings ) . the shwachman syndrome comprises exocrine pancreatic insufficiency , growth retardation , and bone marrow hypoplasia resulting in neutropenia . clinical , morphological , and ultrastructural studies , as well as hair analysis , were performed in a patient with shwachman 's syndrome and severe ichthyosis . clinical findings were lamellar ichthyosiform desquamation on the extremities . the hair was scanty and short on the scalp , in the eyelashes , and in the eyebrows . the nails were hyperkeratotic . morphologic findings were slight , regular acanthosis and severe diffuse hyperkeratosis with variable parakeratosis . the granular layer was thickened . the papillary dermis showed very slight perivascular lymphocyte infiltration . the most prominent ultrastructural finding was the presence of solitary or multiple droplets of varying size in the cytoplasm of the keratinocytes . hair analysis revealed no abnormalities ; the cystine concentration in hair specimens was normal . 
supported employment : an alternative model for vocational rehabilitation of persons with severe neurologic , psychiatric , or physical disability . participation in paid work in competitive industry through placement in supported employment is compared and analyzed for 278 severely disabled persons . differential outcomes are described for persons with chronic mental illness , cerebral palsy , traumatic brain injury , and dual diagnosis of chronic mental illness and mental retardation . results indicated that supported employment appears to be an effective means of assisting these historically unemployable individuals to acquire and retain work . cross-disability group differences were found in areas such as hourly wages , type of employment , services provided by employment specialists , and job retention . the results represent a baseline from which to evaluate future efforts at competitive work placement for persons with severe disabilities , using the supported-employment model . 
fatigue in postpolio syndrome . a survey was conducted to better understand complaints of fatigue in patients previously diagnosed as having polio . eighty-six individuals with postpolio syndrome and 20 healthy controls completed a questionnaire about their fatigue , the beck depression inventory , and the cage questionnaire . the results showed that fatigue in postpolio syndrome usually occurred on a daily basis and increased in severity as the day progressed . both the study group and controls described their fatigue as tiredness and a lack of energy . however , physical weakness was reported only in the postpolio group . minimal physical exercise exacerbated fatigue in 48 % of the postpolio group , whereas it diminished fatigue in 70 % of the controls and in 15 % of the postpolio group . twenty-seven percent of the postpolio group and none of the controls reported mild to moderate depressive symptoms . however , depression , age , alcohol abuse , and employment status did not significantly affect the differences between groups in reported prevalence or description of chronic fatigue . criteria to separate psychologic from organic causes of fatigue and treatment interventions are discussed . 
memory retraining to support educational reintegration . a memory retraining package specifically designed to facilitate reintegration of head injured patients into an educational environment is described . two adolescent patients who had severe head injuries were administered the memory retraining package approximately three months postinjury . a single case study and multiple baseline design was used to evaluate the efficacy of the memory retraining program . the results suggested that this is a promising avenue for improving memory functioning and facilitating educational reintegration , but only where moderate rather than severe memory deficits are involved . studies involving groups of patients and the collection of data on generalization are required to confirm usefulness . 
monocortical miniplate fixation of mandibular angle fractures . noncompression monocortical miniplate fixation of mandibular fractures has become a reliable method of providing rigid fixation and eliminating the need for intermaxillary fixation . recent studies , using a variety of internal fixation techniques , have described high complication rates at the mandibular angle . this article compares the use of one miniplate vs two miniplates in treatment of angle fractures . since september 1985 , 61 patients with 63 mandibular angle fractures have been treated with miniplates . forty-four fractures were fixed with two miniplates . six complications ( 3.1 % ) occurred , five of which were in the one-miniplate group . the complication rate in the double-miniplate group is the lowest reported of any plating technique . the use of two miniplates has proved to be an effective method of treating mandibular angle fractures . 
single-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction . the mainstay for repairing subglottic and tracheal stenosis has been the rib graft with prolonged stenting . a refinement of this treatment was the use of the anterior cricoid decompression ( split ) . we present single-stage reconstruction of the airway as an additional refinement of the laryngotracheoplasty . this article describes the experience of two institutions with single-stage reconstruction and offers some observations on the principles of the technique . 
bacteriology of the ethmoid bullae in children with chronic sinusitis . cultures from 105 children with chronic sinusitis who had failed aggressive medical management were retrospectively studied . patients with immunodeficiency and cystic fibrosis were excluded from the study . because the most common sites of disease were the infundibula and anterior ethmoid sinuses , samples of mucosa removed from the anterior ethmoid bullae during endoscopic ethmoidectomy were routinely cultured for aerobic and anaerobic organisms . fungal cultures were performed for 55 bullae . the principal organisms isolated were alpha-hemolytic streptococcus , staphylococcus aureus , moraxella catarrhalis , streptococcus pneumoniae , and haemophilus influenzae non-type b. only 12 anaerobic organisms and four fungi were isolated . of the 204 bullae cultured , multiple organisms were found in 61 bullae and 40 showed no growth . isolates of other less common organisms were also found . these data are analyzed on the basis of age and duration of symptoms , and antibiotic treatment is described . 
nasolacrimal obstruction after inferior meatus nasal antrostomy . transient epiphora following rhinoplasty or intranasal procedures is a common occurrence . permanent nasolacrimal duct obstruction , however , is rare . this article documents four cases of nasolacrimal duct obstruction following intranasal antrostomy . three patients were cured by dacryocystorhinostomy and a fourth refused surgery . the anatomy of the nasolacrimal duct in the inferior meatus has considerable variation . although the duct typically opens in the inferior meatus immediately under the insertion of the inferior turbinate , the orifice can be a single hole , a slit , multiple holes , or a trough , and can be located anywhere from 30 to 40 mm dorsal to the anterior nares . we review the embryology and anatomy of the nasolacrimal orifice in the nose and make recommendations for safe surgery in the inferior meatus . 
cranial base hemorrhage . a technique for controlling the uncontrollable . in the management of trauma , control of life-threatening hemorrhage must be accomplished expeditiously if morbidity is to be decreased and mortality prevented . hemorrhage from the inaccessible cranial base , especially when transected vessel stumps are not available for direct control , can be the most demanding , life-threatening , surgical emergency . we present our experience in utilizing an autologous bone grafting technique to successfully control severe hemorrhage from the base of the skull . in our review of the literature to date , we have been unable to ascertain whether this modality has been previously used . 
giant breast hematoma requiring blood transfusion : an unusual complication after an echocardiographic study during thrombolytic therapy . we report on a patient in whom significant bleeding occurred during thrombolytic therapy . the bleeding occurred after an echocardiographic study , and it resulted in blood transfusion . 
six year follow up of a consecutive series of patients presenting to the coronary care unit with acute chest pain : prognostic importance of the electrocardiogram in a retrospective 6 year follow up data were obtained for 536 of 566 ( 95 % ) consecutive patients admitted to a coronary care unit with acute chest pain . their diagnoses were acute myocardial infarction in 290 ( 54 % ) , myocardial ischaemia in 164 ( 31 % ) , pericarditis in 16 ( 3 % ) , and non-cardiac in 66 ( 12 % ) . six year mortality was 36 % , 24 % , 0 % , and 16 % respectively . in patients with acute myocardial infarction a higher mortality rate during follow up was associated with a higher than average age , a higher than average creatine kinase , previous myocardial infarction , q wave infarction , and the presence of reciprocal changes . the presence of reciprocal changes was associated with higher than average concentration of serum creatine kinase , indicating more extensive infarction . infarction complicated by ventricular fibrillation or left bundle branch block was associated with a higher death rate . the electrocardiogram recorded at the time of acute myocardial infarction contains much useful prognostic information . 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without hypertrophy : two families with myocardial disarray in the absence of increased myocardial mass two families are described in which individuals showed widespread myocardial disarray at histological examination , in the absence of macroscopic cardiac hypertrophy . in one family the clinical presentation was that of sudden unexpected cardiac death in four family members ; members of the other family presented with electrocardiographic repolarisation changes and abnormalities of left ventricular diastolic function . the finding of myocardial disarray , the characteristic histological abnormality of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , in the absence of increased cardiac mass suggests a wider range of abnormality in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy than is currently recognised . 
early diastolic clicks after the fontan procedure for double inlet left ventricle : anatomical and physiological correlates . m mode echocardiograms and simultaneous phonocardiograms were recorded in four patients with early diastolic clicks on auscultation . all had double inlet left ventricle and had undergone the fontan procedure with closure of the right atrioventricular valve orifice by an artificial patch . the phonocardiogram confirmed a high frequency sound occurring 60-90 ms after aortic valve closure and coinciding with the time of maximal excursion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass . one patient had coexisting congenital complete heart block . the m mode echocardiogram showed " reversed " motion of the patch towards the right atrium during atrial contraction . doppler flow studies showed that coincident with this motion there was forward flow in the pulmonary artery with augmentation when atrial contraction coincided with ventricular systole . the early diastolic click in these patients was explained by abrupt cessation of the motion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass in early diastole . in one patient atrial contraction led to a reversal of this motion and was associated with forward flow in the pulmonary artery . 
sudden death in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with normal left ventricular mass an active , healthy , and symptom free 16 year old boy with a family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy died suddenly while walking home from school . necropsy showed absence of left ventricular hypertrophy ( that is , normal heart weight ) , though the characteristic histological abnormalities of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy , such as cardiac muscle cell disorganisation and abnormal intramural coronary arteries , were present . it is likely that this patient had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and died before left ventricular hypertrophy developed . 
the epithelial changes associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva : a review of the clinical , histological and viral findings in 78 women . seventy-eight excised specimens of squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva were reviewed retrospectively for the presence of lichen sclerosus or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) at sites proximal to the tumour or more distant . lichen sclerosus was evident in 61 % and vin alone in 31 % . vin iii ( differentiated ) was associated with over 50 % of the specimens with lichen sclerosus . hpv 16 was found in six of the 11 vin lesions , investigated but in none of the six with lichen sclerosus . 
course of diabetic retinopathy following cataract surgery five patients with mild to moderate retinopathy to both eyes underwent complication-free cataract surgery in one eye . within three months of surgery deterioration of the retinopathy was observed in the operated eye only . in four patients there was an increase of intraretinal haemorrhages and hard exudates , accompanied by clinically significant macular oedema manifested as retinal thickening and extensive fluorescein leakage from both the macular and the peripapillary capillary networks . of these four patients one also developed retinal ischaemia , evident ophthalmoscopically by flame-shaped haemorrhages and cotton-wool spots and angiographically by areas of capillary non-perfusion . the fifth patient showed proliferation of new blood vessels and vitreous haemorrhage . diabetic patients scheduled for cataract surgery should undergo a thorough preoperative evaluation of any existing retinopathy . postoperatively they should be followed up at close intervals so that any progression of retinopathy can be promptly detected and considered for laser treatment . 
long-term efficacy of primary laser trabeculoplasty . sixty glaucomatous eyes of 60 patients treated with laser trabeculoplasty as primary therapy were reviewed retrospectively . there were 42 eyes with capsular glaucoma and 18 with simple glaucoma . the mean prelaser intraocular pressure ( iop ) was 35.2 ( sd = 6.5 ) mmhg . success was defined as iop less than or equal to 22 mmhg without medication . the probability of success was 0.73 at 1 year , 0.66 at 2 years , 0.57 at 3 years , and 0.50 at 4 years . three eyes experienced progressive visual field loss or disc damage in spite of an intraocular pressure below 22 mmhg without medication . high prelaser pressure and the severity of the visual field defects were significant predictors of treatment failure . 
decalcification of a choroidal osteoma . a 56-year-old man presented with a clearly defined orange tumour in the posterior pole of his left eye . a choroidal osteoma was suspected , and ultrasonography confirmed the diagnosis . fluorescein angiography demonstrated subretinal neovascularisation on the nasal edge of the tumour , which was treated with krypton laser photocoagulation twice . recurrent subretinal neovascularisation occurred one year later and was not amenable to treatment . three years after the patient first presented , thinning of the tumour was noted on follow-up examination . during the next 15 months the tumour completely disappeared , leaving an area of retinal pigment epithelial and choroidal atrophy . total decalcification of the choroidal osteoma was demonstrated by ultrasonography . 
extracapsular cataract surgery with lens implantation in diabetics with and without proliferative retinopathy in a retrospective study we have examined all diabetics ( 66 operated eyes ) and an equal number of non-diabetic matched controls who underwent extracapsular cataract extracation ( ecce ) with intraocular lens ( iol ) implantation over a two-year period ending in december 1987 . of the diabetic patients ' 76 % eyes improved by at least two lines of snellen acuity postoperatively . of these patients 68 % eyes and of the control eyes 83 % achieved an acuity of 6/12 or better . in the diabetics the visual outcome depended on the state of the retinopathy and in particular the maculopathy . the diabetic group had a greater incidence of postoperative inflammation , but the major complications were related to continuing neovascularisation . early postoperative laser photocoagulation may help to prevent these proliferative complications , and , provided a large , adequate capsulotomy is performed for capsular thickening , the presence of an iol does not interfere with this photocoagulation . we also advise early postoperative assessment , and treatment if necessary , of any maculopathy . diabetic retinopathy should no longer be regarded as a contraindication to intraocular lens insertion . 
translocation ( 9 ; 22 ) is associated with extremely poor prognosis in intensively treated children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia . the prognostic implications of t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) were assessed at a median follow-up of 3.5 years in 434 children receiving intensive treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . four-year event-free and overall survivals were 81 % and 88 % , respectively , in 419 children lacking t ( 9 ; 22 ) , but were 0 % and 20 % , respectively , in 15 children with t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( p less than .001 ) . poor outcome for children with t ( 9 ; 22 ) - positive all was particularly notable because we have reported improved survival in other historically poor prognosis all cytogenetic categories when treated with similarly intensive therapy . we recommend that very intensive treatment approaches , including bone marrow transplantation in first remission , be considered for all children with t ( 9 ; 22 ) - positive all . 
clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia with the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) : a collaborative study of 40 cases . the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) chromosomal abnormality was identified in 40 ( 2 % ) of 1,986 children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . this translocation was associated with female sex ( 63 % ) , age less than 1 year ( 60 % ) , hyperleukocytosis ( median leukocyte count , 156.5 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) , cd10 - / cd19 + b-precursor cell immunophenotype , and myeloid-associated antigen ( cd15 ) expression ( 63 % ) . nearly all cases had at least some cd24 - blast cells . the cd10 - / cd15 % / cd19 + / cd24 / + phenotype was found in 20 of the 32 t ( 4 ; 11 ) cases tested . none of the 40 cases had the cytogenetic finding of hyperdiploidy greater than 50 , which is a favorable prognostic feature . for clinical comparison , the t ( 4 ; 11 ) cases were divided into three groups according to age at diagnosis : less than 1 year ( n = 24 ) , 1 to 9 years ( n = 8 ) , and greater than or equal to 10 years ( n = 8 ) . compared with older patients , infants were more likely to have initial central nervous system leukemia ( p = .05 ) and less likely to have pre-b-cell all ( p = .05 ) . complete continuous remission has been maintained in only 7 of 24 infants and 2 of 8 patients aged greater than or equal to 10 years , in contrast to 7 of 8 children in the intermediate age group ( p = .048 ) . these findings suggest that the t ( 4 ; 11 ) is an adverse prognostic feature in these two age groups . 
interleukin-6 and its receptor are expressed by human megakaryocytes : in vitro effects on proliferation and endoreplication . interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) is a pleiotropic cytokine that plays an important role in the megakaryocytic differentiation . recently , we have observed that il-6 is synthesized by several human cell lines with megakaryocytic features . in this study , we have investigated whether a similar phenomenon occurs during normal megakaryocytic differentiation . human megakaryocytes ( mk ) were obtained by culturing normal marrow in liquid culture with aplastic plasma ( ap ) . first , an il-6 secretion in bone marrow culture enriched in mk as well as in purified mk populations was demonstrated by a biologic assay . second , il-6 mrna was detected in a purified population of mk by the polymerase chain reaction and dot blot analysis . il-6 mrna and protein were undetectable in platelets . third , in situ hybridization procedure demonstrated the presence of il-6 mrna in individual immature mk . fourth , il-6 protein was detected in mk at the unicellular level by an immunoalkaline phosphatase technique using a monoclonal antibody against il-6 . furthermore , the presence of il-6 receptor ( il-6-r ) on mk was demonstrated by in situ hybridization using an il-6-r probe and in situ autoradiography after binding with [ 125i ] - labeled recombinant il-6 . the il-6 endogenously produced in liquid cultures containing normal human plasma or ap was subsequently neutralized . this resulted in a 50 % decrease of the mk growth with a minor shift in the ploidy distribution toward lower values . in semisolid cultures the addition of anti-il-6 antibodies led to a 42 % decrease in colony number in cultures stimulated by il-3 but not in other conditions of culture . these results suggest that normal human megakaryocytopoiesis might be regulated in part by an il-6 autocrine loop . 
a 5.3-kb deletion including exon xiii of the protein s alpha gene occurs in two protein s-deficient families . genomic dna samples from 12 protein s-deficient families with hereditary thrombophilia were analyzed by southern hybridization using protein s cdna probes . protein s-deficient members of families a and b possessed identical restriction fragment length polymorphisms , which suggest the absence of 5.3 kb from one of their protein s alpha alleles . the abnormal alleles from individuals a7 and b1 were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction using a forward primer in intron k and a reverse primer in exon xiv . the amplified dna was cloned and sequenced . sequence comparison with the normal protein s alpha gene showed that most of intron l ( roughly 4.7 kb ) , the entire exon xiii ( 151 bp ) , and about a quarter of intron m ( 407 bp ) were missing from both the a7 and b1 clones . exon xiii contains all three potential n-glycosylation sites in human protein s. this deletion may result in rna transcripts in which exon xii is spliced to exon xiv . such an arrangement would generate a stop codon at position 463 and consequently produce a nonglycosylated protein s molecule truncated by 173 amino acids . 
characterization of an interleukin-6-mediated autocrine growth loop in the human multiple myeloma cell line , u266 . it has been reported recently that freshly isolated human myeloma cell cultures proliferate in response to added interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) . endogenous levels of il-6 found in the same cultures suggested that an autocrine growth loop may contribute to cell growth . however , the lack of homogenous cell populations in primary myeloma cultures has made it difficult to distinguish between paracrine and autocrine growth mechanisms . to precisely address the autocrine growth issue we have evaluated the growth of the human myeloma cell line , u266 . we have found that a neutralizing anti-il-6 monoclonal antibody can inhibit u266 proliferation . furthermore , the addition of il-6 antisense oligonucleotides also inhibits u266 proliferation . these effects are reversed by adding il-6 , suggesting the presence of an autocrine loop . using bioassays with two different il-6-dependent cell lines , we were able to detect il-6 in concentrated u266 supernatants . il-6 mrna was detected by polymerase chain reaction amplification of cdna . cell cycle parameter analysis shows that il-6 acts to release a block in g1 . taken together these results present conclusive evidence for il-6-mediated autocrine growth in the u266 human myeloma cell line . 
mutations of the ras proto-oncogenes in childhood monosomy 7 . ras gene mutations are the most frequent molecular changes found in the preleukemic syndromes of adults and may play a role in initiating these diseases and in their progression to acute leukemia . however , little is known about the incidence or importance of these genetic mutations in childhood myeloproliferative states ( mps ) . the bone marrow ( bm ) monosomy 7 syndrome accounts for a large percentage of childhood mps . although the duration of the mps is quite variable , children with monosomy 7 eventually develop acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) . we investigated 20 children ( 13 with mps , 7 with aml ) with bm monosomy 7 or 7q - for the presence of ras gene mutations using the polymerase chain reaction and hybridization with mutation-specific oligonucleotides . mutations of n-ras and k-ras were detected in three children . two patients carrying a ras mutation were in the myeloproliferative phase , and one had acute leukemia . all three patients with ras mutations either died of their disease or relapsed after bm transplantation as compared with 8 of 17 without ras mutations . however , this difference is not statistically significant ( p = .14 , not significant ) . we conclude that ras mutations are observed in childhood monosomy 7 , though less frequently than in adult mds , and may play a limited role in the progression of this disease to acute leukemia . more patients are needed to address the prognostic role of ras mutations in this rare disease . 
t-cell translocation gene 1 ( ttg-1 ) encodes a nuclear protein normally expressed in neural lineage cells . we previously identified and cloned t-cell translocation gene 1 ( ttg-1 ) , a putative zinc finger protein , as a result of its deregulated expression in a t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line ( rpmi 8402 ) with a t ( 11 ; 14 ) ( p15 ; q11 ) . we have now characterized its genomic organization and identified the major transcriptional start site to lie within an initiator-like motif . ttg-1 is normally expressed in mouse brain and not in thymus . the mouse neuroblastoma cell line , n2a , also expresses ttg-1 . antibodies raised against a trpe-ttg-1 fusion protein precipitate an 18-kd nuclear protein from metabolically labeled 8402 cells . immunofluorescence of n2a cells shows a nuclear pattern . the two potential zinc finger domains in ttg-1 are highly homologous to similar regions in lin-11 , mec-3 , and lsl-1 . this data suggests that ttg-1 may be involved in gene regulation . 
molecular characterization of erythrocyte glycophorin c variants . human erythrocyte glycophorin c plays a functionally important role in maintaining erythrocyte shape and regulating membrane mechanical stability . immunochemical and serologic studies have identified a number of glycophorin c variants that include the yus , gerbich , and webb phenotypes . we report here the molecular characterization of these variants . amplification of glycophorin c mrna from the yus phenotype , using two oligonucleotide primers that span the coding domain , generated a 338-bp fragment compared with a 395-bp fragment generated by amplification of normal glycophorin c mrna . sequencing of the mutant 338-bp fragment identified a 57-bp deletion that corresponds to exon 2 of the glycophorin c gene . similar analysis showed deletion of 84-bp exon 3 in the gerbich phenotype . in contrast to the generation of shorter than normal dna fragments from mrna amplification in the yus and gerbich phenotypes , amplification of mrna from the webb phenotype generated a normal-sized fragment . sequencing of this dna fragment showed an a ---- g substitution at nucleotide 23 of the coding sequence , resulting in the substitution of asparagine by serine . this modification accounts for the altered glycosylation of glycophorin c seen in this phenotype . these results have enabled us to characterize glycophorin c variants in three different phenotypes that involve deletions of exons 2 and 3 of the glycophorin c gene , as well as a point mutation in exon 1 that results in altered glycosylation of this protein . 
use of the polymerase chain reaction to monitor the effectiveness of ex vivo tumor cell purging . the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) was used to detect residual malignant disease before and after ex vivo purging with monoclonal antibodies and complement or immunomagnetic treatment of bm samples contaminated with known numbers of t ( 14 ; 18 ) - carrying tumor cells . sensitivity of the pcr was demonstrated by detecting a specific t ( 14 ; 18 ) amplification product in dna extracted from a preparation consisting of one tumor cell among 10 ( 5 ) normal cells . when bm contaminated with 1 % to 5 % t ( 14 ; 18 ) - carrying cells from the b-cell lymphoma line su-dhl-4 was subjected to two rounds of anti-b-cell pool of antibodies and complement ( ab-c ) treatment a 3 - to 4-log reduction of the pretreatment pcr signal was observed . a similar log-cell kill was detected using an independent clonogenic assay confirming the utility of the pcr approach . bm contaminated with a second b-cell lymphoma cell line , oci-ly8 , was more resistant because a third cycle of ab-c treatment was required to obtain a similar reduction in the pcr signal . a similar 4 logs of tumor cell removal was obtained using anti-b-cell antibodies conjugated to magnetic beads . these studies demonstrate that the t ( 14 ; 18 ) pcr can be used to detect levels of tumor cells as low as 0.001 % . this approach can be used to determine the effectiveness of bm purging in patients undergoing autologous bm transplantation as well as to assess the biologic role of minimal marrow disease . 
fine-needle aspiration evaluation of lymphoproliferative lesions in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients . a multiparameter approach . forty-six fine-needle aspirates of lymphoproliferative lesions from 31 human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive patients were reviewed using cytomorphologic , immunocytochemical , flow cytometric ( fcm ) , cytogenetic , and molecular studies . there were 29 lymphomas ( 15 small non-cleaved cell [ sncl ] , 11 large cell [ lcl ] , one small lymphocytic , and two hodgkin 's ) , 14 reactive hyperplasias , and three " atypical lymphoid proliferations . " the reactive hyperplasias were characteristically polymorphic and polyclonal lymphoid populations ; six of seven were diploid on fcm , the seventh was hypodiploid . higher proliferative indices ( mean , 11.6 % ) and higher rna indices ( mean , 1.2 ) characterized this subgroup compared with published reactive lymphoid hyperplasias from patients without hiv positivity . aspirates of sncl showed monotonous populations of intermediate-sized cells except in one patient where a giant cell syncytial variant occurred . nine of 13 sncl aspirates showed light chain restriction . jh rearrangement revealed b-cell lineage in one aspirate in which immunocytochemical study was negative for kappa , lambda , b1 , and leu-4 . nine of 12 sncl were diploid ; the mean proliferative index was 25.6 % and the mean rna index 2.3 . chromosomal translocations involving the c-myc locus were demonstrated in five of seven sncl aspirates karyotyped . five of eight lcl showed light chain restriction the remaining three showed null cell phenotype . large cell lymphomas were diploid on tetraploid with the mean proliferative index of 22.0 % and mean rna index of 2.2 . one of two lcl aspirates karyotyped demonstrated c-myc translocation . despite the multiparameter approach , a definitive diagnosis could not be reached in three aspirates . 
idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome terminating as disseminated t-cell lymphoma . the authors describe a case of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome ( hes ) terminated as a t-cell lymphoma in a 3-year-old girl . the clinical course was chronic and characterized by chronic eczema , persistent peripheral blood eosinophilia , organomegaly , interstitial lung change , and pericarditis . postmortem examination demonstrated a disseminated t-cell lymphoma involving the inguinal lymph node , liver , lung , and kidney . the findings of the current case suggest a possibility that certain abnormalities in this case of idiopathic hes per se may have triggered the development of malignant lymphoma , and it may represent a transition of idiopathic hes into a t-cell lymphoma . other possible sequences are discussed . the development of t-cell malignancy in idiopathic hes in a girl is quite an unusual presentation . 
hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia . the incidence , clinical characteristics , and outcome of hypersensitivity reactions to teniposide ( vm-26 ) , etoposide ( vp-16 ) , or both were determined in 108 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) treated with a contemporary regimen of intensive multiagent chemotherapy . fifty ( 46 % ) of the 108 patients had one or more hypersensitivity reactions . the risk of any child having an initial reaction over the cumulative dose range studied was 52 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 41 % and 63 % ) for vm-26 , compared with 34 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 24 % and 44 % ) for vp-16 . the risk of having an initial reaction to vm-26 or vp-16 was clearly related to the cumulative dose . this risk peaked at 1500 to 2000 mg/m2 for vm-26 and at 2000-3000 mg/m2 for vp-16 . all reactions were type 1 reactions according to the gell and coombs classification , characterized by urticaria , angioedema , flushing , rashes , or hypotension , and 86 % of reactions were of grade 1 or 2 severity according to standard criteria . there was no evidence of increasing clinical severity on repeated rechallenge with premedication , and no deaths occurred . the findings suggested that hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with all are more common than previously reported , but only rarely constitute dose-limiting toxicity . 
patient-controlled analgesic administration . a comparison of steady-state morphine infusions with bolus doses . the authors have shown previously that bone marrow transplant ( bmt ) patients who self-administered bolus doses of morphine gained equal oral mucositis pain relief while using less drug compared with similar patients receiving morphine by staff-controlled continuous infusion . in a follow-up study they compared the efficacy and side effects of morphine in two groups of marrow transplant patients who controlled their own analgesic administration either by conventional bolus-dose , patient-controlled analgesia ( pca ) or by adjusting the rate of continuous morphine infusion to increase or decrease their plasma morphine concentration . patients controlling their morphine infusion rates ( pharmacokinetically based patient-controlled analgesia [ pkpca ] group ) obtained more relief from oral mucositis pain than did patients using conventional pca . patients in the pkpca group used more morphine than pca patients and achieved superior pain relief without significant increases in side effects ( e.g. , nausea , mood changes , sedation ) . the authors conclude that pkpca improves the management of prolonged , severe pain in marrow transplant patients and that this approach to patient-controlled analgesia may be useful in other types of persistent pain . 
multimodality cisplatin treatment in nonresectable alpha-fetoprotein-positive hepatoma . twenty-eight patients with alpha-fetoprotein-positive ( afp + ) nonresectable hepatoma have been enrolled in a new multimodality phase i , ii program . induction therapy consisted of 50 mg/m2 intravenous cisplatin followed by 2100 cgy irradiation to the tumor volume in seven fractions over 10 days . hepatic arterial infusion of 50 mg/m2 cisplatin ( ia-cddp ) was then administered at monthly intervals . twenty-one patients have completed induction and at least two cycles of ia-cddp . twelve-month cumulative survival was 52 % for all 28 patients and 69 % for the 21 patients completing induction and ia-cddp . median survival has not yet been reached . response rate ( complete and partial ) was 36 % overall and 48 % among the 21 patients who completed treatment . the improved survival of the present series of patients as well as the minimal hematologic toxicity suggests possible further integration of new modalities for therapy . 
treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with i-131 meta-iodobenzylguanidine . from february 1986 to december 1988 , 31 children with advanced pretreated neuroblastoma were treated with 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine ( 131-mibg ) . thirteen children had been resistant to first-line therapy , three had suffered a local relapse , and fourteen had suffered a disseminated relapse without over bone marrow infiltration . one child was treated initially because of resistance to first-line therapy , and subsequently for a local relapse . a total of 72 courses of 131-mibg was administered , with doses ranging from 2.8 to 6.0 gbq ( median , 3.7 gbq ) . one child received five courses , two four courses , 13 three courses , four two courses , and 12 one course of 131-mibg . the most common toxic effect was thrombocytopenia , with a platelet level of less than 50,000 / cmm occurring after 19 of 60 evaluable courses . a leukocyte count less than 1000/cmm was seen only once . there were six major responses ( two complete ) lasting 4 to 9 months , and two minor responses lasting longer than 38 and 44 months . responses were seen more commonly in children whose only lesion was a residual primary tumor and in children who had not been pretreated who experienced disseminated relapse . further studies of the role of 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine in treatment of neuroblastoma are needed . 
plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity treated by radiation therapy . plasma cell granuloma is a rare , benign tumor most commonly found in the lungs in patients younger than 30 years . although presentation has been reported at a number of other anatomic sites , this report is the first of plasma cell granuloma of the nasal cavity . the tumor was initially resected , but progression was seen at 1-month follow-up . because further surgery to completely eradicate the tumor would have been extensive and disfiguring , 40-gy external beam radiation was given in 20 fractions using a three-field wedge technique . most recent clinical follow-up at 27 months showed local control . surgery remains the treatment of choice for plasma cell granuloma when the disease can be completely resected . however , irradiation can also be effective in patients with recurrent or inoperable local disease . 
platelet factor 4 mrna expression in cells from a patient with megakaryoblastic crisis of chronic myelogenous leukemia . a 61-year-old man with philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia developed megakaryoblastic leukemia . in the blast phase , his blast cells showed undifferentiated megakaryoblastic characteristics with no alpha-granules or demarcation membranes but with detectable platelet peroxidase ( ppo ) activity and surface glycoprotein ( gp ) iib/iiia . the patient has remained reasonably well for at least 12 months after blastic crisis , and 6-mercaptopurine alone has been effective in controlling leukocytosis and megakaryoblast proliferation . the expression of mrna for platelet-specific proteins , such as gpiib and platelet factor 4 ( pf4 ) , was studied in the patient 's blast cells by the northern blot analysis . both gpiib and pf4 mrna were detected in the blast cells . cytoplasmic maturation occurs later than the synthesis of the surface gp during megakaryocyte maturation . therefore , pf4 mrna expression should be a marker of mature megakaryoblasts . the pf4 mrna expression in megakaryoblastic leukemia may indicate that a patient will have long survival and a good response to chemotherapy . 
genotypic analyses of richter 's syndrome . the authors report the immunogenotype of two cases of richter 's syndrome . the immunoglobulin gene rearrangement pattern obtained on southern blot analysis was found in both cases to be the same in leukemic blood cells and in the tissue involved by the lymphoma . the beta chain and gamma chain t-cell receptor gene rearrangement pattern exhibited a germ-line configuration in the peripheral blood cells and in the lymph node in case 2 , whereas in case 1 the lymph node had a gene rearrangement in the beta chain , as well as in the gamma chain t-cell receptor , and the leukemic cells from bone marrow were found to be in a germ-line configuration for t-cell receptors ( beta and gamma chains ) . 
prostate cancer : transrectal ultrasound and pathology comparison . a preliminary study of outer gland ( peripheral and central zones ) and inner gland ( transition zone ) cancer . a study was conducted to compare results of transrectal ultrasound with pathologic findings on 116 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy for treatment of prostate cancer . in 96 % ( 111 of 116 ) , transrectal ultrasound guided biopsies of a hypoechoic lesion proved cancer ; seven patients had known stage a cancer ; one patient had cancer detected by palpation and not detected by ultrasound . cancers in the outer gland ( peripheral and central zones ) were compared with cancers in the inner gland ( transition zone ) by both ultrasound and pathology . forty-eight percent ( 52 of 108 ) of cancers originating in the outer gland showed extraprostatic extension ( stage c disease ) . the primary sites of tumor escape from the outer gland were the prostatic capsule ( 38 % ) , anterior fibromuscular stroma ( 5 % ) , seminal vesicle ( 18 % ) , the base of the gland at the neurovascular bundle ( 21 % ) , and the apex ( 31 % ) . twenty-two percent ( 17 of 54 ) of cancers originating in the inner gland ( transition zone ) showed extraprostatic extension ( stage c disease ) . the primary sites of tumor escape from the inner gland were the anterior fibromuscular stroma ( 6 % ) and apex ( 11 % ) . both histologic and biologic differences between outer and inner gland cancers were found when tumor size was controlled . gleason scores were significantly different for inner and outer gland cancers , with mean scores of 6.2 + / - 1.6 and 7.4 + / - 0.9 , respectively . an odds ratio of 8.6 confirmed the increased risk of extraprostatic extension for outer gland cancer . outer gland cancers showed increased aggressive behavior of both histologic and biologic nature . the difference in biologic aggressiveness of outer and inner gland cancers has definite implications for treatment options . use of other diagnostic parameters , such as dna ploidy , may help to determine which cancers to treat and when to treat them ; this may have more relevance for cancers originating in the inner gland . strategic transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy affords accurate tumor mapping and staging when modes of internal spread and escape of cancer from both outer and inner gland are known . thus , transrectal ultrasound may be our " window of observation " through which additional research may explain the histologic and biologic discrepancies between outer and inner gland cancers . 
metastatic tumors of unknown origin . the clinical appearance of metastatic lesions without an obvious primary source for the tumor is a common event . tumor registry figures and epidemiologic data grossly understate the actual frequency of unknown primaries , because primary sites are often " assigned " to patients on a best-guess basis without positive proof of a tumor 's origin . in the majority of patients whose primary tumors have continued to elude detection , the extensive use of diagnostic imaging studies fails to produce information that alters the patients ' clinical course . rare exceptions will be cited , but these exceptions prove the general rule . imaging studies should therefore be targeted for selected patients with disseminated malignancies in whom identification of their primary tumors could benefit quality of life or length of survival . 
prognostic implications of dna histogram , dna content , and histologic changes of regional lymph nodes in patients with lung cancer . forty-six cases of resected lung cancer , including 20 cases at stages i and ii and 26 cases at stage iii ( n2 ) , were subdivided into two groups : a good prognosis group with a longer survival period and a poor prognosis group in which the patients died earlier of the cancer . from paraffin-embedded lymph node tissues of these patients , the authors examined dna histogram pattern and dna content , using flow cytometry , and histologic hyperplasia of germinal center and paracortical area ; they also evaluated their correlation with the prognosis . in the good prognosis group at stages i and ii , paracortical hyperplasia ( ph ) of the lymph nodes was observed significantly more frequently . in the good prognosis group at stage iii , the incidence of ph , g2m phase in the dna histograms , and dna content were all significantly higher . dna content was positively correlated with the grade of ph. 
flow cytometric determination of breast tumor heterogeneity . flow cytometric analysis was done on the dna content of nuclei obtained from different sites of small breast tumors . although specimens for analysis were obtained within a few millimeters of each other , dramatic differences were occasionally observed in the dna histograms . in a limited study involving 141 consecutive breast specimens submitted for flow cytometry , 52 % ( 74 ) were found to have at least one dna aneuploid population . in 18 % of dna aneuploid tumors , one or more specimens from areas grossly identified as tumor had no dna aneuploid population . because of the proposed correlation of aneuploidy with a poorer prognosis and possible responsiveness to chemotherapy , multiple sites should be assayed when flow cytometric dna analysis is done . 
hereditary ovarian cancer . heterogeneity in age at diagnosis . an unknown fraction of the ovarian cancer burden occurs in women with a family history indicative of a putative autosomal dominantly inherited cancer susceptibility syndrome . the results from a five-generation , extended , hereditary breast-ovarian cancer kindred are described 10 years after it was initially ascertained . significantly more cancers were observed in high-risk family members during this decade than were expected ( p less than 0.001 ) . the age of ovarian cancer diagnosis was studied in additional ovarian cancer-prone families of three types : site-specific ovarian cancer syndrome , the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome , and lynch syndrome ii . the age of onset in each of the three sets was significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) earlier than the general population mean of 59 , and there were significant differences in the age of onset ( p = 0.050 ) among these three cohorts . ovarian cancer histology was similar to that of patients with negative family histories . there may be clinically significant heterogeneity in the age at diagnosis of ovarian cancer among these ovarian cancer-prone syndromes . this has important implications for understanding its natural history and targeting surveillance-management strategies . 
cancer in relatives of survivors of childhood sarcoma . relatives of 88 long-term survivors of childhood sarcoma were examined for the familial cancer syndrome of sarcoma , breast cancer , and other neoplasms ( li-fraumeni syndrome ) . twenty-six of 402 close relatives developed cancer ( expected , 23.8 ) , including breast cancer in four mothers ( expected , 3.1 ) . two sarcoma probands who developed second malignant tumors have multiple relatives with cancer and might have an inherited predisposition . an increased cancer risk and exceptional requirement for disease screening appear to be confined to first-degree relatives of a small fraction of children with sarcoma , notably probands with second cancers . 
effects of local reduction in pressure on distensibility and composition of cerebral arterioles . this study examined effects of local reductions in mean and pulse pressures on cerebral arterioles in normotensive wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) and stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrsp ) . wky and shrsp underwent clipping of one carotid artery at 1 month of age . at 10-12 months of age , mechanics of pial arterioles were examined in vivo in anesthetized rats . bilateral craniotomies were performed to expose pial arterioles in the sham and clipped cerebral hemispheres . stress-strain relations were calculated from measurements of pial arteriolar pressure ( servo null ) , diameter , and cross-sectional area of the arteriolar wall . point counting stereology was used to quantitate individual components in the arteriolar wall . before deactivation of smooth muscle with edta , mean ( pm ) and pulse ( pp ) pressures were significantly less ( p less than 0.05 ) in clipped than in sham arterioles in wky ( pm , 63 + / - 2 versus 73 + / - 2 mm hg ; pp , 23 + / - 3 versus 30 + / - 3 mm hg ) and shrsp ( pm , 94 + / - 4 versus 110 + / - 4 mm hg ; pp , 27 + / - 2 versus 38 + / - 3 mm hg ) . cross-sectional area of the arteriolar wall was less ( p less than 0.05 ) in clipped than in sham arterioles in both groups of rats ( 1,403 + / - 125 versus 1,683 + / - 125 microns2 in wky ; 1,436 + / - 72 versus 1,926 + / - 134 microns2 in shrsp ) . there was a correlation between cross-sectional area of the vessel wall and pulse pressure ( r2 = 0.66 ) , but not mean pressure ( r2 = 0.09 ) . during maximal dilatation with edta , the stress-strain curve was shifted to the left in clipped arterioles of shrsp , but not of wky , which indicates that carotid clipping in shrsp reduces passive distensibility of cerebral arterioles . the proportion of distensible components in the vessel wall ( smooth muscle , elastin , and endothelium ) was reduced in clipped arterioles in shrsp , but not in wky . these findings suggest that 1 ) vascular hypertrophy of cerebral arterioles is related more closely to pulse pressure than to mean pressure , and 2 ) reduction of pial arteriolar pressure completely prevents cerebral vascular hypertrophy and attenuates increases in passive distensibility of cerebral arterioles in shrsp . 
conditioning prepulse of biphasic defibrillator waveforms enhances refractoriness to fibrillation wavefronts . the mechanism of biphasic waveform defibrillation threshold reduction is unknown . we tested the hypothesis that , during refractory period stimulation , sarcolemmal hyperpolarization by the first pulse of biphasic waveforms facilitates excitation channel recovery , which enhances graded responses produced by the second depolarizing pulse . this prolongs cellular refractoriness to fibrillation wavefronts when compared with a monophasic depolarizing stimulus . monophasic ( 10 msec , rectangular wave ) or symmetrical biphasic ( 10 msec , each pulse ) current injection s2 stimuli at 1.5 and two times s1 threshold were used to scan the s1 action potential refractory period ( s1 cycle length , 600 msec ) in myocardial cell aggregates . s2 waveforms were delivered with normal and reversed polarity to test the hyperpolarizing action of biphasic waveforms . responses to an s3 stimulus , which simulated a potential incoming fibrillation wavefront , were also determined . results showed that biphasic s2 waveforms produced longer graded responses during and immediately after the s1 refractory period than did corresponding monophasic s2 waveforms . the maximum difference in response duration produced by the biphasic and monophasic waveforms was 58.6 + / - 10.0 msec ( p less than 0.001 ) . this maximum difference occurred 10 msec before the end of the s1 refractory period . the longer response durations produced by biphasic s2 also produced longer refractoriness to the s3 stimulus . the maximum difference in total refractoriness to s3 of 51.8 + / - 2.8 msec ( p less than 0.002 ) occurred at the same s1s2 coupling interval as the maximum difference in s2 response duration . prolonged refractoriness may protect ventricular cells from refibrillation wavefronts and act as the cellular basis for greater biphasic waveform defibrillation efficacy . 
human leukoagglutinating antibody evokes cooperative leukotriene synthesis in pulmonary microvasculature . model of transfusion-related acute lung injury . leukoagglutinating antibodies have been implicated in the development of transfusion-related acute lung injury . in the present study , human neutrophil leukotriene generation was provoked by an anti-5b immunoglobulin g , isolated from a multiparous donor plasma that caused noncardiogenic lung edema during transfusion therapy . in 5b-positive polymorphonuclear neutrophils ( pmns ) , the antibody stimulated marked arachidonic acid metabolism , dependent on the presence of plasma as the complement source . quantity and profile of lipid mediators ( leukotriene b4 and its omega-oxidation products , 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid , and nonenzymatic hydrolysis products of leukotriene a4 ) corresponded to those repeatedly described after pmn in vitro stimulation with the artificial calcium ionophore a23187 . anti-5b challenge of pmns sequestered in the microvasculature of perfused rabbit lungs did , however , induce a markedly modified metabolite profile . nonenzymatic hydrolysis products of leukotriene a4 were not detected , and 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid was markedly reduced . in contrast , cysteinyl leukotrienes were measured as predominant compounds , with rapid appearance of leukotriene c4 and more protracted generation of leukotriene e4 . leukotriene b4 and its omega-oxidation products were released with similar kinetics , but in lower amounts , as compared with the isolated pmn stimulation . anti-5b challenge of pmns coincubated with pulmonary artery endothelial cells in vitro , but not stimulation of either cell type alone , provoked marked generation of cysteinyl leukotrienes . these findings suggest modulation of pmn 5-lipoxygenase metabolism in favor of leukotriene a4 transfer to adjacent acceptor cells with subsequent enzymatic conversion to cysteinyl leukotrienes under conditions of lung vascular sequestration . endothelial cells appear to serve as predominant cooperative cells under circumstances of blood-free lung perfusion . pmn-related transcellular eicosanoid synthesis may be involved in the pathogenesis of transfusion-evoked acute lung injury . 
endothelium-dependent responses in long-term human coronary artery bypass grafts . in the present study , responses of long-term human coronary artery bypass grafts ( cabgs ) to known endothelium-dependent vasodilators , acetylcholine , calcium ionophore a23187 , thrombin , and histamine , as well as authentic nitric oxide , the putative endothelium-derived relaxing factor , were studied . sixteen cagbs were isolated within 1-2 hours from hearts of 14 patients receiving a cardiac transplant . a total of 109 ring segments were prepared from these cabgs and studied in vitro . the duration of the cabgs ranged from 7 months to 12 years . addition of acetylcholine ( 0.01-10 microm ) , calcium ionophore a23187 ( 0.01-1 .0 microm ) , thrombin ( 0.01-1 .0 unit/ml ) , and histamine ( 0.01-1 .0 microm ) consistently produced a dose - and endothelium-dependent relaxation , reaching a maximum of -35.3 + / - 3.3 % , -45.3 + / - 5.5 % , -26.9 + / - 4.8 % , and -17.8 + / - 2.5 % ( mean + / - sem ) , respectively . no significant difference was observed among the cabgs with different duration of transplantation , whereas the relaxant responses of different segments along the entire length of a cabg were markedly different . these latter differences in the endothelium-dependent responses appear to correlate inversely with the development of intimal proliferative lesions in these cabgs . addition of nitric oxide ( 0.01-10 microm ) produced a potent dose - and endothelium-independent relaxation , which was also slightly depressed in cabgs with severe intimal proliferation . these results demonstrate that long-term transplanted human saphenous vein grafts retain their endothelium-dependent responses and that development of severe intimal proliferative lesions , rather than the duration of the grafts , result in marked alterations in the reactivity of these transplanted cabgs . 
oral clofilium produces sustained lowering of defibrillation energy requirements in a canine model . the effect of long-term oral administration of antiarrhythmic drugs on defibrillation energy requirements is not well understood . we examined the effect of clofilium , a drug that prolongs cardiac action potential duration without slowing cardiac conduction , on defibrillation energy requirements and ventricular effective refractory periods in a canine model during a 3-week period . epicardial patch electrodes were implanted in 12 dogs , and baseline testing was conducted under fentanyl anesthesia on day 7 . an oral clofilium ( 100 mg/day ) regimen was started on day 8 . six clofilium-treated and six control dogs underwent repeated testing on days 14 , 21 , and 28 after surgery . truncated trapezoidal shocks were given repeatedly at various stored energies in random order ; delivered current and impedance were measured ; and delivered energy was calculated . the energy and current for 50 % success in defibrillation ( e50 and i50 , respectively ) were determined . for control animals , e50 increased by a mean 34 + / - 78 % , 60 + / - 83 % , and 69 + / - 122 % compared with baseline ( day 7 ) on days 14 , 21 , and 28 , respectively . in contrast , e50 in clofilium-treated dogs decreased by 39 + / - 62 % , 24 + / - 33 % , and 32 + / - 15 % on days 14 , 21 , and 28 , respectively . mean current requirements ( i50 ) remained relatively stable compared with baseline in control animals ( -7 + / - 39 % , +25 + / - 36 % , +40 + / - 75 % on days 14 , 21 , and 28 , respectively ) . after clofilium administration i50 decreased by 36 + / - 22 % , 32 + / - 17 % , and 33 + / - 17 % on days 14 , 21 , and 28 , respectively . 
magnitude and time course of extracellular potassium inhomogeneities during acute ischemia in pigs . effect of verapamil . prior studies have demonstrated the presence of inhomogeneities in myocardial [ k + ] e after serial 10-minute occlusions of the left anterior descending coronary artery in the pig , even within restricted locations of an ischemic zone . these inhomogeneities are thought to underlie the electrophysiological abnormalities responsible for lethal ventricular arrhythmias through reentrant and nonreentrant pathways , but a clear association has not been demonstrated . as a prerequisite to establishing this association , these studies were performed to establish measurement standards for [ k + ] e inhomogeneity , to quantify the magnitude and time course of these inhomogeneities , to determine whether the inhomogeneities are greater in the ischemic border where lethal ventricular arrhythmias are known to originate , and to assess the effect of a known antifibrillatory drug on [ k + ] e inhomogeneities . [ k + ] e ( expressed as the change in potassium equilibrium potential , dek [ mv ] ) was measured in 15 preparations using an average of 17 closely spaced , critically calibrated k ( + ) - sensitive electrodes having stable response characteristics . a series of four 10-minute occlusions each separated by a 50-minute reperfusion period were performed in each study . in half of the studies , intravenous verapamil ( 0.2 mg/kg bolus followed by 0.0065 mg/kg/hr ) was administered before the fourth occlusion . in nine studies ( five control and four verapamil ) , electrodes were placed in the marginal ischemic zone ( from 2 mm outside to 5 mm inside the visible cyanotic border ) . in six other studies ( three control and three verapamil ) , electrodes were placed in the central ischemic zone ( 10-20 mm within the ischemic region ) . we determined that the standard deviation is the best measure of inhomogeneity and that 12 equivalent measurement sites are required to estimate it with a satisfactory degree of statistical confidence . we found that after 10 minutes of ischemia , mean dek was 1.6 times greater in the central than in the marginal ischemic zone , whereas mean standard deviation at the same time was 1.5 times greater in the marginal than in the central ischemic zone . verapamil reduced mean dek and mean standard deviation in both ischemic zones for most of the occlusion by delaying the rise in [ k + ] e and the inhomogeneity of that rise by 3-5 minutes . comparisons of mean dek with mean standard deviation revealed a steep linear relation in the marginal zone and a curvilinear relation in the central zone where higher mean dek values were not accompanied by higher values for mean standard deviation . furthermore , we determined that these relations were not altered by verapamil . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
intra-arterial urokinase as the initial therapy for acutely ischemic lower limbs acute ischemia of the lower limb remains a significant risk to both life and limb . mortality rates of approximately 10-30 % and amputation rates of the same magnitude in the survivors are repeatedly reported despite advances in medical and surgical techniques . our experience , which utilized percutaneous intra-arterial thrombolysis as the initial treatment in 72 instances ( 63 patients ) , has resulted in a markedly lower mortality rate of 1.6 % and a lower amputation rate of 8.5 % in the survivors . careful categorization by clinical degree of ischemia indicates that 82 % of the cases were either threatened or irreversible limb ischemia . the initial treatment with thrombolysis did not preclude subsequent prompt surgical treatment when necessary ; in these cases , thrombolysis promoted improved surgical results ( 100 % ) when it was successful . it markedly reduced the need for urgent surgery , usually simplified the subsequent surgical approach , diminished the overall need for surgery , and often accomplished a successful outcome alone ( 31 % ) . significant bleeding was not noted during subsequent surgical procedures and was noted in only 2.8 % of the cases . confirmation of these results and further improvements in technique might justify the use of an initially high-dose urokinase transcatheter infusion regimen as the initial treatment of choice for acute lower-limb ischemia . 
intravascular stents . general principles and status of lower-extremity arterial applications . the two major types of intravascular stents are balloon expandable and self-expanding . many animal and , more recently , clinical studies have begun to delineate the real and potential roles of stents . although the ideal intravascular stent does not exist , it is possible to identify characteristics of the hypothetical ideal stent . iliac and femoropopliteal arterial applications of metallic stents are reviewed . stents have proved useful in postangioplasty elastic recoil , in some cases of postangioplasty restenosis , and in angioplasty-induced dissection . their role in primary angioplasty procedures is still uncertain , although in iliac angioplasty the immediate hemodynamic effects of angioplasty plus stenting are superior to those of angioplasty alone . it is clear that metallic stents have not solved the problem of postangioplasty restenosis , as restenosis still occurs in a significant number of cases . this problem is particularly evident in the femoropopliteal stent procedures , in which angiographic restenosis ( more than 50 % single diameter stenosis ) at 6 months after treatment has occurred in approximately 30 % of cases . the existence of poststenting restenosis , which often involves the stented segment , underscores the need for better drug regimens in angioplasty and for better understanding of the intimal fibrocellular proliferative response of the vessel wall to injury . although potentially very useful , biodegradable stents are still a dream whose realization will demand the development of better materials . 
results and complications of angioplasty in fibromuscular disease . percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( pta ) was used to treat 66 patients with 85 renal artery stenoses due to fibromuscular dysplasia . the hypertension was refractory to medical management in 46 patients , and the initial success rate was 100 % . clinical follow-up has been obtained in all patients , who were followed for as long as 121 months . the recurrence rates were 8 % of lesions and 10 % of patients . cumulative patency rate predicted for 10 years was 87.07 % . the mean systolic pressure decreased by 52 mm hg and the mean diastolic pressure decreased by 35 mm hg in response to treatment . twenty-six patients ( 39 % ) were cured , 39 ( 59 % ) were classified as improved , and one ( 2 % ) did not respond to pta . fourteen of the patients also had elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels . renal function was improved in 86 % of the patients and stabilized in 14 % of the patients . analysis of the long-term results suggests that pta should be the initial treatment for choice of patients with fibromuscular dysplasia in the renal arteries . 
optimum results of the surgical treatment of carotid territory ischemia . continuing controversy over the role of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is based largely on reports in which high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates obviate possible long-term benefit from the procedure . the purpose of this review is to examine optimal results of carotid surgery in order to describe the potential for the procedure in stroke prevention . optimal surgical results are compared with optimal medical results in the therapy of symptomatic patients and with optimal nonsurgical results in the therapy of asymptomatic patients . factors common to series with excellent results , such as patient selection and operative technique , are examined , and problems such as recurrent carotid stenosis and coexisting coronary disease , which continue to plague even the best surgical series , are discussed . 
morphological observations late ( greater than 30 days ) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty . this report describes clinical , morphological , and histological findings late ( 1.6-24 .1 months [ average , 8.2 months ] ) after clinically successful coronary balloon angioplasty in 20 necropsied patients with coronary angioplasty restenosis . clinical evidence of restenosis occurred in 14 ( 70 % ) of patients , including six patients with sudden coronary death . of the 20 patients , 14 ( 70 % ) had cardiac causes of death and six ( 30 % ) had noncardiac causes of death . two major subgroups of histological findings were observed : 1 ) intimal proliferation ( 60 % ) and 2 ) atherosclerotic plaques only . of the eight sites with atherosclerotic plaques only , six were eccentric lesions and two were concentric lesions . no morphological evidence of previous angioplasty injury ( cracks , breaks , or tears ) was observed in the eight patients with atherosclerotic plaques only . proposed mechanisms for the development of intimal proliferation involve the reaction of smooth muscle cells and platelets , whereas elastic recoil of overstretched eccentric or concentric atherosclerotic lesions represents the most likely explanation for the findings in the latter subgroup . on the basis of these morphological findings at angioplasty restenosis sites , specific treatment strategies for coronary artery balloon angioplasty restenosis are proposed . 
clinical and anatomical considerations for nonoperative therapy in tibial disease and the results of angioplasty . for a 6-year period , 96 patients had 146 below-knee angioplasties . there were 31 total occlusions and 95 multiple stenoses . all patients had distal ischemia , and 40 % had gangrene . the primary success rate was 97 % , and the 2-year limb salvage rate was 83 % . the ankle/brachial index increased from a mean of 0.25 before the procedure to 0.62 afterward . at 2 years ( 35 patients ) , the mean ankle/brachial index was 0.55 . for the same period , 320 femorodistal bypasses were performed . the results of angioplasty are comparable to those of surgery , but angioplasty is only suitable in about 20-30 % of patients presenting with isolated tibial disease . suitable lesions are five or fewer stenoses and occlusions 5 cm or less in length . 
efficacy of thrombolysis in infrainguinal bypass grafts . the initial outcome of a consecutive series of 43 intra-arterial urokinase infusions for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts in 37 patients was analyzed . there was an 88 % ( 38/43 ) technical success rate ( complete clot lysis ) and a 74 % ( 32/43 ) clinical success rate . complications occurred in 10 patients ( 23 % ) and were related to bleeding in four patients ( 9 % ) . patient age , graft age , location , material , and the duration of occlusion did not significantly influence the initial outcome , although there was a trend toward a higher bleeding complication rate among grafts less than or equal to 1 month of age at the time of thrombolysis . a second group of 43 infrainguinal grafts successfully recanalized using regional infusions of thrombolytic agents were followed for long-term patency . this group included 32 grafts successfully treated with urokinase and 11 grafts recanalized with streptokinase . by life-table analysis there was a 55.6 % 1-year patency , which fell to 42.4 % at 4 years . vein grafts had significantly ( p = 0.01 ) better long-term patency than prosthetic grafts ( 69.3 % versus 28.6 % at 30 months ) . grafts with flow-limiting lesions identified and corrected by angioplasty or surgery also had significantly ( p = 0.01 ) better long-term patency than those without such lesions ( 79.0 % versus 9.8 % at 2 years ) . based on the results of our study compared with a survey of long-term results following secondary surgical procedures for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts , thrombolysis can be recommended in several circumstances . thrombolysis is indicated for thrombosed vein grafts or when thrombus is present in distal runoff vessels . thrombosed prosthetic grafts should be replaced by autogenous vein grafts whenever possible . 
limits of brain tolerance to daily increments in serum sodium in chronically hyponatraemic rats treated with hypertonic saline or urea : advantages of urea . 1 . at present there is no consensus about the optimal management of hyponatraemia to prevent demyelinating brain lesions . we have evaluated in a large series of rats ( n = 136 ) the protective role of urea for the brain in the treatment of severe chronic hyponatraemia . urea ( group i , n = 51 ) was compared with hypertonic saline in boluses ( group ii , n = 46 ) and with hypertonic saline in divided doses ( group iii , n = 39 ) . treatment was administered intraperitoneally over 48 h. the severity of brain lesions was assessed by histological scoring . 2 . for 95 % of the injured animals treated with hypertonic saline , brain lesions appeared for an absolute increment in serum na + concentration ( delta sna + ) of 20 mmol day-1 l-1 . above this limit neurological injuries gradually worsened , and beyond a transition zone ( delta sna + greater than or equal to 20 less than or equal to 23 mmol day-1 l-1 ) 89 % ( group iii ) to 100 % ( group ii ) of the animals were injured . this limit can be reached rapidly , as attested by the comparable severity of brain lesions observed in group ii ( mean delta sna + 1 h after a bolus injection , 19 mmol/l ) and in group iii ( mean delta sna + 1 h after an injection , 2 mmol/l ) , both groups achieving similar daily delta sna + . 3 . a correction above the threshold of 20 mmol day-1 l-1 is as toxic during the first 24 h as during the second day of the treatment . 
the role of sphincteroplasty for fecal incontinence reevaluated : a prospective physiologic and functional review . sixteen female patients ( mean age 54.1 years ; range 34-74 years ) with a 9.8-year ( range 1-25 years ) history of incontinence to solid stool underwent overlapping sphincteroplasty with internal sphincter imbrication without fecal diversion . all patients were prospectively evaluated with preoperative anorectal manometry , electromyography , and pudendal nerve motor latency assessment , postoperative anorectal manometry , and preoperative and postoperative functional evaluation . mean and maximal resting pressures increased from 30 mm hg and 49 mm hg preoperatively to 40 mm hg and 57 mm hg , respectively , postoperatively . likewise , mean and maximal squeeze pressures increased from 27 mm hg and 48 mm hg preoperatively to 39 mm hg and 73 mm hg , respectively , postoperatively ( p less than 0.01 ) . furthermore , anal canal high pressure zone length was increased by sphincteroplasty from a mean of 0.9 cm ( range 0-3 cm ) to a mean of 2.1 cm ( range 1-4 cm ) . these objective physiologic improvements correlated well with subjective functional improvement . subjectively , functional outcome was rated by patients as excellent in 38 percent , good in 38 percent , fair in 19 percent , and poor in only 5 percent of cases . overlapping sphincteroplasty with internal sphincter imbrication improves both the anal sphincter physiologic profile and fecal continence . 
dna ploidy pattern in rectal carcinoid tumors . the nuclear dna pattern of 22 rectal carcinoids was determined by cytophotometry of paraffin embedded tissues . the results were compared with clinical as well as histopathologic features of the tumor . three of the carcinoids with synchronous or metachronous metastasis had aneuploid dna pattern , whereas 19 tumors with no metastasis showed diploid dna pattern . no other single clinical or pathologic feature of the tumor could predict more accurately the malignant potential and the subsequent course of the rectal carcinoid . it is concluded that dna aneuploidy in rectal carcinoid tumors is not so rare as indicated by earlier studies and that it is a factor of significant prognostic value . 
treatment of anorectal abscess with or without primary fistulectomy . results of a prospective randomized trial . to determine whether primary fistulectomy should be performed or not at the time of incision and drainage , a prospective , randomized study in 70 patients with anorectal abscess was conducted . thirty-six patients underwent incision , drainage and fistulectomy with primary partial internal spincterectomy ( group i ) , whereas in 34 patients anorectal abscess was treated by incision and drainage alone ( group ii ) . after a median follow-up of 42.5 months , the combined recurrence or persistence rate was 2.9 percent in group i and 40.6 percent in group ii ( p less than 0.0003 , log-rank test ) . recurrent abscesses or persistent fistulas were treated by secondary partial internal sphincterectomy . comparing anal continence before and 1 year after definite treatment , we found increased anal function disturbances in 39.4 percent of the patients in group i and in 21.4 percent of the patients in group ii ( p less than 0.106 , fisher-exact test ) . the combined recurrence or persistence rate of 40.6 percent indicates that more than half of the patients with anorectal abscess will have no further problems after simple incision and drainage . this finding , as well as the increased anal function disturbances after partial internal sphincterectomy ( either primary or secondary ) are the main reasons to reserve fistulectomy as a second stage procedure if necessary . 
the role of lasers in hemorrhoidectomy . eighty-eight patients who received treatment for hemorrhoids were randomized into two groups . group a received the nd-yag laser phototherapy for internal hemorrhoid combined with the co2 laser for external hemorrhoid . group b was treated with closed ferguson hemorrhoidectomy . the need of narcotic injections for pain relief was 11 percent in group a vs. 56 percent in group b ( p less than 0.001 ) . the incidence of postoperative urinary retention was 7 percent in group a , vs. 39 percent in group b ( p less than 0.05 ) . no enema was required postoperatively in group a , vs. 9 percent in group b ; 84 percent of the patients in group a were discharged on the second postoperative day , vs. 83 percent of the patients in group b discharged on the fifth postoperative day . the cost was 20 percent less in the former group . the overall complications in both groups were insignificant in difference , except prolonged wound healing in group a was noted . one year follow-up showed satisfactory results . laser treatment is considered one of the alternatives to conventional treatment , but the surgeon needs to be aware of laser hazards . 
care of diabetic patients by optometrists in new york state . objective : this study was undertaken to learn about the involvement of optometrists in the eye care of diabetic patients in new york and to collect baseline data for planning intervention programs in diabetic eye disease . research design and methods : this study was conducted by a mail survey being sent to all optometrists in new york whom we could identify through state sources ( n = 2270 ) . three follow-up mailings were conducted . results : eighty-six percent who received our mailing responded , 87 % of whom reported that they see diabetic patients . analysis was confined to this 87 % . routine retinal examinations were provided by 68 % of the respondents who see diabetic patients , 62 % of whom dilate the pupils . sixty-eight percent who see diabetic patients diagnose retinopathy solely by their own examination , and 60 % of these dilate . follow-up of retinopathy was provided by 15 % of optometrists who see diabetic patients , 90 % of whom dilate the pupils of their diabetic patients . twenty-five percent of respondents who see diabetic patients refer them to an ophthalmologist for diagnosis of retinopathy , and 67 % refer all retinopathy patients to an ophthalmologist for follow-up . although 91 % of respondents recommended eye examinations at least annually for diabetic patients , only 68 % specifically recommended annual examinations through dilated pupils . those who dilate were significantly more likely to recommend annual dilated examinations than those who do not dilate , regardless of practice setting . conclusions : these findings indicate that optometrists as a group see many diabetic patients . intervention strategies should include increased emphasis on the use of dilation when examining diabetic patients and annual dilated retinal examinations . 
major cross-country differences in risk of dying for people with iddm . diabetes epidemiology research international mortality study group . objective : little is known concerning global differences in the risk of premature death for individuals developing youth-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) . the diabetes epidemiology research international study was developed to examine the mortality patterns of four population-based cohorts of iddm cases from allegheny county , pennsylvania ( n = 1000 ) , finland ( n = 5146 ) , israel ( n = 681 ) , and japan ( n = 1428 ) . research design and methods : all subjects were diagnosed as having diabetes , were less than 18 yr old at onset , were taking insulin at the time of hospital discharge , and were diagnosed between 1 january 1965 and 31 december 1979 . the living status as of 1 january 1985 was determined . results : overall , there were 182 deaths . life-table analysis revealed that at 20-yr duration of diabetes , 5.5 % of the cohort had died in allegheny county in contrast to only 3.1 % in finland and 4.6 % in israel ( p less than 0.01 ) . follow-up for an additional 3 yr in the united states and finland revealed major differences in the 30 - to 39-yr age-group , with 3.9 times greater premature mortality in the u.s. cohort compared with the finnish group ( overall mortality 2.3 vs. 0.6 % , respectively ) . the japanese cohort was developed in a somewhat different manner than the other three ; therefore , the populations of the u.s. , finland , and israel were reconfigured to make them directly comparable to that of japan . the japanese cohort exhibited markedly higher age-adjusted mortality rates ( n/100 ,000 person-yr of diabetes ) than the other three ( japan 681 , u.s. 230 , finland 171 , and israel 131 ) . conclusions : these data indicate that young adult iddm subjects are at an increased risk of premature death , there are differences in the mortality risk across countries , and both the u.s. and japan have the major problem of an apparently excessive premature death rate among young people who have diabetes . 
effect of motilin on gastric emptying in patients with diabetic gastroparesis . objectives : because disturbances of gastric emptying are a serious complication in insulin-dependent diabetic subjects with regard to the maintenance of good metabolic control , we wanted to assess the effectiveness of motilin as a potential treatment for gastric emptying disturbances . research design and methods : the intestinal hormone motilin has been shown to accelerate gastric emptying in healthy subjects . therefore , we examined the effect of intravenous motilin on gastric emptying of a 99mtc colloid-labeled semisolid test meal in 9 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with diabetic gastroparesis . all patients had a significantly delayed gastric emptying rate compared with a group of 11 healthy control subjects . results : during the infusion of motilin , gastric emptying was accelerated , and it was no longer significantly different from control values . conclusions : these data demonstrate that motilin and related compounds such as erythromycin derivatives could be useful for the treatment of disturbed gastric emptying in diabetic subjects . 
learning disabilities in epilepsy : neurophysiological aspects . subclinical generalized spike-wave discharges are often accompanied by transitory cognitive impairment , demonstrable by psychological testing during eeg recording . transitory cognitive impairment is demonstrated most readily by difficult tasks and during generalized regular spike-wave bursts lasting for more than 3 s , but can also be found during briefer and even focal discharges . that this is not simply a consequence of global inattention is shown by the fact that focal discharges exhibit some specificity : left-sided focal spiking is more likely to produce errors on verbal tasks , for instance , whereas right-sided discharges are more often accompanied by impairment in handling nonverbal material . both learning difficulties in general and specific abnormal patterns of cognitive functioning are well documented in children with epilepsy and are most pronounced in those with frequent interictal discharges . however , there is now evidence that intermittent cognitive impairment due to the discharges themselves contributes significantly to such neurophysiological abnormalities . the significance of transitory cognitive impairment accompanying subclinical eeg discharges for everyday functioning is uncertain , but there is experimental evidence that subclinical discharges may be accompanied by disruption of educational skills in children or by impairment of driving performance in motorists . in some individuals , suppression of discharges by antiepileptic drugs has demonstrably improved psychological function , but further work is required to determine the indications for such treatment . 
education and epilepsy : assessment and remediation . learning difficulties in children with epilepsy may be caused by brain damage and should be investigated . in many cases , however , seizures and/or electroencephalographic ( eeg ) findings are the only signs of pathology . frequency and type of seizures may be determining factors that should , if necessary , be evaluated by long-term eeg monitoring , preferably during school performance or in conjunction with neuropsychological assessment . this may prove that subclinical epileptiform discharges in the eeg can adversely affect the child 's performance . secondary psychological problems in epilepsy patients , combined with side effects of antiepileptic drugs , may cause or heighten learning problems . prophylactic control of seizures with one appropriate drug may alleviate learning problems . computerized neuropsychological testing with simultaneous eeg recording may reveal the influence of epileptiform discharges on cognitive function and also help to evaluate the effects of antiepileptic drugs . objective assessment of subclinical epileptiform activity makes it easier to treat the pathology identified by the eeg with optimal dosage of the most appropriate drug . a balance is required because epileptiform discharges and even occasional seizures may be less disabling than side effects from large doses of several drugs . information to the school and the parents concerning the patient 's abilities and limitations may be as important as seizure control . specialized teaching should be started early , when necessary , with the patient integrated into a normal school if possible . however , good functioning in a special school is preferable to marginal functioning in a normal school . 
neuropsychological assessment of cognitive functioning in children with epilepsy . the variety of cognitive dysfunctions related to learning disabilities in children with epilepsy have been studied by linking electroencephalogram ( eeg ) and computerized neuropsychological testing . this showed that " subclinical " discharges impaired performance in 61 % of the patients on a simple and a choice reaction time test , although some discharges lasted 1 s only . neuropsychological investigation of subclinical eeg discharges may help to determine their adverse effect on learning . 
cognitive deficits in children : adaptive behavior and treatment techniques . impaired cognitive functioning impedes the development of age-appropriate adaptive behavior , thus adding to the burdens of many children with epilepsy . detailed neuropsychological assessment can identify the underlying ability-related impairments that contribute to the adaptive behavior deficiencies evidenced , particularly in the home and school settings . this information can serve as the basis for a multidisciplinary treatment plan tailored to individual needs . ideally , the need for such a treatment plan should be perceived early in childhood , so that it can be developed and applied preventively . the same remedial principles also apply in older children and are here set out in detail . 
educational policies . it is vital that teachers , parents , and health professionals recognize the major educational problems that affect students with epilepsy . children with epilepsy should be placed in the least restrictive schooling environment so that social , emotional , and educational requirements can be met in a setting best suited to the individual 's present needs and future development . personal assessment and monitoring of progress form an equally important part of a child 's educational program in integrated schools , but there is a need to develop suitable instruments to assist teachers in their assessments and decision making . in australia , the national epilepsy association has developed an " alert kit " based on the epilepsy foundation of americas " school alert kit " to provide basic medical information on epilepsy to teachers and pupils . 
neuropsychological aspects of learning disabilities in epilepsy . cognitive impairment is regarded as the link between epileptic conditions and the inability to learn in school . the neuropsychological approach to learning disabilities in epilepsy , therefore , first concentrates on analyzing the differential effects of epileptic factors on cognitive function . the impact of seizure activity , localization of epileptogenic foci , and antiepileptic treatment on cognitive functioning can be evaluated based upon the results of continuous assessment with a computerized neuropsychological test system . second , learning disabilities may be evaluated on observations made during classroom performance . three issues seem to predominate in learning studies among disabled children with epilepsy : test-retest variability , deterioration , and the supposed specificity of the learning disabilities . 
life table analysis of fecundity in intravenously gonadotropin-releasing hormone-treated patients with normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic amenorrhea . the success of pulsatile intravenous ( iv ) gonadotropin-releasing hormone ( gnrh ) treatment in patients with normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic amenorrhea was studied retrospectively using life table analysis . two hundred forty-four ovulatory cycles in 48 normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic patients were evaluated . the cumulative conception rate after 12 cycles was 93 % , with a mean conception rate of 22.5 % per cycle . comparing cycles 1 to 6 with cycles 7 to 12 , no significant difference in conception rate was observed . subdivisions were made relative to the presence of additional infertility factors , history of weight loss , actual weight , estrogenic status , and primary versus secondary amenorrhea . the life table curves of patients either with or without other infertility factors were significantly different . no statistically significant differences were found in the other subdivisions . it is concluded that iv gnrh therapy is highly successful in patients with normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic amenorrhea , especially if no other infertility factors are present . 
response of plasma endorphins , corticotropin , cortisol , and luteinizing hormone in the corticotropin-releasing hormone stimulation test in eumenorrheic and amenorrheic athletes . we compared pituitary response in the corticotropin-releasing hormone ( crh ) test between 9 eumenorrheic and 10 amenorrheic endurance athletes . the maximal oxygen capacity ( vo2max ) , determined using an exercise test on a bicycle ergometer , was larger in amenorrheic ( 62.7 + / - 1.0 se ml/min per kg ) than in eumenorrheic ( 54.7 + / - 2.3 ml/min per kg ) athletes . a 100 micrograms bolus of human crh was administered intravenously , and blood samples were collected at -15 , 0 , 30 , 60 , 90 , and 120 minutes . the mean basal concentrations of endorphins , adrenocorticotropic hormone ( acth ) , and cortisol did not show significant differences between the groups . the cumulative response of acth in the crh test was larger in eumenorrheic ( 7.7 + / - 1.3 pmol/l ) than in amenorrheic ( 3.6 + / - 0.6 pmol/l ) athletes , but the response of endorphins and cortisol did not differ between the groups . a negative correlation was found between the vo2max and the acth response during the crh test in the total group of athletes . these findings indicated changes in the function of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in amenorrheic athletes that can be attributed to intensive training . 
evaluation and therapy of breakthrough bleeding in women using a triphasic oral contraceptive . this study was designed to investigate the incidence and pattern of breakthrough bleeding ( btb ) in 1,259 women who were prescribed for the first time a triphasic oral contraceptive ( oc , 7-7-7 ) and to evaluate a hypothesis of management for btb persisting after three cycles . the new users were compared with a control group of 696 women who had used various ocs for at least 6 months . the incidence of btb in the control group was 16.8 % and in the new users was 24.9 % , 17.5 % , and 15.3 % in the first 3 months , respectively . breakthrough bleeding occurred late in the 7-7-7 package in 58 % and early or midway through the package in 17 % and 25 % , respectively . we hypothesized that late-package btb would improve if the patient was switched to a monophasic pill similar to the relatively estrogenic formulation of the beginning of the package and vice versa for early or midpackage btb . seventy women with btb at 3 months were randomly given 0.5 / 35 or 1/35 for a further 3 months . breakthrough bleeding was more likely ( p less than 0.05 ) to improve in women switched to 1/35 compared with 0.5 / 35 regardless of where in the package btb occurred . 
diagnosis and prevalence of persistent chlamydia infection in infertile women : tissue culture , direct antigen detection , and serology . specimens for chlamydial culture , direct fluorescent antibody ( dfa ) test , two enzyme immunoassays ( eia ) for antigen detection , and serum for chlamydial antibodies were collected from 256 infertile women . specimens were taken from the tubes during tuboplasty and from the cervix and endometrium during laparoscopy or tuboplasty . antibodies to chlamydia trachomatis were found four times more often in patients with signs of prior pelvic inflammatory disease ( pid ) than in infertile women with normal pelvic findings . only 48 ( 37 % ) of 131 patients with signs of prior pid had a history of pid . ten or more c. trachomatis elementary bodies ( ebs ) per smear were found in 21 ( 8.2 % ) of 256 patients . six patients had a positive culture or a positive antigen eia test . all six had high numbers of ebs in the dfa test . we conclude that routine culture and eia antigen tests detect only a minority of persistent chlamydia infections in this population , but subjective factors in the interpretation of dfa methods must be considered . 
synergistic effects of interceed ( tc7 ) and heparin in reducing adhesion formation in the rabbit uterine horn model . surgical adjuvants are commonly employed to reduce the frequency of postoperative adhesion development after reproductive pelvic surgery . the ability of indomethacin , promethazine dexamethasone , intralipid , progesterone , and heparin to reduce adhesion formation in combination with interceed ( tc7 ) ( johnson and johnson medical , inc. , new brunswick , nj ) , an absorbable barrier that alone reduces adhesion formation , was examined in a rabbit uterine horn model . a significant reduction in adhesion formation was only observed with the combination of interceed ( tc7 ) plus heparin . in addition studies , heparin delivery by intraperitoneal ( ip ) lavage , intravenous injection , or intra-abdominal instillation failed to demonstrate efficacy . similarly , heparin delivery with other barriers or ip instillates ( carboxymethylcellulose or 32 % dextran 70 ) failed to reduce adhesion formation . we conclude that interceed ( tc7 ) can be efficaciously utilized as a carrier to deliver heparin to traumatized surfaces , thereby reducing adhesion formation . 
decreased growth velocity before iddm onset . diabetes can retard growth . growth was studied prospectively in 12 nondiabetic identical twins aged less than 14 yr and in their co-twins with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) to determine whether changes in growth occur before the onset of iddm . seven of the 12 nondiabetic twins subsequently developed iddm ; the remainder are now unlikely to become diabetic . a significantly reduced growth velocity was observed more frequently in the nondiabetic twins ( 7 of 12 ) than in their diabetic co-twins ( 1 of 12 ; p = 0.03 ) . of the 7 nondiabetic twins who were prediabetic , 6 had a reduction in growth velocity to below the 3rd percentile before the onset of diabetes compared with 1 of their diabetic co-twins ( p = 0.03 ) . however , only 1 of the 5 nondiabetic twins who did not develop diabetes showed a reduction in growth velocity . the nadir of growth in the twins who developed diabetes occurred a mean of 1.2 yr before diagnosis ( range 0.3-2 .3 yr ) . all 7 of the prediabetic twins had islet cell antibodies when first seen , and 3 had them before they showed either decreased growth velocity or impaired glucose tolerance . in 4 prediabetic twins , the decreased growth preceded impaired glucose tolerance . the prediabetic twins tested had lower testosterone or estradiol levels at the time they showed decreased growth than their diabetic twins . we conclude that decreased growth velocity is an early sensitive marker of iddm . 
prospective randomized comparison of esophageal variceal sclerotherapy agents : sodium tetradecyl sulfate versus sodium morrhuate . we designed a prospective randomized study to evaluate differences in efficacy and complication rate between the two most commonly used sclerosing agents , sodium tetradecyl sulfate ( std ) and sodium morrhuate ( mor ) . of 41 patients with acute index variceal bleeding initially evaluated , 21 were randomized to receive 0.75 % std and 20 to receive 1.6 % mor diluted with 50 % dextrose . overall mortality for the std group was 38 % and that for the mor group was 25 % ( ns ) . control of acute bleeding was achieved in 86 % of the std patients and 90 % of the mor patients ( ns ) . overall , obliteration was achieved in only 33 % of the std group and 25 % of the mor group ; but in those patients who remained in the study over 3 months , obliteration was achieved in 87 and 83 % , respectively ( ns ) . there was a trend toward higher rebleeding in the std group compared with the mor group ( 81 % vs. 51 % ) ( p = 0.078 ) , but there was no significant difference between the std and mor patients with regard to transfusion requirements ( 8.4 units/patient vs. 8.7 units/patient ) , ulceration ( 53 % vs. 40 % ) , or stricture formation ( 9.5 % vs. 0.0 % ) . the results of this study suggest that std and mor are clinically equivalent sclerosing solutions , and that bias favoring use of one agent over the other may be unfounded . 
endoscopic variceal ligation in patients who have failed endoscopic sclerotherapy . endoscopic variceal ligation has been developed as an alternative to endoscopic sclerotherapy . we report a series of 12 men with a history of bleeding esophageal varices who were treated with endoscopic variceal ligation after they had failed sclerotherapy . hemostasis was achieved in all 10 patients who were bleeding at the time of initial endoscopy and again in those who subsequently re-bled . over a follow-up period of up to 22 months , varices have been and remain eradicated in five patients ; in four others , a reduction in grade was noted before death ( two patients ) , liver transplant , or loss to follow-up ( one patient each ) ; two patients died before they could be re-evaluated , while in the remaining patient , no reduction in variceal grade was noted before loss to follow-up . no complication was recorded after 35 endoscopic treatment sessions involving a total of 245 rubber band ligations . our results indicate that endoscopic variceal ligation may be used with success in patients who fail sclerotherapy . 
mucosal characteristics of pelvic ileal pouches . this study aimed to investigate the degree of colonic metaplasia in ileo - anal pouches . biopsy specimens from 25 patients with functioning pouches , eight of whom had pouchitis , were studied using routine histology , mucosal morphometry , mucin histochemistry , and immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies directed towards a 40kd colonic protein and a small bowel specific disaccharidase-sucrase isomaltase . thirteen patients ( including all eight with pouchitis ) had subtotal or total villous atrophy and crypt hyperplasia . in this group , nine had colorectal type sulphomucin and the 40kd colonic protein was detected in two . these changes were not observed in patients with less severe villous abnormalities . sucrase-isomaltase activity was , however , present in all 25 pouch specimens . we conclude that although some ileal pouches acquire certain colonic characteristics , complete colonic metaplasia does not occur . 
steroid hormone abnormalities in women with severe idiopathic constipation . patients with severe idiopathic constipation are almost exclusively women of reproductive age . to investigate the possibility of a sex hormone abnormality in this condition , we have compared a range of sex hormones during the follicular and luteal phases of the menstrual cycle in 23 healthy women ( mean age 33 years ) with those in 26 patients with severe idiopathic constipation ( mean age 32 years , spontaneous bowel frequency less than one per week ) . in the patients there was a reduction in the follicular phase of progesterone ( 4.5 v 4 nmol/l , p = 0.006 , median value , controls v patients ) , 17 hydroxyprogesterone ( 9.7 v 5.8 nmol/l , p = 0.01 ) , cortisol ( 387 v 245 nmol/l , p = 0.008 ) , testosterone ( 2.3 v 1.8 nmol/l , p less than 0.001 ) , androstenedione ( 10.3 v 8.4 nmol/l , p = 0.02 ) , and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate ( 5.1 v 3.0 mumol/l , p = 0.03 ) . in the luteal phase there was a reduction of oestradiol ( 483 v 350 pmol/l , p = 0.015 ) , cortisol ( 322 v 242 nmol/l , p = 0.047 ) , and testosterone ( 2.4 v 1.7 nmol/l , p = 0.003 ) . the concentrations of sex hormone binding globulin , prolactin , luteinising hormone , and follicle stimulating hormone were not significantly different in either phase of the cycle . women with severe idiopathic constipation have a consistent reduction in steroid hormones . 
successful control of bleeding from gastric antral vascular ectasia ( watermelon stomach ) by laser photocoagulation . we report a case of gastric antral vascular ectasia in a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis in whom chronic blood loss was a major problem . she required repeated blood transfusions that were complicated by reactions and still had persistent anaemia . she was treated with laser phototherapy in the form of quadrantic photocoagulation with a neodynium yttrium-aluminium-garnet laser . this greatly improved the endoscopic appearance of the gastric lesions and effectively controlled blood loss . she required no further transfusions . bleeding recurred after 11 months which was controlled by further laser photocoagulation . 
dislocation after primary arthroplasty for subcapital fracture of the hip . wide range of movement is a risk factor . dislocation is the most frequent serious complication following total hip replacement for subcapital femoral fracture . we report a prospective study , using matched groups , which compared the range of hip movement following hip replacement for arthritis and for fracture . the range of movement was significantly greater in the fracture group . we suggest that this is a predisposing factor for dislocation . 
the surgical treatment of ingrowing toenails . two prospective studies of ingrowing toenail management were conducted . in the first , 163 patients ( 204 ingrowing nail edges ) who had not had previous surgery were randomised and treated by total nail avulsion , nail edge excision , or nail edge excision with phenolisation of the germinal matrix ; recurrence rates one year postoperatively were 73 % , 73 % and 9 % respectively . in the second study , 63 ingrowing nail edges which had recurred after previous operations underwent nail edge excision and phenolisation . there was a 5 % recurrence rate and 5 % incidence of dystrophy of the nail one year after operation . 
fatigue failure of noncemented porous-coated implants . a retrieval study . the causes of mechanical failure of five noncemented porous-coated components were studied . there were two cobalt-chromium alloy and three titanium alloy implants which fractured after 12 to 48 months . the implants included one acetabular component , and one femoral condylar , one patellar and two tibial components . examination of the fractured surfaces revealed fatigue to be the mechanism of failure in all cases . the porous coating and the processes required for its fabrication had resulted in weakening and reduction of substrate thickness . additional factors were stress concentration due to limited , localised bone ingrowth , and some features of the design of the implants . 
sensitivity to titanium . a cause of implant failure ? tissues from five patients who underwent revision operations for failed total hip replacements were found to contain large quantities of particulate titanium . in four cases this metal must have come from titanium alloy screws used to fix the acetabular component ; in the fifth case it may also have originated from a titanium alloy femoral head . monoclonal antibody labelling showed abundant macrophages and t-lymphocytes , in the absence of b-lymphocytes , suggesting sensitisation to titanium . skin patch testing with dilute solutions of titanium salts gave negative results in all five patients . however , two of them had a positive skin test to a titanium-containing ointment . 
pseudo-abscess of the psoas bursa in failed double-cup arthroplasty of the hip . seven psoas bursae filled with purulent fluid and inspissated debris were revealed at revision operations for failed resurfacing hip arthroplasties , an incidence of 5.8 % in such revisions . histological and microbiological investigations demonstrated that the psoas bursa collections resulted from the tissue response to polyethylene wear debris . none was due to infection . 
micromotion of cemented and uncemented femoral components . we evaluated the initial stability of cemented and uncemented femoral components within the femoral canals of cadaver femurs during simulated single limb stance and stair climbing . both types were very stable in simulated single limb stance ( maximum micromotion of 42 microns for cemented and 30 microns for uncemented components ) . however , in simulated stair climbing , the cemented components were much more stable than the uncemented components ( 76 microns as against 280 microns ) . there was also greater variation in the stability of uncemented components in simulated stair climbing , with two of the seven components moving 200 microns or more . future implant designs should aim to improve the initial stability of cementless femoral components under torsional loads ; this should improve the chances of bony ingrowth . 
immunopathological response to loose cementless acetabular components . the membranes surrounding seven loose cementless acetabular implants were shown to contain polyethylene particles , birefringent in polarised light . three of these implants were made of titanium alloy and the membranes around these contained titanium particles as well . there was no metallosis around the four implants made of chromium-cobalt-steel alloy . both titanium and polyethylene particles caused migration , adherence and phagocytosis of cd11b-positive , peroxidase-negative macrophages . there were no histological signs of activation of the specific immune response ; neither interleukin-2 receptor-positive activated t cells nor pca-1 plasmablasts/plasma cells were present in the tissues . in cases of simple loosening , resident mesenchymal fibroblast-like cells were active . in aggressive granulomatosis , there were many macrophages and multinucleated giant cells but little fibroblast reaction . the clinical relevance of the findings is that the use of cementless prostheses is not a guarantee against adverse tissue reactions . 
repair of cartilage lesions using biological implants . a comparative histological and biomechanical study in goats . we report the experimental use of three different biological implants to restore articular surface defects : glutaraldehyde-fixed bovine meniscal xenograft , glutaraldehyde-fixed bovine costal cartilage xenograft , and viable osteochondral allografts . the grafts were implanted in the knees of 19 goats who were allowed free-field activity and were studied for up to one year . the natural articular surfaces of meniscal fibrocartilage provided excellent articular surfaces at all times . equally good articular surfaces were restored by host tissue growth covering costal cartilage grafts at six months , but by 12 months this surface had degenerated . the majority of the allografts survived and integrated with the host at six months , but many showed signs of failure at 12 months . only three out of seven ungrafted defects healed completely at six months and the healed surfaces were degenerating at 12 months . 
failure of internal fixation of displaced femoral neck fractures in rheumatoid patients . we reviewed the records and radiographs from 10 hospitals to identify 50 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) who had sustained 52 femoral neck fractures . most patients were female ( 88 % ) , elderly ( mean age 66 years ) and had had severe polyarticular disease for a mean duration of 16 years . over half had taken systemic corticosteroids , nearly all were severely osteopenic but few had rheumatoid changes in the hip . of the 20 fractures treated by internal fixation 12 had complications including nonunion ( 5 ) , osteonecrosis ( 5 ) , infection ( 1 ) , and intertrochanteric fracture ( 1 ) . only one of the nine undisplaced fractures required reoperation , but seven of the 11 displaced fractures had revision surgery . twenty fractures were treated by primary total hip arthroplasty with only one early complication . the other 12 fractures had been treated by hemiarthroplasty ( 9 ) , hip excision ( 1 ) or non-operatively ( 2 ) . our results suggest that , in elderly rheumatoid patients , severely displaced femoral neck fractures should be treated by total hip replacement . 
early complications in the operative treatment of ankle fractures . influence of delay before operation . we have reviewed the early complications of 121 surgically treated closed ankle fractures ; the complication rate was 30 % , with 14 major and 22 minor complications . fractures with skin blisters or abrasions had more than double the overall complication rate . fracture-dislocations had three times as many major complications as simple fractures , and those not fixed within 24 hours had a 44 % major complication rate compared to 5.3 % in those operated upon as emergencies . patients transferred from another medical facility had high complication rates , especially if they had fracture-dislocations . we conclude that operative treatment of ankle fractures must be delivered in a timely fashion , especially in severe fractures . we would caution against the practice of transferring patients with serious ankle fractures before completion of definitive care . 
conservative management or closed nailing for tibial shaft fractures . a randomised prospective trial . we performed a prospective randomised trial on matched groups of patients with displaced tibial shaft fractures to compare conservative treatment with closed intramedullary nailing . the results showed conclusively that intramedullary nailing gave more rapid union with less malunion and shortening . nailed patients had less time off work with a more predictable and rapid return to full function . we therefore consider that closed intramedullary nailing is the most efficient treatment for displaced fractures of the tibial shaft . 
the use of a tourniquet when plating tibial fractures . sixty closed fractures of the tibia were treated by open reduction and internal fixation with plates and screws . half the operations were performed with a thigh tourniquet and half without . in the tourniquet group , there were six cases with erythema and induration of the wound ; in the other group there were no such complications . despite negative bacterial cultures , superficial infection of the inflamed wounds was suspected . it is suggested that a tourniquet may predispose tissues to infection , and its use is not recommended during operations for internal fixation of the tibia . 
successful treatment of severe premenstrual syndrome by combined use of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist and estrogen/progestin although abolishment of ovarian cyclicity by the use of a long-acting gnrh agonist ( gnrh-a ) provides effective treatment for premenstrual syndrome ( pms ) , its use is limited by sequellae of the resultant hypoestrogenism . in this study the effects of estrogen/progestin replacement on the symptomatic improvement afforded by gnrh-a were evaluated in eight women with severe pms . the 8-month study design included 2 months of control , 2 months of gnrh-a alone , and 4 further months in which the exogenous steroids were replaced in randomized , double blind , placebo-controlled cross-over fashion using 1 month each of 1 ) conjugated equine estrogen ( cee ) on days 1-25 , 2 ) 10 mg medroxyprogesterone acetate ( mpa ) on days 16-25 , 3 ) cee ( days 1-25 ) plus mpa ( days 16-25 ) , and 4 ) placebo alone . mood and physical symptoms were measured daily on a valid and reliable instrument , the calendar of premenstrual experiences . as expected , administration of gnrh-a alone resulted in a 75 % improvement in luteal phase symptom scores ( 17.8 + / - 4.8 vs. 4.2 + / - 1.6 ; p less than 0.01 ) . combined sequential administration of cee and mpa in addition to gnrh-a was effective in maintaining the reduced symptom scores seen after gnrh-a alone and was superior to the addition of cee alone , mpa alone , or placebo . this combination of cee and mpa resulted in a 60 % improvement ( p less than 0.05 ) compared to the luteal phase of control months in both behavioral ( 14.1 + / - 3.9 vs. 4.2 + / - 0.8 ) and total ( 17.8 + / - 4.8 vs. 6.5 + / - 1.8 ) symptoms . we conclude that the undesirable consequence of ovarian steroid deficiency in the treatment of pms by gnrh-a can be overcome by the addition of sequential estrogen and progestogen replacements without significantly reducing the effectiveness of gnrh-a in this disorder . 
intranasal administration of neostigmine potentiates both intravenous and intranasal growth hormone ( gh ) - releasing hormone-induced gh release in short children . administration of cholinergic agonists increases both basal and gh-releasing hormone ( ghrh ) - induced gh secretion , probably acting via inhibition of endogenous somatostatin release . the aim of our study was to verify in two groups of children with idiopathic short stature the effect of intranasal administration of neostigmine ( inns ; 3 mg ) , a cholinesterase inhibitor , on basal gh levels as well as on the somatotroph response to ghrh when the peptide was administered either iv ( ivghrh ; 1 microgram/kg ) or intranasally ( inghrh ; 10 micrograms/kg ) . in group a ( n = 6 ; age , 10.6-16 .0 yr ) inns induced a significant gh increase [ inns vs. saline , area under the curve ( auc ; mean + / - sem ) , 263.7 + / - 60.2 vs. 73.8 + / - 3.1 micrograms/l . h ; p less than 0.03 ] and potentiated the somatotroph response to ivghrh ( inns with ivghrh vs. ivghrh , 1316 + / - 183.0 vs. 644.9 + / - 154.5 micrograms/l . h ; p less than 0.03 ) . in group b ( n = 6 ; age , 11.5-15 .9 yr ) ivghrh induced a gh rise clearly higher than that induced by inghrh ( 604.2 + / - 154.3 vs. 137.1 + / - 28.2 micrograms/l . h ; p less than 0.03 ) . administration of inns induced a gh rise similar to that occurring after inghrh ( auc , 239.2 + / - 69.5 micrograms/l . h ) and markedly increased the inghrh-induced gh response ( 482.4 + / - 103.6 micrograms/l . h ; p less than 0.05 and 0.03 vs. inns and inghrh , respectively ) , so that it overlapped with that induced by ivghrh alone . in conclusion , cholinergic agonists such as neostigmine are able to increase both basal and ghrh-induced gh secretion in short children even when given intranasally . combined intranasal administration of neostigmine and ghrh ( 10 micrograms/kg ) is able to induce a gh rise similar to that induced by ivghrh alone ( 1 microgram/kg ) , suggesting the potential usefulness of this combination cocktail and route of administration for the treatment of short stature . 
enhanced activity of the free radical producing enzyme xanthine oxidase in hypoxic rat liver . regulation and pathophysiologic significance . it has been widely proposed that conversion of xanthine dehydrogenase ( xdh ) to its free radical-producing form , xanthine oxidase ( xod ) , underlies ischemic/reperfusion injury , although the relationship of this conversion to hypoxia and its physiologic control have not been defined . this study details the time course and control of this enzymatic interconversion . in a functionally intact , isolated perfused rat liver model , mean % xod activity increased as a function of both the duration ( 25 to 45 % in 3 h ) and degree ( r = 0.97 ) of hypoxia . this process was markedly accelerated in ischemic liver by an overnight fast ( 45 vs. 30 % at 2 h ) , and by imposing a short period of in vivo ischemia ( cardiopulmonary arrest 72 % ) . moreover , only under these conditions was there a significant rise in the xod activity due to the conformationally altered xdh molecule ( xodc , 18 % ) , as well as concomitant morphologic injury . neither circulating white blood cells nor thrombosis appeared to contribute to the effects of in vivo ischemia on enzyme conversion . thus , it is apparent that conversion to the free radical-producing state , with high levels of xod activity and concurrent cellular injury , can be achieved during a relatively short period of hypoxia under certain well-defined physiologic conditions , in a time course consistent with its purported role in modulating reperfusion injury . these data also suggest that the premorbid condition of organ donors ( e.g. , nutritional status and relative state of hypoxia ) is important in achieving optimal organ preservation . 
screening of nineteen unrelated families with generalized resistance to thyroid hormone for known point mutations in the thyroid hormone receptor beta gene and the detection of a new mutation . generalized resistance to thyroid hormone ( grth ) is a syndrome characterized by impaired tissue responsiveness to thyroid hormone . two distinct point mutations in the hormone binding domain of the thyroid hormone receptor ( tr ) beta have recently been identified in two unrelated families with grth . one , mf , involves a replacement of the normal glycine-345 for arginine in exon 7 and another , mh , replaces the normal proline-453 for histidine in exon 8 . to probe for the presence of the mf and mh defect in 19 unrelated families with grth , we applied separate polymerase chain reactions using allele-specific oligonucleotide primers containing the normal and each of the two mutant nucleotides at the 3 ' - position . a total of 24 affected subjects and 13 normal family members were studied . the mode of inheritance was dominant in 13 families , was unknown in 5 families , and was clearly recessive in 1 family in which only the consanguineous subjects were affected . primers containing the substitutions specific for mf and mh amplified exons 7 and 8 , respectively , only in affected members of each of the two index families . primers containing the normal sequences amplified exons 7 and 8 of the tr beta gene in all subjects except affected members of one family . in this family with recessively inherited grth , neither exon could be amplified using any combinations of primers and dna blot revealed absence of all coding exons . these results indicate a major deletion of the tr beta gene , including both dna and hormone binding domains . since heterozygous members of this family are not affected , the presence of a single normal allele is sufficient for normal function of the tr beta . these data also support the hypothesis that in the dominant mode of grth inheritance the presence of an abnormal tr beta interferes with the function of the normal tr beta . distinct mutations are probably responsible for grth in unrelated families . 
murine mast cells synthesize basement membrane components . a potential role in early fibrosis . mast cells are resident in tissues , particularly in association with endothelial and epithelial cell basement membranes , and increase at sites of inflammation , injury , and fibrosis . although mast cells are known to both release and generate proinflammatory molecules in response to inflammatory stimuli , little is known about their normal biologic function . here we demonstrate that il-3-dependent mouse pt18 mast cells , mouse bone marrow-derived mast cells , and rat basophilic leukemia cells express large amounts of mrna for collagen iv , laminin , and heparan sulfate proteoglycan . western blot analysis confirmed that mast cells synthesize and secrete significant amounts collagen iv and laminin b1 and b2 chains . these data suggest that mast cells may contribute to normal tissue repair and/or the early overproduction of basement membrane components seen in a variety of fibrotic conditions . 
mutations in the k-ras oncogene induced by 1,2-dimethylhydrazine in preneoplastic and neoplastic rat colonic mucosa . these experiments were conducted to determine whether point mutations activating k-ras or h-ras oncogenes , induced by the procarcinogen 1,2-dimethylhydrazine ( dmh ) , were detectable in preneoplastic or neoplastic rat colonic mucosa . rats were injected weekly with diluent or dmh at 20 mg/kg body wt for 5 , 10 , 15 , or 25 wk , killed , and their colons dissected . dna was extracted from diluent-injected control animals , histologically normal colonic mucosa from carcinogen-treated animals , and from carcinomas . ras mutations were characterized by differential hybridization using allele-specific oligonucleotide probes to polymerase chain reaction -- amplified dna , and confirmed by dna sequencing . while no h-ras mutations were detectable in any group , k-ras ( g to a ) mutations were found in 66 % of dmh-induced colon carcinomas . these mutations were at the second nucleotide of codons 12 or 13 or the first nucleotide of codon 59 of the k-ras gene . the same type of k-ras mutations were observed in premalignant colonic mucosa from 2 out of 11 rats as early as 15 wk after beginning carcinogen injections when no dysplasia , adenomas , or carcinomas were histologically evident , suggesting that ras mutation may be an early event in colon carcinogenesis . 
delivery dependence of early proximal bicarbonate reabsorption in the rat in respiratory acidosis and alkalosis . in the intact rat kidney , bicarbonate reabsorption in the early proximal tubule ( ep ) is strongly dependent on delivery . independent of delivery , metabolic acidosis stimulates ep bicarbonate reabsorption . in this study , we investigated whether systemic ph changes induced by acute or chronic respiratory acid-base disorders also affect ep hco3 - reabsorption , independent of delivery ( flhco3 , filtered load of bicarbonate ) . hypercapnia was induced in rats acutely ( 1-3 h ) and chronically ( 4-5 d ) by increasing inspired pco2 . hypocapnia was induced acutely ( 1-3 h ) by mechanical hyperventilation , and chronically ( 4-5 d ) using hypoxemia to stimulate ventilation . when compared with normocapneic rats with similar flhco3 , no stimulation of ep or overall proximal hco3 reabsorption was found with either acute hypercapnia ( paco2 = 74 mmhg , ph = 7.23 ) or chronic hypercapnia ( paco2 = 84 mmhg , ph = 7.31 ) . acute hypocapnia ( paco2 = 29 mmhg , ph = 7.56 ) did not suppress ep or overall hco3 reabsorption . chronic hypocapnia ( paco2 = 26 mmhg , ph = 7.54 ) reduced proximal hco3 reabsorption , but this effect was reversed when flhco3 was increased to levels comparable to euvolemic normocapneic rats . thus , when delivery is accounted for , we could find no additional stimulation of proximal bicarbonate reabsorption in respiratory acidosis and , except at low delivery rates , no reduction in bicarbonate reabsorption in respiratory alkalosis . 
hypoxia-induced in vivo sickling of transgenic mouse red cells . to develop an animal model for sickle cell anemia , we have created transgenic mice that express a severe naturally occurring human sickling hemoglobin , hb s antilles . due to its low solubility and oxygen affinity , hb s antilles has a greater propensity to cause red cell sickling than hb s. to make transgenic animals that express a high level of hb s antilles , the erythroid-specific dnase i hypersensitive site ii from the human beta-globin cluster was linked independently to the human alpha 2-globin gene and to the beta s antilles gene . embryos were injected with both constructs simultaneously and seven transgenic mice were obtained , three of which contained both the human alpha and the human beta s antilles transgene . after crossing the human transgenes into the mouse beta-thalassemic background a transgenic mouse line was derived in which approximately half the beta-globin chains in the murine red cells were human beta s antilles . deoxygenation of the transgenic red cells in vitro resulted in extensive sickling . an increase of in vivo sickling was achieved by placing these transgenic mice in a low oxygen environment . this murine model for red cell sickling should help to advance our understanding of sickle cell disease and may provide a model to test therapeutic interventions . 
recombinative events of the t cell antigen receptor delta gene in peripheral t cell lymphomas . recombinative events of the t cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) delta-chain gene were studied in 37 cases of peripheral t cell lymphoma ( ptcl ) and related to their clinical presentation and the expression of the alpha beta or gamma delta heterodimers as determined by immunostaining of frozen tissue samples . there were 22 cases of alpha beta , 5 cases of gamma delta , and 10 cases of silent tcr expressing neither the alpha beta nor gamma delta tcr . 5 different probes were used to examine the delta locus . the 22 cases of alpha beta ptcl displayed biallelic and monoallelic deletions ; a monoallelic v delta 1 j delta 1 rearrangement was observed in 1 case and a monoallelic germ line configuration in 7 cases . the 5 cases of gamma delta ptcl displayed biallelic rearrangements : the productive rearrangements could be ascribed to v delta 1j delta 1 joining in 3 cases and vj delta 1 joining in 2 cases according to the combined pattern of dna hybridization with the appropriate probes and of cell reactivity with the tcr delta-1 , delta tcs-1 , and anti-v delta 2 monoclonal antibodies . in the vj delta 1 joining , the rearranged v segments were located between v delta 1 and v delta 2 . interestingly , in the third group of 10 cases of silent ptcl , 5 cases were found to have a tcr gene configuration identical to that in the tcr alpha beta ptcl , as demonstrated by biallelic delta gene deletion . these 5 cases were cd3 positive . the 5 remaining cases showed a monoallelic delta gene rearrangement with a monoallelic germ line configuration in 4 and a monoallelic deletion in 1 . four of these cases were cd3 negative , which was consistent with an immature genotype the tcr commitent of which could not be ascertained . finally , tcr gamma delta ptcl consisted of a distinct clinical morphological and molecular entity whereas tcr alpha beta and silent ptcl had a similar presentation . 
chronic neutropenia . a new canine model induced by human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor . normal dogs were treated with recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( rhg-csf ) at 10 micrograms/kg/day for 30 d , which caused an initial neutrophilia , followed by a prolonged period of chronic neutropenia . a control dog treated with recombinant canine g-csf ( rcg-csf ) showed persistent neutrophilia over 3 mo . serum from dogs during neutropenia contained an antibody to rhg-csf , which neutralized the stimulatory effects of both rhg-csf and rcg-csf on dog marrow neutrophilic progenitor cell growth and on nfs-60 cell proliferation . 4 mo after discontinuation of rhg-csf , the dogs ' neutrophil counts returned to the normal range . rechallenge with the rhg-csf re-induced severe neutropenia in 1 wk . neutropenia was transferred by plasma infusion from a neutropenic dog to a previously normal dog . these data suggest that human rhg-csf immunizes normal dogs and thereby induces neutralization of endogenous canine g-csf and neutropenia . this model system should allow more precise definition of the in vivo role of g-csf . 
hair transplantation ( a new method for recipient site suturing ) : the upper dermal running stitch . recipient hair transplant plugs may heal into place with palpable , and unfortunately , visible borders . this appearance , called " cobblestoning , " is reminiscent of the bumps in a cobblestone street . the author presents a new , rapid method of suturing transplanted plugs that greatly reduces cobblestoning , virtually eliminates traumatic plug loss , and facilitates row-by-row hair transplantation . additionally , postoperative bandaging is not necessary , shower cleansing may commence within hours , and postoperative activity may be unlimited . 
clinical and electrophysiologic determinants , treatment and survival of patients with sustained malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias occurring late after myocardial infarction to assess the clinical and electrophysiologic determinants , treatment and survival of patients with sustained malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias late after myocardial infarction , a total of 108 patients ( mean age 61 + / - 10 years ) were studied . thirty-two patients ( group i ) had sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias 8 to 60 days ( mean 13 + / - 9 ) after acute myocardial infarction . the remaining 76 patients ( group ii ) , who served as a control group , had no sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias less than or equal to 60 days after infarction . the most significant independent determinants of sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias late after infarction were the presence of late potentials ( chi square = 16.07 , p = 0.0001 ) , defined as an abnormal signal-averaged qrs complex in association with an abnormal root-mean-square voltage in the terminal 40 ms of the qrs complex , and an abnormal ejection fraction of less than 40 % ( chi square = 10.09 , p = 0.001 ) . sustained ventricular tachycardia was induced in 27 ( 96 % ) of 28 group i patients . among the 32 patients in group i , antitachycardia therapy included antiarrhythmic drug therapy as the sole preventive measure in 14 ( 44 % ) ; map-guided surgery or coronary artery bypass surgery , or both , in 14 ( 44 % ) and the automatic cardioverter-defibrillator in 4 ( 12 % ) . the arrhythmias were rendered noninducible in 83 % of patients after map-guided surgery and in 41 % after drug therapy . during a follow-up period of 20 + / - 14 months , five group i patients ( 15 % ) had an arrhythmic event and four ( 9.3 % ) had a cardiac-related death . all five patients who had an arrhythmic event were receiving antiarrhythmic drug therapy . 
drug therapy for ventricular tachyarrhythmias : how many electropharmacologic trials are appropriate ? to determine how many electropharmacologic drug trials should be performed to select therapy for patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias , the outcome of 150 consecutive patients with inducible ventricular tachyarrhythmias undergoing serial electropharmacologic testing was examined . the probability of identifying predicted effective therapy ( inductive of fewer than five ventricular responses with three ventricular extrastimuli at three pacing cycle lengths ) and the probability of that therapy preventing sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia recurrences were determined as a function of the number of preceding trials . the probability ( + / - se ) of identifying predicted effective therapy by the first trial ( 0.23 + / - 0.03 ) was significantly higher than that of the second ( 0.09 + / - 0.04 ) , third ( 0.08 + / - 0.04 ) and fourth ( 0.05 + / - 0.04 ) trials ( p = 0.001 ) . no patient had predicted effective therapy identified by subsequent trials . the 2 year actuarial probability of freedom from sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias on predicted effective therapy was higher for the first ( 0.79 + / - 0.08 ) , second ( 0.73 + / - 0.13 ) and third ( 0.86 + / - 0.13 ) trials than for the fourth ( 0.33 + / - 0.27 ) trial ( p = 0.02 ) . thus , the probability of selecting therapy with long-term efficacy was highest for the first trial ( 0.18 ) , intermediate for the second ( 0.07 ) and third ( 0.07 ) trials and lowest for the fourth ( 0.02 ) and subsequent ( 0.00 ) trials . accordingly , the electropharmacologic approach to therapy selection should be abandoned after three unsuccessful trials . 
automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation without thoracotomy using an endocardial and submuscular patch system . the automatic cardioverter-defibrillator lead system is implanted by a thoracotomy procedure that may result in atelectasis , pleural effusion , cardiac tamponade and lengthy convalescence . a new defibrillator lead system that allows selection of different defibrillating current pathways is implanted without a thoracotomy . ten patients requiring a cardioverter-defibrillator for recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia ( five patients ) or aborted sudden cardiac death ( five patients ) were evaluated for implantation of this lead system . a lead configuration with a bidirectional defibrillating current pathway was implanted in nine patients . the defibrillation threshold with this lead configuration was 15 j in five patients , 20 j in three and 30 to 35 j in one patient . in the remaining patient the lead system had a 40 j defibrillation threshold and was not implanted . no perioperative complications occurred . induced ventricular fibrillation was successfully terminated at the predischarge and intermediate follow-up ( 8 to 12 weeks ) electrophysiologic studies . during the follow-up period , there were three deaths ( one sudden , two due to heart failure ) and two lead system failures ( oversensing with inappropriate shocks in one patient and patch lead fracture in another ) . implantation of the cardioverter-defibrillator lead system by a nonthoracotomy approach is feasible , has no significant perioperative complications and is well tolerated by patients . effective defibrillation was demonstrated immediately as well as at intermediate follow-up study . the occurrence of patch lead fracture and oversensing requires improvement in the present ( nonthoracotomy ) lead system technology . 
restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty : pathologic observations in 20 patients histopathologic examination was performed in 20 patients undergoing antemortem coronary angioplasty . thirty-four lesions were dilated and the interval between coronary angioplasty and death ranged from several hours to 4 years . intimal proliferation of smooth muscle cells , as a major cause of restenosis , was observed in 83 % to 100 % of 28 lesions examined 11 days to 2 years after coronary angioplasty . in 20 lesions examined within 6 months , proliferating smooth muscle cells were predominantly of the synthetic type and there was abundant extracellular matrix substance chiefly composed of proteoglycans . in eight lesions examined between 6 months and 2 years , contractile type smooth muscle cells were dominant and extracellular matrix was composed chiefly of collagen . in three lesions examined after 2 years , evidence of antemortem coronary angioplasty was hardly identifiable and these lesions were almost indistinguishable from conventional atherosclerotic plaque . these temporal changes in histologic pattern provide a pathologic background for clinical reports that restenosis is predominantly found within 6 months after coronary angioplasty . morphometric analysis revealed that the extent of intimal proliferation was significantly greater in lesions with evidence of medial or adventitial tears than in lesions with no or only intimal tears . 
differential histopathology of primary atherosclerotic and restenotic lesions in coronary arteries and saphenous vein bypass grafts : analysis of tissue obtained from 73 patients by directional atherectomy . vascular tissue obtained using a directional percutaneous atherectomy device was examined microscopically . tissue was obtained from coronary arteries without prior instrumentation ( primary lesions , n = 31 ) , aortocoronary saphenous vein bypass grafts with primary lesions ( n = 8 ) , coronary arteries with lesions developing after prior balloon angioplasty or mechanical atherectomy ( restenotic lesions , n = 30 ) and vein bypass grafts with restenotic lesions ( n = 4 ) . primary lesions were characterized by dense intimal fibrosis with necrotic debris ( 83 % of intimal tissue ) and foam cells typical of atherosclerosis . these lesions frequently contained cholesterol crystals ( 45 % of coronary arteries , 50 % of vein grafts ) and calcium deposits ( 65 % of coronary arteries , 38 % of vein grafts ) . restenotic lesions were characterized by an increased proportion of loose fibroproliferative tissue ( 45 % of coronary artery intima , 35 % of vein graft intima ) . immunohistochemical stains confirmed this proliferative tissue to be primarily smooth muscle cells . thrombus was rarely observed . comparison of resected tissues indicated that dense fibrosis and necrosis are significantly more common in primary than in restenotic lesions ( 83 % versus 56 % of intimal tissue , p = 0.0005 ) , whereas smooth muscle cell hyperplasia is more common in restenotic than in primary lesions ( 44 % versus 17 % of intimal tissue , p less than 0.0005 ) . partial-thickness resection of medial tissue or full-thickness resection of media with associated adventitial tissue occurred in 27 ( 56 % ) of 39 primary atheromatous lesions and 16 ( 47 % ) of 34 restenotic lesions ; subintimal tissue obtained from primary lesions appeared identical to that obtained from restenotic lesions . these data indicate that the histopathologic characteristics of the neointimal layer of restenotic lesions differ from those of the intimal layer of primary atherosclerotic lesions . 
transplant coronary artery disease : histopathologic correlations with angiographic morphology . accelerated coronary artery disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among cardiac transplant recipients . ten patients who died or underwent retransplantation within 2 months of coronary angiography had direct correlation of angiographic ( normal discrete lesions , diffuse concentric narrowing ) with histologic appearance of coronary arteries . of the 26 angiographically normal segments , 73 % showed mild to moderate fibrous intimal thickening by light microscopy . the remainder had intermediate lesions or atheromatous plaques . discrete stenoses usually corresponded to lipid-rich intermediate or atheromatous disease . in contrast , angiographically diffuse , concentrically narrowed lesions usually were areas of severe fibrous intimal thickening . fresh or organizing thrombus was most often associated with discrete lesions and accounted for all complete occlusions . histologic and angiographic comparisons of the degree of luminal narrowing showed generally good correlation for high grade stenoses . lesions graded as having less than 25 % diameter narrowing were often underestimated angiographically as compared with histologic determinations . transplant coronary artery disease has a heterogeneous histologic and angiographic appearance , with angiographic underestimation of disease in some patients . 
lung function and pulmonary regurgitation limit exercise capacity in postoperative tetralogy of fallot . fifty-five patients with repair of tetralogy of fallot were evaluated with treadmill exercise , pulmonary function testing and rest two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography to determine the relation among cardiopulmonary function , exercise capacity and ventricular arrhythmias . the mean age at repair was 8.1 + / - 2.1 years ; age at the time of study ranged from 15 to 37 years ( mean follow-up time after repair 18 + / - 5 years ) . exercise duration was 92 + / - 17 % of predicted . maximal heart rate was 94 + / - 7 % of predicted . no exercise test was stopped because of an arrhythmia . thirty patients had oxygen consumption and ventilation measured during their final minute of exercise . peak oxygen consumption was 31 + / - 8 ml/kg per min ( 86 + / - 18 % of predicted ) . twenty-five patients ( 45 % ) had low vital capacity at rest ( less than 80 % of predicted ) . pulmonary regurgitation was identified in 42 ( 75 % ) of the patients and judged to be moderate in 10 ( 18 % ) . mild tricuspid valve regurgitation was identified in 64 % . doppler estimated right ventricular outflow gradient was greater than 15 mm hg in 15 % of the patients ( mean gradient 24 mm hg [ range 16 to 56 ] ) . age at repair , duration of follow-up and type of repair did not correlate with echocardiographic variables , ventilatory data , exercise performance or arrhythmias . moderate pulmonary regurgitation was associated with increased right ventricular diastolic area and both were inversely related to exercise duration and vital capacity . decreased breathing reserve during maximal exercise was associated with moderate pulmonary regurgitation and decreased vital capacity . the results indicate that exercise capacity in these patients is in general good ; however , right ventricular volume loading and ventilatory dysfunction may produce exercise limitation . 
atrial activation sequence during atrial flutter in the canine pericarditis model and its effects on the polarity of the flutter wave in the electrocardiogram . stable atrial flutter induced in both conscious and open chest states was studied in 30 mongrel dogs after production of sterile pericarditis . during the conscious state studies , induced atrial flutter ( mean cycle length 128 + / - 15 ms ) was always sustained greater than 15 min and was stable . three types of flutter wave polarity were noted in electrocardiogram ( ecg ) lead ii : positive in 16 dogs , negative in 3 and flat or slightly positive in 11 . sequential site atrial mapping during atrial flutter ( mean cycle length 133 + / - 18 ms ) in the open chest state showed either clockwise ( 18 dogs ) or counterclockwise ( 12 dogs ) circus movement in the right atrium . in 19 of 30 dogs , the circus movement clearly did not require any naturally existing anatomic obstacle ; in 11 , the orifice of the superior vena cava probably was also involved . double potentials were recorded from the center of the reentrant circuit during atrial flutter , and fractionated electrograms were recorded from a pivot point of the reentrant wave front . a positive flutter wave in ecg lead ii ( 12 dogs with counterclockwise circus movement ) was associated with early activation of the bachmann 's bundle region compared with the posteroinferior left atrium and activation of the left atrium mainly in a superoinferior direction . a negative flutter was associated with the early activation of the posteroinferior left atrium compared with bachmann 's bundle and activation of a considerable portion of the left atrium in an inferosuperior direction . a flat or slightly positive flutter wave ( 14 of 18 with clockwise circus movement ) was associated with activation of the left atrium almost simultaneously by two wave fronts coming from both these sites . in conclusion , atrial flutter in this dog model is due to circus movement in the right atrium , the center of which does not necessarily require an anatomic obstacle . although atrial flutter is generated by circus movement in the right atrium , the flutter wave polarity in the ecg is determined primarily by the activation sequence of the left atrium . 
nursing home patients transferred by ambulance to a va emergency department . nursing home residents are frequently transferred to hospital emergency departments . delayed transfer may lead to poor outcomes . however , inappropriate transfer of the frail elderly may cause social and financial problems . we prospectively evaluated 221 consecutive ambulance transfers from community nursing homes to a va emergency department . the objectives of the study were to describe the process and outcomes of transferred patients and to determine if alternative interventions were feasible . the results indicate that the problems of nearly half the study group could have been treated at the nursing home by a visiting physician with minimal medical equipment . those admitted to the hospital ( 52 % ) were seriously ill , had prolonged lengths of stay ( 23.6 days ) , and had a high mortality rate ( 11 % ) . complex issues of physician reimbursement , proprietary nursing home budgeting , and day-to-day expediency appear to be involved in decisions to transport patients by ambulance to va emergency departments . 
endothelial cell adhesiveness for human t lymphocytes is inhibited by transforming growth factor-beta 1 . recombinant human transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) was found to inhibit the adhesive phenotype of human umbilical vein endothelial cells for human pbl , purified t lymphocytes , and pha-activated lymphoblasts . tgf-beta inhibited lymphocyte attachment to resting human umbilical vein endothelial cells and also to endothelial monolayers stimulated with the pro-inflammatory cytokines tnf-alpha and il-1 beta . our investigations also show that the ability of endothelial cells to respond to tgf-beta by altering their adhesiveness is lost with prolonged culture of the cells . however , this loss is selective as tgf-beta inhibits cell proliferation in both early and late passage endothelial cells . these results suggest that in vivo tgf-beta may inhibit the adhesive phenotype of endothelial cells and also may limit the immunologic response occurring at the endothelial cell barrier . 
cytokine release syndrome induced by the 145-2c11 anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody in mice : prevention by high doses of methylprednisolone . the hamster mab 145-2c11 specific for the cd3 complex of murine t lymphocytes shares many properties with okt3 , including the induction of t cell activation . in vivo , the injection of 145-2c11 entails a variety of pathologic changes in relation to the systemic release of cytokines . we tested the effects on this cytokine release syndrome of different doses of methylprednisolone ( m-pds ) given at various intervals of time before the 145-2c11 mab . the administration of high doses of m-pds ( 50 mg/kg ) 2 to 3 h before the mab resulted in an almost complete inhibition of the systemic release of tnf-alpha , il-2 , and il-6 . as far as the pathologic changes are concerned , the hypothermia , the acute renal tubular necrosis , and the fatty infiltration of the liver were completely prevented whereas the hypoglycemia was only partially attenuated . the protective effect of m-pds on the toxicity of 145-2c11 was confirmed by the reduction of the mortality rate among galactosamine-sensitized mice . the inhibition of the release of cytokines by m-pds did not affect the immunosuppression triggered by 145-2c11 as assessed by the ctl activity against alloantigens measured 48 h after the injection of the mab . we conclude that the administration of very high doses of glucocorticoids 2 to 3 h before 145-2c11 prevents the release of cytokines and attenuates the acute toxicity of the mab . similar protocols could allow mitigation of the cytokine-release syndrome induced by the okt3 mab in man . 
genetic control of the immune response in mice to leishmania mexicana surface protease . congenic mouse strains were tested in the lymphocyte proliferation assay for their response to the purified surface protease of leishmania mexicana ( gp63 ) . the data obtained allow us to distinguish three different patterns of response , influenced both by h-2 ( class ii ) and non-h-2 genes . mice of the c57bl/10 ( b10 ) background carrying h-2 haplotypes b , q , and r were found to be high responders ; those carrying h-2 haplotypes d , j , v , and z were low responders ; and those with h-2a , h-2f , h-2k , h-2p , and h-2u haplotypes were intermediate responders . studies with h-2 recombinant strains indicated that the high responsiveness on the b10 background was determined by the ab allele and the low responsiveness influenced by the ad allele . other genes besides h-2 appear to have a role in the immune response as shown by the fact that some strains with balb , dba , or c3h background differed in their pattern of responsiveness from b10 background strains carrying the corresponding h-2 haplotypes . by using recombinant protein , the influence of the leishmanial surface lipophosphoglycan that might co-purify with gp63 , on the mhc restriction of the response to gp63 was excluded . the immune response to gp63 did not correlate with susceptibility of mouse strains to cutaneous infection with l. mexicana promastigotes . 
an autosomal recessive gene that delays expression of lupus in bxsb mice . we report the generation and serologic , cellular , histologic , and genetic characteristics of a bxsb/mpjscr substrain , termed bxsb/mpjscr-ll/ll , that has lost early-life male lupus disease . classic genetic analysis suggested that delayed disease expression results from the action of a single autosomal recessive gene . this putative gene , referred to as ll ( long-lived ) , causes a significant delay in expression of autoimmune serology ( total serum igg and anti-nuclear antibodies levels ) , monocytosis , and of immune complex-mediated histopathologic changes such as glomerulonephritis , arteritis , and myocardial infarction . presumably as a consequence of the delayed immunopathology male bxsb/mpjscr-ll/ll mice live three to four times longer than regular bxsb/mpjscr . this strain might be useful for analysis of single genes responsible for severe autoimmune disease expression . 
the lovastatin-treated rodent : a new model of barrier disruption and epidermal hyperplasia . recent studies have linked epidermal cholesterol synthesis with maintenance of the permeability barrier . to assess directly the importance of cholesterol synthesis , we applied lovastatin , a potent inhibitor of cholesterol synthesis , to hairless mouse skin . transepidermal water loss ( tewl ) began to increase after four to six daily applications . co-application of cholesterol blocked the expected increase in tewl , demonstrating the importance of cholesterol for development of the lesion . the histology of lovastatin-treated skin revealed epidermal hyperplasia , accompanied by accelerated dna synthesis . whereas cholesterol synthesis initially was reduced in lovastatin-treated epidermis , with further treatment cholesterol synthesis normalized , while fatty acid synthesis accelerated greatly . although the total free sterol content of lovastatin-treated epidermis remained normal , the fatty acid content increased coincident with barrier disruption . finally , morphologic abnormalities of both lamellar body structure and their deposited , intercellular contents occurred coincident with the emerging biochemical abnormalities . thus , the abnormal barrier function in this model can be ascribed to an initial inhibition of epidermal sterol synthesis followed by an alteration in cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis , leading to an imbalance in stratum corneum lipid composition and abnormal membrane bilayer structure . 
secretion of a unique collagen by spontaneously transformed murine keratinocytes ( pam cells ) in vitro . a spontaneously transformed murine keratinocyte cell line ( pam cell ) was found to secrete two nondisulfide-linked collagenous polypeptides with apparent molecular weight ( mw ) 190-kd and 120-kd . pulse-chase experiments indicated that the 190-kd polypeptide was secreted into the culture medium in 2 h and processed to the 120-kd collagen component within 4 h. this process was inhibited by edta . the 120-kd polypeptide was sensitive to pepsin , and a 50-kd fragment was produced by a mild pepsin treatment at 4 degrees c. a cyanogen bromide peptide map of the 120-kd polypeptide was distinct from that of types i , ii , iii , iv , and v collagens . these properties indicate similarities to the type viii-related collagen produced by human astrocytoma cells . the secretion of the collagen rapidly reached a maximum level on the first day of culture and subsequently declined with cell proliferation . an accelerated processing to the 120-kd polypeptide was observed under culture conditions of high cell density . similar collagens were also found to be produced by normal human keratinocytes . these results indicate that the 120-kd polypeptide is a potentially functional protein that may participate in the formation of the extracellular matrix of keratinocytes . 
audiological findings following head trauma . traumatic head injury is the principal cause of death and serious physical disability in adolescents and young adult . hearing loss is a common sequela of head trauma . the results of pure tone and auditory brain-stem response ( abr ) assessment of minor head injury revealed that 20 per cent of these cases showed impairment of hearing including both conductive and sensorineural hearing loss mostly in the high frequencies loss . abr findings showed a significant difference of absolute wave v latency and interwave ( iii-v ) latencies at repetition rate 11.1 click/sec . , and a highly significant difference at a repetition rate of 51.1 click/sec . , compared with the control group . in severe head injury , conductive hearing loss was found in only one case , in which a longitudinal fracture of the temporal bone was identified radiologically . no abr could be recorded at a repetition rate of 11.1 click/sec . in either ear of this case ; this patient died a few days later . three cases were found with a mixed sensorineural hearing loss ; one of them showed a longitudinal fracture radiologically . abr findings in two cases showed prolongation of wave v and i-v interwave latencies , and the third case showed absence of abr recording . in comatose patients , an abr grading system is a more sensitive index of brainstem dysfunction than the simple division of normal versus abnormal abr waves and interwave latencies . presence or prolongation of wave v and interwave latency i-v even in one ear is of good prognostic value in the comatosed patient . 
tympano-cartilago-stapediopexy : a method to improve hearing in open technique tympanoplasty . canal wall-down technique tympanoplasty was indicated in about 41 per cent of our cases with chronic suppurative otitis media . in this series done during the last four years , of 576 tympanoplasties , 240 cases needed type iii tympanoplasty . in 145 cases , myringostapediopexy was carried out using temporalis fascia grafting over the head of the stapes . tympano-cartilago-stapediopexy was performed in the other 95 cases by using tragal cartilage and perichondrium over the stapes . a comparison between the results of both methods of grafting is discussed . improvement in hearing was achieved after tympano-cartilago-stapediopexy . this method proved to be suitable for those cases which need open technique tympanoplasty . 
inner ear cholesteatoma and the preservation of cochlear function . labyrinthine destruction by direct cholesteatoma invasion has always been considered a serious threat to the inner ear function . a number of reports in the literature have cited both patients who had preservation of hearing despite widespread erosion of the labyrinth by cholesteatoma and patients who had retained auditory function despite surgical removal of the matrix from the labyrinth . in most cases the vestibular portion of the inner ear was invaded but cases of cochlear involvement have been described as well . twelve cases with pre-operative auditory function preservation despite extensive labyrinthine destruction treated at our institution are reported . seven cases retained cochlear function post-operatively . possible explanations of this occurrence and implications of related with hearing preservation in the presence of widespread inner ear destruction by chronic inflammatory disease are discussed . 
a new syndrome : hearing loss and familial salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone in two brothers . two male siblings presented in infancy with hyponatremia . the levels of plasma renin activity and aldosterone were elevated . sodium supplement was necessary to maintain normal sodium balance . the salivary sodium concentrations were markedly elevated , with sweat sodium levels being in the upper normal range . urinary sodium concentration and renal epithelial exchange between sodium and potassium were normal . this was felt to be due to an autosomal recessive disorder . both siblings were later diagnosed as having a bilateral moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss with intermittent conductive overlay due to middle ear fluid . the sensorineural loss was also felt to be autosomal recessive in origin , but the possibility of a disturbance of sodium balance in the inner ear has been questioned . 
immunopathology of olfactory mucosa following injury to the olfactory bulb . removal of the olfactory bulb was performed on rats in an attempt to elucidate the processes of olfactory dysfunction following head injury . degeneration and regeneration of the olfactory mucosa were examined , histopathologically and immunohistochemically . we used antisera to olfactory marker protein ( omp ) and neuron specific enolase ( nse ) as a marker of the mature olfactory receptor neurons . following rapid degeneration after bulbectomy , the olfactory receptor neurons regenerated . omp and nse containing cells re-appeared 49 days later . however , the cell population of the neuroepithelium did not revert to the numbers observed in the non-operated neuroepithelium , even three months later . the lack of a connection between regenerated axons and the olfactory bulb may result in immature neuronal replacement and reduce the number of olfactory receptor neurons . 
enlarged adenoid and adenoidectomy in adults : endoscopic approach and histopathological study . adenoid enlargement is uncommon in adults and because examination of the nasopharynx by indirect posterior rhinoscopy is inadequate , many cases of enlarged adenoid in adults are misdiagnosed and accordingly maltreated . this study was conducted on 35 cases of enlarged adenoid aged between 20 and 42 years . the nasal endoscope was utilized to identify the adenoid mass . adenoidectomy under transnasal endoscopic control was performed and all the excised material was sent for histopathological examination . adenoidectomy resulted in marked improvement in 94 per cent of cases without major complications . histopathological examination revealed non-specific inflammatory reaction in 15 cases ( 43 per cent ) , pure reactive changes , predominantly follicular hyperplasia , in two cases ( 6 per cent ) and mixed pattern in 18 cases ( 51 per cent ) . endoscopic follow-up for an average 17 months identified recurrence in only two patients . it was concluded that enlarged adenoid tissue in adults has some histopathological differences from that in children and adenoidectomy under transnasal endoscopic control is safe and reliable . 
postauricular cerebellar encephalocoele secondary to chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery . cerebellar herniation into the mastoid through the posterior aspect of the temporal bone as a result of chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery is a rare event . a case is reported in which such a hernia presented subcutaneously behind the pinna ; its repair is discussed . 
temporal bone findings in two cases of head injury . temporal bone findings in two cases of head injury are reported . in one patient , longitudinal fractures occurred in both temporal bones , and extended to the middle ear bilaterally . bleeding was seen in the tympanic cavity , mastoid air cells , internal auditory meatus and facial nerve canal . bleeding was observed in the scala tympani , cochlear aqueduct and endolymphatic sac , but there were no fractures . in the other patient , bleeding was seen in the internal auditory meatus and facial nerve canal . in the right ear , endolymphatic hydrops was observed in all turns of the cochlea . 
isolated muscular sarcoidosis causing fever of unknown origin : the value of gallium-67 imaging . an unusual case of a patient with a long-standing fever of unknown origin ( fuo ) is presented whose gallium-67 ( 67ga ) images revealed increased activity only in the calf muscles bilaterally . other imaging modalities also failed to show chest or other abnormal findings . subsequent biopsy of the right gastrocnemius muscle revealed noncaseating granulomas consistent with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis . when using 67ga to evaluate a patient with a fuo , imaging of the extremities should always be included . also , when abnormal ga-67 uptake is present in the extremities , sarcoidosis should be included in the differential diagnosis . 
gallium uptake in tryptophan-related pulmonary disease . we describe a patient who developed fever , fatigue , muscle weakness , dyspnea , skin rash , and eosinophilia after taking " high doses " of tryptophan for insomnia for two years . a gallium-67 scan revealed diffuse increased uptake in the lung and no abnormal uptake in the muscular distribution . bronchoscopy and biopsy confirmed inflammatory reactions with infiltration by eosinophils , mast cells , and lymphocytes . ct scan showed an interstitial alveolar pattern without fibrosis . emg demonstrated diffuse myopathy . muscle biopsy from the right thigh showed an inflammatory myositis with eosinophilic and lymphocytic infiltrations . 
delayed positive gastrointestinal bleeding studies with technetium-99m-red blood cells : utility of a second injection . two patients studied with technetium-99m-labeled red blood cells ( rbcs ) for gastrointestinal bleeding had positive findings only on 24-hr delayed images , at which time the site of bleeding could not be ascertained . in each instance , when additional delayed images suggested that active bleeding was occurring , a second aliquot of rbcs was labeled and injected . sites of active hemorrhage were identified following further imaging in both patients . when delayed gi bleeding images are positive , further views should be obtained to ascertain if the pattern of intraluminal activity changes . if renewed active hemorrhage is suspected , reinjection with a second dose of labeled rbcs may identify the bleeding site . 
marked elevations of serum alkaline phosphatase in patients with aids . we have observed many patients with aids who have unexplained marked elevations in serum alkaline phosphatase . to determine the frequency of alkaline phosphatase elevations in patients with aids , and to identify diagnoses , medications , and demographic factors associated with such elevations , we conducted a retrospective study of the first 90 consecutive aids cases in hospitals affiliated with the university of colorado health sciences center in denver , colorado . we found elevations of alkaline phosphatase in excess of 1,000 iu/l in 17 % of consecutive patients with aids . this level of elevation was less frequent in patients with kaposi 's sarcoma but there was otherwise no significant association with diagnoses or medications , or transmission categories for aids . the majority of the patients with elevations to this level did not have documented opportunistic infections or biliary tract dilatation previously described in the " cholangitis " syndrome in aids patients . other explanations for these elevations for this common laboratory finding may exist . 
creutzfeldt-jakob disease in pituitary growth hormone recipients in the united states . to assess the magnitude of creutzfeldt-jakob disease ( cjd ) occurrence among recipients of pituitary-derived human growth hormone ( hgh ) , we conducted an epidemiologic follow-up of 6284 recipients of hgh distributed through the national hormone and pituitary program . seven neuropathologically confirmed cases of cjd have occurred in this population to date : six patients with clinical cjd presented with ataxia and imbalance , rather than with altered mentation , which is the most common initial manifestation in sporadic cjd , and one patient died in the preclinical incubation state of the disease . all seven cases occurred among the nearly 700 hgh recipients who started therapy before 1970 . since only 10 % of the cohort has been followed up for the 15-year average incubation interval from midpoint of hgh treatment to onset of symptoms , the great majority of potentially exposed patients have not yet attained the requisite incubation period for expression of cjd . the median duration of hgh therapy of 100 months in the cjd cases was significantly longer than 41 months for all patients starting treatment before 1970 ; thus , the duration of pituitary hgh therapy is a major risk factor for cjd . 
treatable abdominal pathologic conditions and unsuspected malignant neoplasms at autopsy in veterans who received mechanical ventilation . study objective : to determine , in medical patients who received mechanical ventilation , the frequency and types of major unexpected diagnoses at autopsy that , if known before death , would probably have led to improved survival ( class i errors ) or substantively changed management but not survival ( class iib errors ) . design : retrospective cohort study . setting : six medical intensive care units in a department of veterans affairs cooperative study . patients : one hundred seventy-two autopsied patients of the 401 veterans who received mechanical ventilation and died in the hospital . results : the class i error rate was 12 % . abdominal pathologic conditions -- abscesses , bowel perforations , or infarction -- were as frequent as pulmonary emboli as a cause of class i errors . while patients with abdominal pathologic conditions generally complained of abdominal pain , results of examination of the abdomen were considered unremarkable in most patients , and the symptom was not pursued . six percent of patients had extensive malignant neoplasms ( class iib errors ) . conclusions : atypical presentation of potentially treatable abdominal pathologic conditions is a common cause of class i errors in veterans who receive mechanical ventilation . conversely , several patients with unrecognized terminal conditions underwent intensive intervention . if the information gained at autopsy had been known before death , management would have probably changed substantively in 18 % of patients . 
somatostatin analogue , octreotide , reduces increased glomerular filtration rate and kidney size in insulin-dependent diabetes . to determine whether treatment with a somatostatin analogue can reduce kidney hyperfiltration and hypertrophy in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , we studied 11 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and glomerular hyperfiltration . the patients were assigned randomly to receive continuous subcutaneous infusion of either octreotide , 300 micrograms/24 h ( five patients ) or placebo ( six patients ) for 12 weeks . at baseline , mean glomerular filtration rate and mean total kidney volume were not significantly different in the two groups . however , after 12 weeks of treatment , the mean glomerular filtration rate was significantly lower in the octreotide group ( 136 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ; range , 91 to 158 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ) than in the placebo group ( 157 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ; range , 138 to 184 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ) . furthermore , the mean total kidney volume was significantly lower after treatment in the octreotide group ( 379 ml/1 .73 m2 ; range , 307 to 454 ml/1 .73 m2 ) than in the placebo group ( 389 ml/1 .73 m2 ; range , 347 to 465 ml/1 .73 m2 ) . glycemic control did not change significantly in either group . we conclude that subcutaneous infusion of octreotide for 12 weeks reduces increased glomerular filtration rate and kidney size in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus despite the fact that glycemic control remains unchanged . 
expression of hla-dr and secretory component antigens and lymphocyte infiltration in human gastric nonmalignant and malignant tissues : an immunohistochemical study . the relation between hla-dr and secretory component ( sc ) expression and the degree of lymphocyte infiltration was immunohistochemically examined in human gastric mucosa with or without intestinal metaplasia and gastric carcinoma tissues . gastric mucosa without obvious inflammation showed neither expression of hla-dr or sc nor remarkable lymphoid infiltration . in contrast , gastric mucosa with chronic inflammation , tissues with incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia , and carcinoma demonstrated both hla-dr and sc in almost the same area and also prominent lymphoid infiltration in the surrounding stroma . this simultaneous expression of hla-dr and sc was not observed in complete type of intestinal metaplasia . the results indicate a close relationship between expression of hla-dr and sc and the presence of lymphocyte infiltration in gastric mucosa , areas of incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia and in gastric carcinomas . 
coronary artery bypass grafting in elderly patients . comparative results in a consecutive series of 469 patients older than 75 years . a consecutive series of 7104 patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting during an 18-year period ( 1971 to 1988 ) included 469 patients older than 75 years . results were analyzed to determine comparative risk factors for morbidity , early and late survival , and functional outcome . patients younger than 75 years ( group i ) and patients older than 75 years ( group ii ) were identical for ejection fraction and standard hemodynamic indices . mean number of grafts and crossclamp time were greater for group ii patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . mean age of group i was 58.6 years and group ii , 77.6 years ( p less than 0.01 ) . women composed 19.7 % ( 1308/6635 ) of group i and 36.2 % ( 170/469 ) of group ii patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . mammary grafts were placed in 57.7 % ( 3830/6635 ) of group i and 41.6 % ( 195/469 ) of group ii patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . overall perioperative mortality rate was 2.1 % for group i and 6.8 % for group ii ( p less than 0.05 ) . perioperative myocardial infarction rate was similar for the two groups . ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias , renal insufficiency , neurologic complications , prolonged ventilatory support , increased hospital cost , and prolonged hospitalization were significantly more prevalent ( all p less than 0.05 ) in patients older than 75 years . five and 10 years postoperatively , there were no significant differences between groups i and ii with regard to event-free status including angina , myocardial infarction , and reoperation . the 5-year survival rate was 92 % for group i and 80 % for group ii ( p less than 0.05 ) , similar to that of age-matched control subjects . the significantly increased potential for complications and expense of coronary bypass in patients over 75 years of age mandates judicious patient selection and preoperative counseling . despite a significantly increased early mortality and an anticipated decreased long-term survival paralleling normal life table survival curves , good intermediate functional improvement can be realized in patients older than 75 years , comparable with that expected in a much younger age group . 
warm heart surgery . hypothermia is widely acknowledged to be the fundamental component of myocardial protection during cardiac operations . although it prolongs the period of ischemic arrest by reducing oxygen demands , hypothermia is associated with a number of major disadvantages , including its detrimental effects on enzymatic function , energy generation , and cellular integrity . we hypothesized that the ideal protected state of the heart would be electromechanically arrested and perfused with blood , that is , aerobic arrest . under these conditions the fundamental need for hypothermia becomes questionable . we have developed a novel approach to myocardial protection during cardiac operations based on these concepts , in which the chemically arrested heart is perfused continuously with blood and maintained at 37 degrees c. in 121 consecutive coronary bypass procedures we have compared this approach with a historical cohort of 133 consecutive patients treated with hypothermic cardioplegia . perioperative myocardial infarction was significantly less prevalent ( 1.7 % versus 6.8 % ; p less than 0.05 ) in the warm cardioplegic group , as was the use of the intraaortic balloon pump ( 0.9 % versus 9.0 % ; p less than 0.005 ) and the prevalence of low output syndrome ( 13.5 % versus 3.3 % ; p less than 0.005 ) . cardiac output immediately after bypass was significantly higher than before bypass ( 3.1 + / - 0.9 versus 4.9 + / - 1.0 l/min ; p less than 0.001 ) only in the warm cardioplegia group . furthermore , the heartbeat in 99.2 % of patients treated with continuous warm cardioplegia converted to normal sinus rhythm spontaneously after removal of the aortic crossclamp compared with only 10.5 % of the hypothermic group . the time from removal of the aortic crossclamp to discontinuation of cardiopulmonary bypass ( i.e. , reperfusion time ) was significantly shorter in the warm cardioplegia group ( 11 + / - 4.3 versus 27 + / - 5.6 minutes ; p less than 0.001 ) . our results suggest that continuous normothermic blood cardioplegia is safe and effective . conceptually , this represents a new approach to the problem of maintaining excellent myocardial preservation during cardiac operations . 
overdose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution . a preventable cause of postischemic myocardial depression . reperfusion of warm blood cardioplegic solution is useful in minimizing reperfusion damage after ischemia . this study tests the hypothesis that overzealous administration of blood cardioplegic solution at reperfusion counteracts these benefits and can lead to a prevalence of depressed ventricular performance and mortality similar to that seen after normal blood reperfusion . thirty-one dogs underwent 45 minutes of 37 degrees c global ischemia on vented bypass . six received normal blood reperfusion and 25 were reperfused with a warm aspartate/glutamate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution ; of these , eight received high-dose ( 3600 + / - 600 ml ) and 17 received limited-dose ( 1180 + / - 120 ml ) blood cardioplegic reperfusion over 10 to 20 minutes . high-dose blood cardioplegic perfusion ( 5100 + / - 200 ml ) without prior ischemia was tested in an additional five dogs . high-dose blood cardioplegia without preceding ischemia did not alter ventricular function ( peak stroke work index 96 % of control ) . after ischemia , normal blood reperfusion ( no cardioplegia ) resulted in marked left ventricular dysfunction ( peak stroke work index 36 % of control , p less than 0.05 versus control ) and a 33 % mortality rate ( 2/6 died ) . high-dose cardioplegic reperfusion yielded marginal recovery of stroke work index ( 40 % of control , p less than 0.05 versus control ) and a 25 % mortality rate ( 2/8 died ) . in contrast , limited-dose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution allowed 100 % survival ( 17/17 ) and restored stroke work index to 90 % of control ( 1.3 versus 1.45 gm.m / kg ) . we conclude that reperfusion damage can be avoided by initial reoxygenation with limited doses of substrate-enriched blood cardioplegic solution . conversely , high-dose reperfusion of blood cardioplegic solution offsets this benefit , reduces recovery substantially , and may be lethal . 
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia . xx . reperfusate composition : detrimental effects of initial asanguineous cardioplegic washout after acute coronary occlusion . this study tests whether initial asanguineous washout of potentially toxic substances that accumulate during ischemia improves recovery produced by blood cardioplegic reperfusion and evaluates the role of plasma versus whole blood cardioplegia . methods : twenty-four dogs underwent 2 hours of occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery and 20 minutes of blood cardioplegic reperfusion on total vented bypass . in 13 dogs , a 5-minute infusion of either a crystalloid ( n = 7 ) or plasma ( n = 6 ) cardioplegic solution ( containing the same ph , calcium potassium , and osmolarity as blood cardioplegia ) was given immediately before reoxygenation with blood cardioplegia . regional oxygen uptake and coronary vascular resistance were measured during controlled reperfusion , and segmental shortening ( ultrasonic crystals ) , tissue water content , and histochemical damage ( triphenyltetrazolium chloride stain ) were assessed 1 hour after bypass was discontinued . results : asanguineous cardioplegic washout before reoxygenation with blood cardioplegic solution resulted in a progressive ( +42 % ) increase in coronary vascular resistances ( from 123 to 176 units , p less than 0.05 ) and low oxygen utilization during 20 minutes of blood cardioplegic reperfusion ( 29 ml/100 gm , p less than 0.05 ) ; coronary vascular resistance remained low throughout blood cardioplegic reperfusion without washout ( from 109 to 98 units ) , and oxygen utilization was 54 ml/100 gm ( p less than 0.05 ) . neither plasma nor crystalloid washout restored substantial regional systolic shortening ( 3 % systolic shortening versus 73 % systolic shortening with blood cardioplegia ) , and asanguineous washout caused more myocardial edema ( 81.1 % + / - 80.9 % versus 79.5 % water content , p less than 0.05 ) and produced extensive transmural triphenyltetrazolium chloride damage ( 48 % + / - 41 % versus 8 % nonstaining in area at risk , p less than 0.05 ) than initial blood cardioplegic reperfusion . conclusion : asanguineous cardioplegic washout before blood cardioplegic reperfusion limits oxygen utilization during subsequent controlled reperfusion , restricts early recovery of systolic shortening , allows more myocardial edema , and produces extensive histochemical damage , which may be avoided by initial reoxygenation with blood cardioplegia . the red blood cells appear more important than the plasma components of blood cardioplegia . 
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia . xxi . reperfusate composition : superiority of blood cardioplegia over crystalloid cardioplegia in limiting reperfusion damage -- importance of endogenous oxygen free radical scavengers in red blood cells . postischemic damage is caused partially by oxygen free radical-mediated injury . this study will show that ( 1 ) crystalloid cardioplegia with room air oxygen is deleterious because it is devoid of free radical scavengers and ( 2 ) blood cardioplegia limits damage because it contains endogenous free radical scavengers in red blood cells . methods : thirty-two dogs underwent 2 hours of ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 20 minutes of regional blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass . ten dogs received only the blood cardioplegic solution ( containing its endogenous free radical scavengers ) ; five received initial blood cardioplegia ( 5 minutes ) with endogenous free radical scavengers ( catalase and glutathione peroxidase ) blocked by aminotriazole and n-ethylmaleimide , respectively ; 12 received initial crystalloid cardioplegic solution oxygenated by room air ( oxygen tension = 150 mm hg ) ; seven without and five with exogenous free radical scavengers ( superoxide dismutase , catalase , coenzyme q10 ) ; five received initial deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution ( oxygen tension = 6 mm hg ) ; and five received deoxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution . results : blood cardioplegia with endogenous free radical scavengers produced the best recovery of systolic shortening ( 69 % systolic shortening ) and resulted in the least histochemical damage ( 11 % triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining ) . the worst recovery and most damage occurred if blood cardioplegia was preceded by oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia ( 3 % systolic shortening , 48 % triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining ; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia ) or if free radical scavengers were blocked in the initial period of blood cardioplegia ( 3 % systolic shortening , 41 % triphenyltetrazolium chloride nonstaining ; p less than 0.05 versus blood cardioplegia ) . conversely , deoxygenation or supplementation of oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegic solution with exogenous free radical scavengers restored 60 % systolic shortening ( p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia ) and 54 % systolic shortening ( p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia ) and reduced damage to 34 % and 21 % ( both p less than 0.05 versus oxygenated crystalloid cardioplegia ) . conclusion : blood cardioplegic solutions containing their own endogenous free radical scavengers are superior to crystalloid cardioplegic solutions , because they limit oxygen-mediated perfusion damage and restore contractile function . initial crystalloid cardioplegic washout negates the salutary effect of blood cardioplegia . exogenous free radical scavenger supplementation or deoxygenation of the cardioplegic reperfusate is necessary only if crystalloid cardioplegia is used . 
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia . xxii . reperfusate composition : effects of leukocyte depletion of blood and blood cardioplegic reperfusates after acute coronary occlusion . objectives : this study evaluates the role of leukocyte depletion during initial reoxygenation with normal blood and blood cardioplegic reperfusates in limiting reperfusion damage . methods : twenty-eight dogs underwent 2 hours of ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery . the initial reperfusate ( 37 degrees c ) was delivered on total vented bypass to the left anterior descending artery by a calibrated pump via an internal mammary artery graft at 50 mm hg for 20 minutes . eight dogs received normal ( normokalemic , nonenriched ) blood reperfusion ( leukocyte count 8000/mm3 ) and six were reperfused with leukocyte-depleted normal blood ( leukocyte count less than 100/mm3 ) . of 14 dogs reperfused with substrate-enriched ( hyperkalemic ) blood cardioplegic solution , six received a cardioplegic solution with a leukocyte count less than 100/mm3 . results : leukocyte depletion of normal blood reduced reperfusion-induced arrhythmias from 63 % to 17 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . coronary vascular resistance at initial reperfusion was low and remained low during substrate-enriched blood cardioplegic reperfusion with both normal and reduced leukocyte counts . in contrast , coronary vascular resistance rose 63 % with normal blood reperfusion , and this increase was avoided by leukocyte depletion ( 2.6 versus 4.0 mm hg x ml/min , p less than 0.05 ) . coronary vascular resistance after 20 minutes was , however , higher than that with blood cardioplegia with normal or decreased leukocyte counts . negligible functional recovery followed reperfusion with normal blood and leukocyte-depleted blood ( 12 % and 6 % of control systolic shortening ) . in contrast , substantial segmental recovery followed blood cardioplegic reperfusion ( 73 % systolic shortening , p less than 0.05 ) but was not improved by leukopheresis ( 81 % systolic shortening ) . leukocyte depletion of normal blood reperfusate reduced histochemical damage from 53 % to 38 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , but the least histochemical damage followed blood cardioplegic reperfusion with a normal or reduced leukocyte count ( 8 % or 11 % , p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions : these findings suggest an important role for leukocytes in reperfusion damage , but reperfusate leukocyte filtration alone is inferior to blood cardioplegic reperfusion . leukocyte depletion of blood cardioplegic solutions seems unnecessary after only 2 hours of ischemia . 
relation of central obesity and insulin resistance with high diabetes prevalence and cardiovascular risk in south asians . the hypothesis that the high mortality from coronary heart disease ( chd ) in south asians settled overseas compared with other populations is due to metabolic disturbances related to insulin resistance was tested in a population survey of 3193 men and 561 women aged 40-69 years in london , uk . the sample was assembled from industrial workforces and general practitioners ' lists . in comparison with the european group , the south asian group had a higher prevalence of diabetes ( 19 % vs 4 % ) , higher blood pressures , higher fasting and post-glucose serum insulin concentrations , higher plasma triglyceride , and lower hdl cholesterol concentrations . mean waist-hip girth ratios and trunk skinfolds were higher in the south asian than in the european group . within each ethnic group waist-hip ratio was correlated with glucose intolerance , insulin , blood pressure , and triglyceride . these results confirm the existence of an insulin resistance syndrome , prevalent in south asian populations and associated with a pronounced tendency to central obesity in this group . control of obesity and greater physical activity offer the best chances for prevention of diabetes and chd in south asian people . 
pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures . a pulse oximeter was used to monitor arterial oxygen saturations in 11 patients during apparent tonic-clonic seizures . 8 had a clinical diagnosis of genuine fits , 6 of whom showed striking falls in oxygen saturation during the seizures . 3 had a clinical diagnosis of pseudoseizures , none of whom had hypoxia during these episodes . pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures may help to identify patients with low arterial oxygen tension who need immediate intervention . 
long-term suppression of tremor by chronic stimulation of the ventral intermediate thalamic nucleus . the usefulness of high-frequency stimulation of the ventral intermediate nucleus ( vim ) as the first neurosurgical procedure in disabling tremor was assessed in 26 patients with parkinson 's disease and 6 with essential tremor . 7 of these patients had already undergone thalamotomy contralateral to the stimulated side , and 11 others had bilateral vim stimulation at the same time . chronic stimulating electrodes connected to a pulse generator were implanted in the vim . tremor amplitude at rest , during posture holding , and during action and intention manoeuvres was assessed by means of accelerometry . of the 43 thalami stimulated , 27 showed complete relief from tremor and 11 major improvement ( 88 % ) . the improvement was maintained for up to 29 months ( mean follow-up 13 [ sd 9 ] months ) . adverse effects were mild and could be eradicated by reduction or cessation of stimulation . this reversibility and adaptability , allowing control of side-effects , make thalamic stimulation preferable to thalamotomy , especially when treatment of both sides of the brain is needed . 
comparison of pump-driven and spontaneous continuous haemofiltration in postoperative acute renal failure . in a comparison of spontaneous continuous arteriovenous haemofiltration ( cavh ) and pump-driven haemofiltration ( pdhf ) for acute renal failure after surgery , 116 patients admitted to a surgical intensive care unit were assigned cavh ( 48 ) or pdhf ( 68 ) . the method of assignment was that a patient was treated by pdhf if he or she was the only patient requiring treatment at that time ( only one pump was available ) ; any other patient coming to the unit would be treated by cavh . the groups were slightly unbalanced because there were fewer simultaneous cases than expected . the main endpoints were survival rate , control of uraemia , and additional application of haemodialysis . there were no differences between the patient groups in age , duration of treatment , severity of illness , serum creatinine concentration at the start of treatment , or cause of acute renal failure . both treatments adequately controlled uraemia and fluid overload . however , the survival rate was significantly higher with pdhf than with cavh ( 6 [ 12.5 % ] vs 20 [ 29.4 % ] ; p less than 0.05 ) . the daily ultrafiltrate volume was significantly higher with pdhf than with cavh ( 15.7 [ 95 % confidence interval 13.6-17 .8 ] vs 7.0 [ 6.6-7 .4 ] l/day ; p less than 0.05 ) . the volume of ultrafiltrate in patients with ischaemic or sepsis-induced acute renal failure was correlated with the survival rate . this finding suggests that the better survival rate in the pdhf group was due to faster elimination of toxic mediators ( of molecular weight 800-1000 daltons ) through the filter membrane by high-volume haemofiltration . 
hyperinsulinaemia and microvascular angina ( " syndrome x " ) glucose and insulin responses to a glucose load in 11 patients with angina attributed to microvascular coronary dysfunction were compared with those in 11 healthy subjects matched for age , sex , and body mass . stimulated hyperinsulinaemia was demonstrated in the microvascular angina group . the findings suggest a role for increased concentrations of insulin in coronary microvascular dysfunction . 
tick-borne borreliosis in west africa . reported cases of tick-borne relapsing fever due to the spirochaete borrelia crocidurae are rare in west africa , and few epidemiological data are available . to see how common relapsing fever is in senegal thick blood smears from cases of fever of unknown origin and from randomly selected clinic outpatients from a rural dispensary were examined for borrelia . the prevalence of borrelia infections in small mammals was also assessed . borrelia was seen in smears of 12 ( 0.9 % ) of 1340 children . all children who tested positive had complained of acute fever . prevalence was 0 % ( 0/496 ) , 0.5 % ( 2/417 ) , 1.6 % ( 5/308 ) , and 4.2 % ( 5/119 ) at ages 0-1 , 2-4 , 5-9 , and 10-14 , respectively . 26 other instances of borreliosis were seen in patients from different regions of senegal . blood samples from 7 of these patients were inoculated intraperitoneally into white mice ; serious infection developed in all mice . borrelia was seen in thick smears from 65 of 461 wild rodents or insectivores . six rodents species were infected . from a sample of 93 rodents , 33.3 % were infected , as judged by intraperitoneal inoculation of white mice , compared with 14.1 % by direct smear examination . the findings suggest that borreliosis has a wide distribution and a high incidence in senegal . this disease may be a major cause of morbidity in rural areas throughout much of west africa . 
infiltration of epinephrine in tonsillectomy : a randomized , prospective , double-blind study . a variety of hemostatic agents and techniques have been used in an attempt to reduce intraoperative blood loss and postoperative bleeding in tonsillectomy . the efficacy of most of these substances and techniques has been judged primarily on clinical impressions . because of the paucity of prospective studies , a randomized , prospective , double-blind study , using the patients as their own controls , was conducted . ninety-two patients were injected before tonsillectomy in a random , double-blind fashion with normal saline solution in one tonsil and 1:100,000 epinephrine in the other . the blood loss , time of dissection , and postoperative bleeding were recorded separately for each tonsil . cardiac manifestations were also monitored . the tonsils injected with epinephrine had a statistically significant reduction in blood loss and dissection time when compared with those injected with normal saline . subjectively , dissection was easier on the epinephrine-injected side . there was no difference in the incidence of postoperative hemorrhage . cardiac manifestations of epinephrine were minimal and transient . this study demonstrates that epinephrine is useful in reducing hemorrhage during tonsillectomy and can be used safely with the appropriate inhalation anesthetics . 
the hypotympanum and infralabyrinthine cells in chronic otitis media . despite the localization implied by the term " chronic otitis media , " little attention has been paid to the role of the hypotympanum in chronic active otitis media . most authors have emphasized the role of recurrent cholesteatoma or unexenterated cells in the mastoid cell system as causes of recurrent disease . seven cases are reported in which clinical evidence indicated that recurrent chronic otitis media was limited to the hypotympanum and infralabyrinthine cell system . in the five cases in which revision surgery was done , exenteration of this area resulted in an asymptomatic ear . the anatomy , radiographic evaluation , and surgical approach to the hypotympanum are reviewed . careful inspection of the hypotympanum in primary surgery for chronic ear disease and exenteration of the hypotympanic and proximal infralabyrinthine cell tract are advocated when these regions contain cholesteatoma or extensive granulomatous disease . 
characterization of cytokines present in middle ear effusions . retention of inflammatory mediators and cells in the middle ear cleft during chronic otitis media with effusion ( come ) , results in ongoing inflammation with the potential for pathologic changes and hearing loss . cytokines are glycoproteins produced by macrophages and other cells . activities of cytokines include fever production , osteoclast , fibroblast , phagocyte and cytotoxic cell activation , regulation of antibody formation , and inhibition of cartilage , bone and endothelial cell growth . using enzyme-linked immunospecific assays we measured levels of six cytokines in middle ear effusions ( mee ) from children with come . significant levels of four cytokines : interleukin-1-beta ( greater than 50 pg/ml ) , interleukin-2 ( greater than 300 pg/ml ) , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( greater than 40 pg/ml ) , and gamma-interferon ( greater than 6.25 pg/ml ) were found in 51 % , 54 % , 63 % , and 19 % of mee , respectively . in contrast , levels of a fifth cytokine , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor , and a sixth cytokine , interleukin-4 , were undetectable . age was observed to have a significant effect on the levels of specific cytokines . interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) correlated inversely ( p less than .02 ) with age such that the younger the child , the higher the level of il-1 in mee . tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf ) correlated directly ( p less than .005 ) with age such that the older the child , the higher the level of tnf in mee . children undergoing tympanostomy on multiple occasions had average mee tnf levels ( 234.2 + / - 109.1 pg/mg total protein ) that were nearly 14 times higher ( p less than .005 ) than those from children undergoing their first tympanostomy ( 16.9 + / - 3.0 pg/mg total protein ) . thus il-1 correlated with the early stages of come , while tnf correlated with persistence of disease . the presence of these cytokines in mee may be responsible for the mucosal damage , bone erosion , fibrosis , and resulting hearing loss seen in some cases of come . 
aerobic and anaerobic microbiology of acute suppurative parotitis . aspirates of pus from acute suppurative parotitis were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria . bacterial growth was present in 23 specimens . a total of 36 bacterial isolates ( 20 anaerobic and 16 aerobic and facultative ) were recovered , accounting for 1.6 isolates per specimen ( 0.9 anaerobic and 0.7 aerobic and facultative ) . anaerobic bacteria only were present in 10 ( 43 % ) patients , aerobic and facultatives in 10 ( 43 % ) , and mixed aerobic and anaerobic flora in 3 ( 13 % ) . single bacterial isolates were recovered in 9 infections , 6 of which were staphylococcus aureus and 3 were anaerobic bacteria . the predominant bacterial isolates were s. aureus ( 8 isolates ) , bacteroides sp . ( 6 isolates , including 4 bacteroides melaninogenicus group ) , and peptostreptococcus sp . ( 5 ) . beta-lactamase-producing organisms were recovered from 11 ( 73 % ) of the 15 specimens tested . this study highlights the polymicrobial nature and importance of anaerobic bacteria in acute suppurative parotitis . 
the changing direction of nystagmus in acute meniere 's disease : pathophysiological implications . the direction ( s ) and pathophysiologic basis of nystagmus during an acute attack of meniere 's disease have been subject to much debate in the world literature . clinical recordings from two patients whose nystagmus was captured near the very beginning of the acute vertiginous episode are presented . previous clinical observations in meniere 's disease , experimental animal models concerned with initiation of peripheral nystagmus , and the phenomenon of recovery are discussed . 
diaphragmatic fatigue produced by constant or modulated electric currents . in anesthetized rabbits the efficiency of phrenic nerve stimulation with trains of electric current was studied either when ventilation was effected entirely by bilateral nerve stimulation ( electrophrenic ventilation ) or during unilateral nerve stimulation when animals were ventilated with a pump and open chest . trains of rectangular electric pulses ( rpt ) with constant amplitude and frequency or sine waves , both the amplitude and frequency of which were modulated and controlled by a computer ( mswt ) , were used with each animal . mswt closely reproduced the physiological shape of transdiaphragmatic pressure waves . diaphragm fatigue , as determined from the decrease in the maximal relaxation rate of twitches , occurred after 20 minutes of bilateral or unilateral nerve stimulation with rpt , but only after 60 min ( unilateral stimulation ) or 98 min ( bilateral stimulation ) with mswt . these data show the importance of the motor signal pattern in long-lasting nerve stimulation . 
rice-based oral electrolyte solutions for the management of infantile diarrhea background . in infants the treatment of acute diarrhea with glucose-based solutions results in rehydration but does not reduce the severity of diarrhea . oral rehydration with solutions based on rice powder may reduce stool output as well as restore fluid volume . methods . we designed a prospective , randomized , double-blind study to evaluate the efficacy of two rice-based rehydration solutions and a conventional glucose-based solution . solution a contained only rice-syrup solids , solution b contained rice-syrup solids and casein hydrolysate , and solution c , the glucose-based solution , served as control . the study subjects were 86 mildly to moderately dehydrated infant boys , 3 to 18 months old , who were admitted to a children 's hospital with acute diarrhea . we measured fluid intake , fecal and urine output , and absorption and retention of fluid , sodium , and potassium at intervals for 48 hours in all 86 infants . results . the mean ( + / - se ) fecal output was significantly lower in the infants given solution a ( group a infants ) than in the infants given solution c ( group c ) ( 29 + / - 4 vs. 46 + / - 7 ml per kilogram of body weight , p less than 0.05 ) during the first six hours of therapy . the infants in group a also had greater fluid absorption ( 221 + / - 16 vs. 167 + / - 9 ml per kilogram , p less than 0.05 ) over the entire 48 hours of therapy and greater potassium absorption ( 1.6 + / - 0.2 vs. 0.6 + / - 0.1 mmol per kilogram , p less than 0.05 ) during the first six hours than the infants in group c. solution b offered no advantages over solution a. conclusions . solutions containing rice-syrup solids were effective in the rehydration of infants with acute diarrhea . they decreased stool output and promoted greater absorption and retention of fluid and electrolytes than did a glucose-based solution . 
twelve-year comparison of a bjork-shiley mechanical heart valve with porcine bioprostheses background . patients undergoing heart-valve replacement may receive a mechanical prosthesis , necessitating lifelong anticoagulant treatment , or a porcine bioprosthesis , which involves no absolute need for anticoagulants . methods . we carried out a randomized , prospective trial to compare the durability of the bjork-shiley mechanical prosthesis ( spherical tilting-disk model ) and the incidence of valve-related complications with those variables in the hancock and the carpentier-edwards porcine prostheses . the mitral valve was replaced in 261 patients , the aortic valve in 211 , and both in 61 ; the survivors have been followed up for a mean of 12 years . results . we found a trend toward improved actuarial survival after 12 years with the bjork-shiley prosthesis , but this trend was not statistically significant ( group with bjork-shiley valve vs. group with porcine valve [ mean + / - se ] , 51.5 + / - 3.2 vs. 44.4 + / - 3.2 percent ; p = 0.08 ) . there was no significant difference in the actuarial incidence of reoperation after 5 years , but after 12 years significantly more patients with a porcine prosthesis had undergone reoperation ( 8.5 + / - 2.0 vs. 37.1 + / - 4.1 percent , p less than 0.001 ) . an analysis combining death and reoperation as end points for an actuarial assessment of survival with the original prosthesis intact confirmed that the patients with bjork-shiley shiley prostheses had improved survival ( 48.6 + / - 3.2 vs. 30.0 + / - 3.0 percent after 12 years , p less than 0.001 ) . bleeding requiring hospitalization or blood transfusion was significantly more frequent in the patients with bjork-shiley prostheses ( 18.6 + / - 3.2 vs. 7.1 + / - 2.3 percent after 12 years , p less than 0.01 ) . there was no significant difference after 12 years in the actuarial occurrence of embolism ( bjork-shiley vs. porcine , 21.1 + / - 3.1 vs. 26.4 + / - 3.5 percent ) or endocarditis ( 3.7 + / - 1.4 vs 4.6 + / - 1.6 percent ) . conclusions . survival with an intact valve is better among patients with the bjork-shiley spherical tilting-disk prosthesis than among patients with porcine bioprostheses , but use of the bjork-shiley valve carries an attendant increased risk of bleeding associated with the need for anticoagulant treatment . 
a placebo-controlled trial of maintenance therapy with fluconazole after treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . california collaborative treatment group . background and methods . in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , the rate of relapse after primary treatment for cryptococcal meningitis remains high . we conducted a controlled , double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance therapy with fluconazole . at entry into the study , all participants had sterile cultures of cerebrospinal fluid , blood , and urine after following a standardized course of therapy for culture-proved cryptococcal meningitis . the patients were randomly assigned to take either fluconazole or placebo as maintenance therapy . the dose of fluconazole was 100 mg daily in the first phase of study and 200 mg daily in the second phase . results . of 84 patients initially enrolled , 16 ( 19 percent ) were found to have silent , persistent infection on the basis of cultures that became positive after entry into the study ; 7 other patients were lost to follow-up shortly after entry . of the remaining 61 patients , 10 of 27 assigned to placebo ( 37 percent ) and 1 of 34 assigned to fluconazole ( 3 percent ) had a recurrence of cryptococcal infection at any site ( difference in risk , 34 percent ; 95 percent confidence interval , 15 to 53 ) . of the 11 recurrent infections , 7 were detected in urine obtained after prostatic massage . there were four recurrent meningeal infections in the patients taking placebo , but none in those taking fluconazole ( mean duration of follow-up , 164 days ) ( p = 0.03 ) . in multivariate analyses , the best predictors of recurrence-free survival were fluconazole treatment ( p = 0.02 ; relative hazard , 13.2 ) , a lower serum cryptococcal-antigen titer ( p = 0.05 ; relative hazard , 1.2 ) , and more prolonged primary therapy with flucytosine ( p = 0.09 ; relative hazard , 1.1 ) . survival and toxicity were similar in the two maintenance-treatment groups . conclusions . in patients with aids , silent persistent infection is common after clinically successful treatment for cryptococcal meningitis . maintenance therapy with fluconazole is highly effective in preventing recurrent cryptococcal infection . 
raf-1 protein kinase is required for growth of induced nih/3t3 cells . many growth factors regulate the cytoplasmic raf-1 protein kinase , consistent with its having a central role in transduction of growth signals . the kinase is ubiquitously expressed and can promote proliferation , presumably in a manner dependent on growth-factor receptors and membrane-associated oncogenes . we have now examined the dependence of serum - and tpa ( 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ) - regulated nih/3t3 cell growth on raf-1 kinase to determine whether raf-1 is essential for receptor signalling . we inhibited raf-1 function by expressing c-raf-1 antisense rna or kinase-defective c-raf-1 mutants . antisense rna for c-raf-1 interferes with proliferation of normal nih/3t3 cells and reverts raf-transformed cells . in revertant cells , dna replication induced by serum or tpa was eliminated or reduced proportionately to the reduction in raf protein levels . expression of a kinase-defective raf-1 mutant ( craf301 ) or a regulatory domain fragment ( hcr ) inhibited serum-induced nih/3t3-cell proliferation and raf transformation even more efficiently . inhibition by antisense rna or craf301 blocked proliferation and transformation by ki - and ha-ras oncogenes . we conclude that raf functions as an essential signal transducer downstream of serum growth factor receptors , protein kinase c and ras . 
young-onset parkinson 's disease : a clinical review . young-onset parkinson 's disease ( yopd ) is arbitrarily defined as that which produces initial symptoms between the ages of 21 and 39 , inclusive . the special problems and concerns of the patient with yopd present as much of a challenge and opportunity for the clinician as the disease itself does for the researcher . in contrast to juvenile parkinsonism , which is a heterogeneous group of clinicopathologic entities presenting ( also arbitrarily ) before age 21 , yopd appears to be the same nosologic entity as older-onset pd . it comprises approximately 5 % of referral populations in western countries and about 10 % in japan . its annual incidence relative to the population at risk is about 1/10 that of pd at age sixty . yopd tends to have more gradual progression of parkinsonian signs and symptoms , earlier appearance of levodopa-related dyskinesias and levodopa-dose-related motor fluctuations , and frequent presence of dystonia as an early or presenting sign . studies conflict with regard to the suspected greater familial frequency and lesser frequency of dementia than in older-onset pd . 
delayed-onset dystonia due to perinatal or early childhood asphyxia . we report 10 patients with delayed-onset dystonia associated with perinatal asphyxia and 2 associated with asphyxia in childhood . in the perinatal group , the mean age of onset was 12.9 years . among these patients , dystonia continued to progress for a mean of 7 years , and as long as 28 years . these patients had moderate motor disability ; none was wheelchair-bound , and thus their prognosis was better than that of the childhood-onset idiopathic torsion dystonias . the most frequently beneficial drugs were anticholinergics . since some of these patients closely resembled cases of idiopathic torsion dystonia , the prior occurrence of asphyxia should be used as a criterion of exclusion for that diagnosis . 
hashimoto 's encephalopathy : a steroid-responsive disorder associated with high anti-thyroid antibody titers -- report of 5 cases . we describe 5 patients with a relapsing encephalopathy in association with hashimoto 's disease and high titers of anti-thyroid antibodies . the presentation is usually with a subacute onset of confusion , alteration in conscious level , and focal or generalized seizures . the relapsing course , association with myoclonus or tremulousness , and episodes of stroke-like deterioration are characteristic features . the long-term prognosis is favorable with steroid therapy , though additional immunosuppressive therapy may be required . neurologic investigation typically shows a diffusely abnormal eeg , high csf protein level without pleocytosis , and normal brain ct and cerebral angiogram . isotope brain scan may show patchy abnormal uptake . hashimoto 's encephalopathy should be recognized as a definite neurologic entity and added to the list of cns complications of thyroid disease . 
essential tremor : clinical correlates in 350 patients . to study the demographic and clinical correlates of essential tremor ( et ) , we analyzed a comprehensive database of 350 patients evaluated at the movement disorders clinic at baylor college of medicine from 1982 to 1989 . the age at onset of tremor showed bimodal distribution for both male and female patients , with peaks in 2nd and 6th decades . et appeared most frequently in hands , followed by head , voice , tongue , leg , and trunk . half of the patients ( 47 % ) had associated dystonia , including cervical dystonia , writer 's cramp , spasmodic dysphonia , and cranial dystonia , and 20 % of the patients had associated parkinsonism . at least one 1st-degree relative of 62.5 % of et patients reported tremor . alcohol relieved tremor in 2/3 of et patients . sixty-eight percent of patients who had adequate follow-up improved with propranolol , and 72 % with primidone . there was no significant difference in various clinical variables between the 219 patients with familial et and 131 with sporadic et . patients with early-onset et were more likely to have hand involvement and associated dystonia than patients with late-onset et . dystonia was more frequently associated with mild et than with severe et . patients with low-frequency tremor were older and had more head but less hand involvement than patients with high-frequency tremor . the lack of relevant differences between et subgroups suggests that , despite variable expression , et represents a single disease entity . 
lateral medullary infarction : prognosis in an unselected series . we describe the acute and long-term prognosis in 43 patients with lateral medullary infarction ( lmi ) collected from a population-based stroke registry from 1982 to july 1988 . mean age was 63.9 years and median time of follow-up was 33 months . in the acute phase , 5 patients ( 11.6 % ) died from respiratory and cardiovascular complications and 2 new strokes occurred , both in the posterior circulation . during follow-up , recurrent vertebrobasilar territory strokes occurred in only 2 patients ( a rate of 1.9 % per year ) . the mechanisms of stroke were vertebral artery ( va ) branch occlusion , causing a medial medullary syndrome , and basilar artery thrombosis propagating from a contralateral , distal va stenosis . in the acute phase of lmi , respiratory and cardiovascular events , presumably caused by autonomic dysfunction related to the lateral medullary lesion , are the major hazards . recurrent posterior circulation strokes were uncommon during follow-up . 
myotonic heart disease : a clinical follow-up . we followed 37 patients with myotonic dystrophy for a mean of 6 years . two developed atrial flutter or fibrillation , 6 developed a new bundle branch block , 1 developed complete heart block requiring a pacemaker , and another with progressive 1st-degree heart block and a widening qrs interval had a sudden death . most patients had predictable , gradually progressive disease of their cardiac conduction system . we recommend that patients with progressive atrioventricular block or widening qrs interval due to myotonic heart disease have yearly ecgs and be questioned about syncope or presyncope to determine the need for a cardiac pacemaker . 
epidermal nevus syndrome : a neurologic variant with hemimegalencephaly , gyral malformation , mental retardation , seizures , and facial hemihypertrophy . the epidermal nevus syndrome ( ens ) is a sporadic neurocutaneous disorder that consists of epidermal nevi and congenital anomalies involving the brain and other systems . from among over 60 patients with ens presenting with neurologic manifestations , we identified 17 who had hemimegalencephaly based on pathologic or radiologic studies . associated brain and neurologic abnormalities included gyral malformations in 12 of 12 , mental retardation in 13 of 14 , seizures in 16 of 17 ( including 9 with infantile spasms ) , and contralateral hemiparesis in 7 of 12 . all had ipsilateral epidermal nevi of the head , and several had ipsilateral facial hemihypertrophy . we concluded that these abnormalities comprise a recognizable neurologic variant of ens that we believe represents the full expression of primary brain involvement . several patients also had evidence of acquired brain lesions such as infarcts , atrophy , porencephaly , and calcifications , which are best explained by prior ischemia or hemorrhage . given repeated observations of blood vessel anomalies in ens patients , we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia predisposes to these acquired lesions . the same cause may be invoked to explain the wide variety of neurologic symptoms reported in ens patients without hemimegalencephaly . while the cause of ens remains unknown , several observations suggest a somatic mutation . 
vascular abnormalities in epidermal nevus syndrome . we report a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome and right hemispheric infarct and review 3 others with neurologic manifestations best explained by ischemia or hemorrhage . each had a significant vascular abnormality such as occlusion or blood vessel dysplasia . none had hemimegalencephaly . we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia is the cause of the neurologic lesions in these patients . 
reciprocal inhibition between forearm muscles in spastic hemiplegia . we studied reciprocal inhibition of h-reflexes in the forearm flexor and extensor muscles in 14 patients with spastic hemiplegia secondary to a focal cerebral lesion and 14 normal volunteers . in the spastic limb , the hmax/mmax ratio was increased in both flexor and particularly extensor wrist muscles . the 3 normal inhibitory phases of reciprocal inhibition between extensor and flexor forearm muscles were markedly reduced on the spastic side of patients . the early disynaptic phase showed the greatest alteration . reduced or absent inhibition between forearm muscles associated with increased spinal motoneuron excitability may be typical to spastic hemiplegia . 
the effect of flunarizine on essential tremor . we investigated the effect of flunarizine treatment ( 10 mg/d ) in 17 subjects with essential tremor in a double-blind placebo-controlled design . tremor was assessed by clinical scoring , tremographic recordings , and subjective rating by subjects . of the 15 subjects who completed the study , 13 showed improvement . we conclude that flunarizine is effective treatment for essential tremor . 
a case of myelinoclastic diffuse sclerosis in an adult . we report a case of rapidly progressive cerebral demyelinating disease in a previously healthy 40-year-old woman . this case satisfies the diagnostic criteria for myelinoclastic diffuse sclerosis ( mds ) , but is unusual in the age of onset . this is the 1st case of mds in an adult with full documentation of clinical , biochemical , radiographic , and pathologic features . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan : muscle biopsy findings in 4 patients . muscle biopsies of 4 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan showed lymphocytic infiltrates with occasional eosinophils largely restricted to interstitial fibrous tissue and perivascular areas . there was inflammation and fibrosis of muscle spindle capsules in 3 patients . in the 2 sickest patients , there was profound muscle atrophy , affecting both muscle fiber types . 
the " numb cheek-limp lower lid " syndrome . a patient developed isolated numbness , 1st confined to the lateral nose and upper lip , but later involving the cheek , lower lip , upper gingiva , and the palate . this numbness was later associated with paresis of the muscles of the upper lip and angle of the mouth and with ipsilateral lower lid droop ( the " numb cheek-limp lower lid " syndrome ) . squamous cell carcinoma was discovered infiltrating the infraorbital nerve and distal branches of the facial nerve . cheek numbness associated with lower eyelid or upper lip weakness may herald a neoplasm affecting the infraorbital nerve and distal facial nerve branches . 
repetitive conservative surgery for recurrence of endometriosis . we evaluated the recovery of fertility and the relief of pain symptoms in a long-term follow-up of 42 women undergoing repetitive conservative surgery for recurrent endometriosis . the mean age of the patients was 31.1 + / - 4.3 years . at the time of their second operation the disease was stage iv in 14 women , stage iii in 25 , and stage i in three . after reoperation , the patients were followed for a mean period of 41.8 + / - 30.3 months . pain symptoms returned in eight women , dysmenorrhea and deep dyspareunia in eight , and pelvic pain in seven . eight of the 28 women ( 28.6 % ) who attempted to conceive achieved a total of 13 pregnancies . the corrected pregnancy rate was 35 % , and the cumulative rate at 27 months was 30.7 % . a third operation was necessary in six women after a mean period of 35 months . conservative surgery is an effective therapeutic option for infertile patients with recurrent endometriosis . 
enlarged cisterna magna and the dandy-walker malformation : factors associated with chromosome abnormalities . thirty-three fetuses with an enlarged cisterna magna ( 10 mm or more ) were evaluated to determine factors that might be associated with an underlying chromosome abnormality . eighteen fetuses ( 55 % ) proved to have a chromosome abnormality , including trisomy 18 or trisomy 18 variant ( 12 ) , trisomy 13 ( three ) , turner syndrome ( one ) , or other rearrangements ( two ) . among various risk factors analyzed , the absence of ventricular dilatation correlated most strongly with a chromosome abnormality . chromosome abnormalities were found in 17 of 22 fetuses ( 77 % ) lacking ventricular dilatation , compared with only one of 11 fetuses ( 9 % ) with ventricular dilatation ( p less than .001 ) . other factors statistically associated ( p less than .01 ) with an underlying chromosome abnormality included mild enlargement of the cisterna magna ( 10-14 mm ) , concurrent anomalies detected sonographically , and fetal growth retardation . however , stepwise logistic regression showed that only the absence of ventricular dilatation and the presence of concurrent anomalies were significant when multiple factors were evaluated . these observations support the utility of evaluating the cisterna magna as part of a routine anatomical survey . 
clue cells in predicting infections after abdominal hysterectomy . seventy women scheduled for abdominal hysterectomy were examined for the presence of clue cells in the vaginal discharge in an attempt to identify a possible risk group for development of postoperative infection . seven of 20 women ( 35 % ) with clue cells developed vaginal cuff infections or wound infections , compared with four of 50 women ( 8 % ) without clue cells ( p less than .01 ) . women with bacterial vaginosis , diagnosed by air-dried vaginal smears , are therefore at risk for postoperative infection . 
full-thickness skin graft vaginoplasty for treatment of the stenotic or foreshortened vagina . vaginal stenosis or foreshortening following surgery or radiation therapy can lead to dyspareunia . this report concerns the successful use of full-thickness skin grafts taken from the flank overlying the iliac crest to treat vaginal stenosis or foreshortening . the operation consists of incising the involved area and creating a space which will become the recipient site . an elliptical piece of full-thickness skin harvested from the area overlying the iliac crest is cleared of underlying fat , trimmed to fit the recipient site , and sutured in place . vaginal packing is used to keep the graft against the recipient bed . ten patients have been treated successfully with this technique , without significant complications or sequelae . follow-up from 6 weeks to 42 months showed excellent postsurgical vaginal capacity in all patients . similarly , excellent functional results were achieved in eight patients , with distinct improvement in the remaining two . this procedure is a useful addition to the gynecologic surgeon 's armamentarium . 
mobile knee reconstructions after resection of malignant tumors of the distal femur . limb-salvage surgery involving mobile knee reconstructions for malignant tumors about the distal femur is a desirable and achievable goal . with limb salvage , the survival rate does not decrease significantly , and the resulting function is superior to when an amputation plus a prosthesis are used . immediate and delayed morbidity is greater after limb-salvage surgery than after amputation . however , with thorough preoperative planning , use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy as indicated , and an experienced team of surgeons , limb-salvage surgery can provide a mobile knee with excellent function in the vast majority of cases for patients with malignant tumors of the distal femur . 
pelvic resections : the rizzoli institute experience . materials , methods , and techniques of pelvic resections are discussed . results , including the complications of nerve damage , infection , and vascular , visceral , and reconstructive complications are tabulated . 
reconstructions after resections of tumors involving the proximal femur . advances in prosthesis design , the use of allografts , and a systematic approach to the staging and surgical treatment of musculoskeletal tumors have made limb salvage possible in the proximal femoral region . with the use of effective adjuvant therapy , limb salvage is now an option for the majority of patients presenting with locally invasive neoplasms in this area . the increase in functional outcome is sufficient to warrant serious consideration of limb salvage over the corresponding amputation . preoperative planning is discussed along with surgical techniques . 
gtpase-activating protein interactions with the viral and cellular src kinases . gtpase-activating protein ( gap ) , which regulates the activities of ras proteins , is implicated in mitogenic signal transduction by growth-factor receptors and oncoproteins with tyrosine kinase activity . oncogenic viral src ( p60v-src ) encoded in rous sarcoma virus possesses elevated tyrosine kinase activity compared with its nononcogenic normal homolog , cellular src ( p60c-src ) . to examine molecular interactions between gap and the two src kinases , immunoprecipitates of src or gap prepared from cell lystates were resolved by gel electrophoresis and analyzed by an immunoblot procedure with antibodies to gap or src used as probes . results suggest that p60c-src is associated with a complex containing gap in immunoprecipitates from lysates of normal rat and chicken cells . however , gap is not phosphorylated in p60c-src immunoprecipitates subjected to in vitro kinase reactions . by contrast , gap undergoes tyrosyl phosphorylation in vitro when immunoprecipitates of p60v-src prepared from transformed cell lysates are incubated with atp . our findings suggest that p60v-src and p60c-src associate with complexes containing gap and provide a biochemical link between both kinases and gap/ras signal transduction pathways . these results are consistent with the hypothesis that gap has a role in mediating normal functions of p60c-src as well as oncogenic activities of p60v-src . 
molecular basis of the activation of the tumorigenic potential of gag-insulin receptor chimeras . a previous study showed that the human insulin receptor ( ir ) could be activated by insertion of a 3 ' portion of the cdna encoding the beta subunit into a retrovirus genome to form a gag-ir fusion protein . while capable of transforming cells in culture , this ir cdna-containing virus , called uir , was not able to induce tumors in animals . subsequently , we isolated a spontaneous sarcomagenic variant called uir19t from the parental uir . uir19t was molecularly cloned , sequenced , and found to harbor two mutations . a 44-amino acid deletion immediately upstream from the transmembrane domain of the gag-ir fusion protein removes all the extracellular sequence of the ir remaining in the original uir construct . in addition , a single nucleotide deletion at the 3 ' end results in truncation and replacement of the carboxyl-terminal 12 amino acids by 4 new amino acids . the specific kinase activity of uir19t is 4 - to 5-fold higher than that of the parental uir . however , no new cellular substrates were detected in uir19t-transformed cells as compared to uir cells . viruses containing either the 5 ' or the 3 ' deletion mutation were constructed and assessed for their biological function . our data indicate that the 5 ' deletion alone is sufficient to confer tumorigenic ability . we conclude that sequence immediately upstream from the transmembrane domain imposes a negative effect on the transforming and tumorigenic potential of the gag-ir fusion protein . 
molecular localization of the t ( 11 ; 22 ) ( q24 ; q12 ) translocation of ewing sarcoma by chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization . chromosome translocations are associated with a variety of human leukemias , lymphomas , and solid tumors . to localize molecular markers flanking the t ( 11 ; 22 ) ( q24 ; q12 ) breakpoint that occurs in virtually all cases of ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma , high-resolution chromosomal in situ suppression hybridization was carried out using a panel of cosmid clones localized and ordered on chromosome 11q . the location of the ewing sarcoma translocation breakpoint was determined relative to the nearest two cosmid markers on 11q , clones 23.2 and 5.8 , through the analysis of metaphase chromosome hybridization . by in situ hybridization to interphase nuclei , the approximate physical separation of these two markers was determined . in both ewing sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma , cosmid clone 5.8 is translocated from chromosome 11q24 to the derivative chromosome 22 and a portion of chromosome 22q12 carrying the leukemia inhibitory factor gene is translocated to the derivative chromosome 11 . the physical distance between the flanking cosmid markers on chromosome 11 was determined to be in the range of 1000 kilobases , and genomic analysis using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis showed no abnormalities over a region of 650 kilobases in the vicinity of the leukemia inhibitory factor gene on chromosome 22 . this approach localizes the ewing sarcoma breakpoint to a small region on chromosome 11q24 and provides a rapid and precise technique for the molecular characterization of chromosomal aberrations . 
mutational activation of the c-ha-ras gene in liver tumors of different rodent strains : correlation with susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis . the frequency and pattern of mutations at codon 61 of the c-ha-ras gene have been analyzed in 195 liver tumors and 132 precancerous liver lesions from various rodent strains with differing susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis . by using the polymerase chain reaction and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization , c ---- a transversions at the first base and a ---- t transversions or a ---- g transitions at the second base of c-ha-ras codon 61 were detected in 20-60 % of spontaneous or carcinogen-induced liver tumors of the c3h/he , cba , cf1 , and b6c3f1 mouse strains , which are highly susceptible to hepatocarcinogenesis . no such mutations , however , could be found in any of the 31 liver tumors of the insensitive c57bl/6j and balb/c mouse strains or in any of the 35 liver tumors of the comparatively resistant wistar rat . further analyses of c-ha-ras codon 12 mutations in liver tumors from the three insensitive rodent strains also failed to give any positive results . in early precancerous liver lesions , c-ha-ras codon 61 mutations were found in 13-14 % of lesions of the sensitive c3h/he and b6c3f1 mouse strains but not in any of the 34 lesions of the insensitive c57bl/6j mouse . taken together , our results indicate a close correlation between the mutational activation of the c-ha-ras gene in liver tumors of the different rodent strains and their susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis , whereby the mutations appear to provide a selective growth advantage , leading to a clonal expansion of the mutated liver cell population , only in livers of sensitive but not of insensitive strains . 
the transcriptional transactivator of human foamy virus maps to the bel 1 genomic region . the human foamy virus ( hfv ) genome possesses three open reading frames ( bel 1 , 2 , and 3 ) located between env and the 3 ' long terminal repeat . by analogy to other human retroviruses this region was selected as the most likely candidate to encode the viral transactivator . results presented here confirmed this and showed further that a deletion introduced only into the bel 1 open reading frame of a plasmid derived from an infectious molecular clone of hfv abolished transactivation . in contrast , deletions in bel 2 and bel 3 had only minor effects on the ability to transactivate . the role of the bel 1 genomic region as a transactivator was further investigated by eukaryotic expression of a genome fragment of hfv spanning the bel 1 open reading frame . a construct expressing bel 1 under control of a heterologous promoter was found to transactivate the hfv long terminal repeat in a dose-dependent fashion . furthermore , it is shown that the u3 region of the hfv long terminal repeat is sufficient to respond to the hfv transactivator . 
transgenic mice susceptible to poliovirus . poliovirus-sensitive transgenic mice were produced by introducing the human gene encoding cellular receptors for poliovirus into the mouse genome . expression of the receptor mrnas in tissues of the transgenic mice was analyzed by using rna blot hybridization and the polymerase chain reaction . the human gene is expressed in many tissues of the transgenic mice just as in tissues of humans . the transgenic mice are susceptible to all three poliovirus serotypes , and the mice inoculated with poliovirus show clinical symptoms similar to those observed in humans and monkeys . rabbit antipoliovirus serum detects the antigens mainly in motor neurons in the anterior horn of the spinal cord and in nerve cells in the medulla oblongata and pons of the paralyzed transgenic mice . therefore , cell types sensitive to poliovirus in the central nervous system of the transgenic mice appear to be identical to those of humans and monkeys . furthermore , many more doses of oral poliovirus vaccine strains than of the virulent strains are required to cause paralysis in the transgenic mice . this may reflect the observation that the virulent strain multiplies more efficiently in the central nervous system than the attenuated strain . thus , the transgenic mice may become an excellent new animal model to study molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis of poliovirus and to assess oral poliovirus vaccines . 
ability of the c-mos product to associate with and phosphorylate tubulin . the mos proto-oncogene product , pp39mos , is a protein kinase and has been equated with cytostatic factor ( csf ) , an activity in unfertilized eggs that is thought to be responsible for the arrest of meiosis at metaphase ii . the biochemical properties and potential substrates of pp39mos were examined in unfertilized eggs and in transformed cells in order to study how the protein functions both as csf and in transformation . the pp39mos protein associated with polymers under conditions that favor tubulin oligomerization and was present in an approximately 500-kilodalton " core " complex under conditions that favor depolymerization . beta-tubulin was preferentially coprecipitated in pp39mos immunoprecipitates and was the major phosphorylated product in a pp39mos-dependent immune complex kinase assay . immunofluorescence analysis of nih 3t3 cells transformed with xenopus c-mos showed that pp39mos colocalizes with tubulin in the spindle during metaphase and in the midbody and asters during telophase . disruption of microtubules with nocodazole affected tubulin and pp39mos organization in the same way . it therefore appears that pp39mos is a tubulin-associated protein kinase and may thus participate in the modification of microtubules and contribute to the formation of the spindle . this activity expressed during interphase in somatic cells may be responsible for the transforming activity of pp39mos . 
cauda equina anatomy . i : intrathecal nerve root organization . the three-dimensional organization of the human cauda equina has not been described previously . this is partly due to the difficulties of dissecting individual , unfixed nerve roots . by the use of a newly developed in situ fixation and embedding technique on 15 fresh human cadavers , the cross-sectional anatomy of the cauda equina was defined from l2-l3 to l5-s1 . a highly consistent cross-sectional pattern was observed in all specimens . the lower sacral ( s2-s5 ) and coccygeal roots were located in the dorsal aspect of the thecal sac , whereas the lumbar and first sacral roots exhibited an oblique , layered pattern as they ascended . the motor bundle was situated anteromedial to its respective sensory bundle within each layer , invaginations of arachnoid held the nerve roots in a fixed relationship to one another . this previously undescribed three-dimensional anatomy within the thecal sac may aid in the understanding and treatment of trauma , neurocompressive syndromes , and tumors of the cauda equina . 
1990 acromed award in basic science . cauda equina anatomy . ii : extrathecal nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia . inconsistent data exist regarding the anatomy of the spinal nerve roots lateral to the thecal sac . a newly developed in situ technique was used to precisely define anatomic parameters on 20 fresh human cadavers . the take-off angle of the nerve roots from the thecal sac decreases from a mean of approximately 40 degrees from l1-l5 to 22 degrees at s1 . the motor bundles are directly ventral to the sensory fibers within individual roots extrathecally . dorsal root ganglia size varies with vertebral level . the majority of ganglia lie directly beneath the vertebral pedicles and one third overlie a portion of the lateral intervertebral disc . these previously undescribed relationships may aid in the understanding of lumbosacral neurocompressive disorders and are important to note during pedicle screw insertion , posterolateral decompression for spinal trauma , and paravertebral approaches for lateral disc herniations . 
scoliosis in trisomy 18 . patients with trisomy 18 typically present with multiple congenital anomalies and most die within the first year . however , long-term survivors are not uncommon . seventeen patients with trisomy 18 were evaluated to study the development of scoliosis associated with this disorder . there were 13 females and 4 males with ages ranging from birth to 22 years . twelve patients died by age 2 . none developed scoliosis or had vertebral anomalies . the five patients who survived beyond age 2 developed scoliosis . curve progression was demonstrated in the patients who returned for follow-up . bracing was not well tolerated in two patients with curves of 48 degrees and 58 degrees . both had poor motor control and sitting ability . one patient with a 30 degree curve was successfully managed by bracing . another patient with a severe scoliosis was successfully fused with anterior and posterior instrumentation . patients with trisomy 18 should be carefully evaluated for scoliosis . scoliosis in the older child , surviving beyond age 2 , may be progressive and difficult to manage . 
prognostic indicators for acute low-back pain . chart review was conducted on a 6-month sample of patients with low-back to identify outcome indicators in acute low-back pain . two hundred seven episodes were identified . extracted material included the age , sex , past history , time to presentation , occupation , suggested precipitating event of injury , and estimated difficulty of job tasks . symptoms and findings presentation were also recorded . all cases were work-related , and the outcome indicator was time loss from work . analysis of variance showed significant associations in time loss from work with factors including the occupation , age , job difficulty , past history , symptoms , examination , and diagnosis on presentation . 
cumulative load as a risk factor for back pain . the association between cumulative load ( biomechanic load and exposure time integral over the entire work experience ) and back pain was investigated in a group of institutional aides with physically stressful jobs . a questionnaire/interview was conducted with 161 of these institutional aides . the point prevalence of back pain in this sample was 62 % . men had worked a mean duration of 14.3 years and women 11.6 years at the time of the onset of the first pain episode . every job performed was analyzed by the use of a two-dimensional static mathematical model . the compression and shear at the thoracolumbar and lumbosacral discs were computed by the use of a biomechanic model . cumulative compression and shear were significantly higher in institutional aides with pain compared with those without pain ( p less than 0.05-0 .01 ) . the pain group was similar to the no-pain group in age , weight , and height . 
a prospective study of patients with sciatica . a comparison between conservatively treated patients and patients who have undergone operation , part i : patient characteristics and differences between groups . based on a prospective study on 342 sciatica patients examined with rhizography , the aim was to determine which factors others than the rhizography finding and the grade and duration of symptoms were related to the selection of patients to undergo operation . compared with surgically treated patients , conservatively treated patients who did not undergo operation and who had pathologic rhizography findings had pessimistic attitudes to possible surgery , often expressed a desire to retire , and considered their work as physically stressful . the women in this group were older and had lower pain indices than women who underwent operation . conservatively treated patients with negative rhizography had more severe occupational handicaps , minor expectations of possible surgery , physically more strenuous jobs requiring difficult physical positions , and lower indices for pain and adl than did the operated patients . the social and ergonomic background problems are emphasized in sciatica patients conservatively treated after rhizography . 
a prospective study of patients with sciatica . a comparison between conservatively treated patients and patients who have undergone operation , part ii : results after one year follow-up . the prospective study included 122 sciatica patients who had not undergone operation ( nops ) and 220 sciatica patients who had undergone operation ( ops ) ; all had been examined by rhizography . the follow-up study was done on 110 ( 90 % ) of the nops and 212 ( 96 % ) of the ops . the nops were divided into two groups : 30 patients with pathologic rhizography ( pr ) and 80 patients with negative rhizography ( nr ) . pain - , adl - , and occupation-handicap indices showed that after the 1 year follow-up the op group had the best result and the nr group the lowest result . the pr group had nearly as good a result as the op group . thus , sciatica patients are candidates for conservative therapy , even though they have pathologic findings in rhizography , if the symptoms are mild . to improve therapeutic outcome , more accurate diagnostic tools are needed to develop specific therapy especially for those sciatica patients with negative rhizography . 
total gastrectomy for gastric cancer in the elderly . of 1070 patients with gastric cancers , 292 patients underwent total gastrectomy during 13 years . sixty patients were more than 70 years of age and 232 were under 69 years . the incidence of well-differentiated carcinomas and poorly differentiated carcinomas was the same in the elderly patients , whereas the latter was dominant in the young patients . however , there was no significant difference between the two groups regarding location , size , macroscopic patterns , extent of lymph metastases , or stage classification . the rates of preoperative surgical risk factors were significantly different between the two groups ( p less than 0.01 ) : 90.0 % for the elderly and 34.9 % for the young patients . however , the rates of postoperative morbidity and mortality were 31.7 % and 3.3 % for the elderly and 24.1 % and 1.3 % for the young patients , respectively , with no significant difference . the 5 - and 10-year survival rates after curative total gastrectomy were 48.6 % and 23.2 % for the elderly compared with 49.4 % and 33.6 % for the young patients , respectively , with no significant difference . a 5-year survival rate after noncurative operation was 0 % for the elderly and 6.4 % for the young patients . these results indicate that , when performed for cure , total gastrectomy with systematic lymphadenectomy can provide good long-term results for elderly , as well as young , patients . 
increased sensitivity to endotoxemia by tissue necrosis . in this study the interaction of endotoxemia and ischemic organ injury was investigated in a rat model . animals received lipopolysaccharide to induce endotoxemia and were simultaneously subjected to renal ischemia . if only renal ischemia was induced , moderate azotemia occurred and all animals survived . lipopolysaccharide treatment caused neither renal failure nor death . however , rats with both endotoxemia and renal ischemia showed severe azotemia , and 50 % of the animals died within 48 hours . the observed mortality rate is unlikely related to renal failure since animals subjected to bilateral nephrectomy did not die within 48 hours after treatment with lipopolysaccharide . to further exclude the role of renal failure in the enhanced effect of endotoxemia , experiments were performed in which ischemic kidneys were excised from littermates and were placed in the abdomens of lipopolysaccharide-treated animals . a similar effect was observed : 50 % of the animals died within 48 hours . azotemia did not occur . since tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) is an important cytokine involved in endotoxemia-induced morbidity and death , we studied the role of tnf in our model . plasma levels of tnf were increased during endotoxemia . concomitant renal ischemic injury did not influence the concentration of tnf . when animals were treated with recombinant tnf and were subsequently subjected to renal ischemic injury , again a 50 % mortality was observed , a rate similar to that in lipopolysaccharide-treated animals . we conclude that the sensitivity to endotoxemia is enhanced by tissue necrosis and may lead to death in the experimental model used in this study . 
a preliminary study of dye-enhanced laser photosclerosis . laser ablation of veins after injection of wavelength-specific dyes to enhance and localize energy absorption could provide a useful adjunct to current treatment options . to enhance the absorption of diode laser energy at 808 nm , ear veins of 41 rabbits were infused with 2 to 3 ml of indocyanine green dye ( maximum absorption , 805 nm ) and exposed for 2 to 20 seconds . animals were killed between 0 and 28 days after operation . discrete time intervals of laser exposure exist during which various-sized vessels can be ablated without significant thermal injury to the overlying tissue . small vessels ( 0.2 mm in diameter ) blanch after 2 to 3 seconds of exposure , whereas medium-sized vessels ( 2 mm in diameter ) require 8 to 10 seconds . vessels can be ablated with a power density as low as 11.1 w/cm2 . specimens taken immediately after laser exposure show vessel wall thinning and a reirradiation effect , created as laser energy initially absorbed by dye is reemitted . by the seventh day after operation , a brisk inflammatory response and acanthosis of the overlying epidermal layer develop . the lumen is partially filled by thrombus with cellular invasion . by postoperative day 28 , the epidermal thickening and inflammatory reaction have resolved ; the vessel walls are fibrotic . the use of low-power , air-cooled diode lasers , in conjunction with wavelength-specific dyes , may provide a simple , viable , and cosmetically appealing alternative to the treatment of superficial varicosities of the extremities . 
hepatomuscular failure in septic catabolism : altered muscular response to plasma proteolytic factor in decreased hepatic mitochondrial redox potential . to estimate the contribution of muscle protein in whole-body protein catabolism , the muscular contribution index ( mci ; urine 3-methylhistidine/urine total nitrogen ) was determined in 49 cases of elective laparotomy , together with the arterial blood ketone body ratio ( kbr ; acetoacetate/beta-hydroxybutyrate ) , which reflects hepatic mitochondrial redox potential . mci increased after operation and the occurrence of severe infection , provided kbr was maintained above 0.7 . in patients with sepsis , however , mci decreased dependently with kbr ( n = 33 ; p less than 0.01 ) . in these patients , plasma proteolysis-inducing activity determined by in vitro bioassay increased in inverse proportion to kbr ( n = 20 , p less than 0.01 ) . moreover , plasma concentrations of not only aromatic but also branched-chain amino acids markedly increased when kbr decreased to below 0.4 ( n = 23 ; p less than 0.05 ) . thus the role of muscle protein in septic catabolism is diminished under reduced hepatic mitochondrial redox potential , despite the rapid increase of proteolysis-inducing activity . this finally leads to the failure of amino acid uptake by muscles , as well as liver . these results suggest that the deteriorated substrate exchange may form the metabolic background for multiple systems organ failure , which is often preceded by reduced kbr . 
treatment of solitary arteriovenous fistulas . four patients with a solitary arteriovenous fistula were treated by transvascular balloon embolization technique , which resulted in complete fistula closure in three patients and partial closure in one . there were two vertebral arteriovenous fistulas , one peroneal arteriovenous fistula , and one radial arteriovenous fistula . the first two fistulas were spontaneous , the other two were traumatic . the only partial occlusion of the peroneal fistula was , in our opinion , due to a technical failure , the balloon was inflated slightly proximal to the fistular orificium instead of in the orificium itself . there were no complications , and there was no morbidity . in our opinion transvascular balloon embolization technique is the treatment of choice for solitary arteriovenous fistulas . 
effects of hypothyroidism on bronchial reactivity in non-asthmatic subjects . the effect of hypothyroidism on non-specific bronchial reactivity was studied in 11 patients without pulmonary disease ( mean age 40 ( sd 13 ) years ) who had had a total thyroidectomy and radioiodine treatment for thyroid cancer 41 ( 36 ) months before the study . all patients when mildly hyperthyroid while having long term thyroxine replacement treatment and once when hypothyroid two weeks after stopping triiodothyronine for the purpose of screening for metastases . bronchial reactivity was assessed by measuring specific airways conductance ( sgaw ) after increasing doses of inhaled carbachol ( 45-1260 micrograms ) . the dose producing a 35 % decrease in sgaw ( pd35 ) was determined from the cumulative log dose-response curve by linear regression analysis . mean baseline sgaw values were similar when the patients were hypothyroid and when they were hyperthyroid ( 1.35 ( 0.36 ) and 1.41 ( 0.56 ) s-1 kpa-1 ) . the interstudy coefficients of variation of baseline sgaw were higher in the thyroid patients than in a euthyroid control group ( 14 % versus 8 % ) . geometric mean pd35 was lower when the patients were hypothyroid ( 97 micrograms ) than when they were mildly hyperthyroid ( 192 micrograms ) . it is concluded that acute hypothyroidism increases non-specific bronchial reactivity in nonasthmatic subjects . 
intercostal arteriovenous fistula due to pleural biopsy a 32 year old woman had a pleural biopsy for a left pleural effusion , which showed caseating granuloma typical of tuberculosis . when the fourth biopsy specimen was removed considerable bleeding occurred from the puncture site . four days later a bruit was audible over the punctured area , radiating to the back . eight days after the procedure the patient had a massive bleed into the left pleural space . selective aortic angiography showed an arteriovenous fistula between the 9th intercostal artery and vein and a pseudoaneurysm in the intercostal punctured area . thoracotomy showed bleeding from the site of the pleural biopsy . the intercostal vessels were ligated and pleural decortication was performed , and the patient recovered uneventfully . 
dilated renal collecting systems : differentiating obstructive from nonobstructive dilation using duplex doppler ultrasound . two patients with ileal loop urinary diversions , studied with real-time and doppler sonography ( " duplex sonography " ) of the kidneys , were shown to have dilated intrarenal collecting systems . resistive index measurements calculated from the doppler signal correctly identified obstructive dilatation in 1 case and nonobstructive dilatation in the other . 
flow cytometric detection of tumor metastases during urologic surgery . flow cytometric studies were performed on peripheral blood obtained before , during , and subsequent to urologic surgery . the results suggest that 7 of 11 patients had a brief period during surgical manipulation when they had cells from the primary surgical site in the peripheral blood . concentration of such cells was generally less than 10 ( 2 ) / ml even during the intraoperative period . these findings suggest that perioperative tumor seeding is a real concern , and that flow cytometry can be used to study maneuvers to reduce its incidence . 
cytologic identification of clinically occult proliferative breast disease in women with a family history of breast cancer . a cytologic method for sampling the normal breast by fine-needle aspiration ( fna ) was used to determine the frequency of clinically inapparent proliferative breast disease ( pbd ) in women with family histories of breast cancer . the authors attempted to obtain specimens from each quadrant of both breasts in 51 female first-degree relatives of breast cancer patients . the study group had no detectable masses by physical examination or mammography . samples were prepared on membrane filters , papanicolaou stained , and evaluated cytomorphologically . three hundred seventy-eight of 408 ( 92.6 % ) possible quadrants were sampled ; cellular material was obtained from 290 ( 76.7 % ) quadrants . pbd was identified in 20 of the 51 women ( 39.2 % ) . when epithelium was obtained , nuclear area , perimeter , and diameter were measured with the use of computerized image analysis . nuclei in samples containing atypical hyperplasia showed significant differences in these parameters when compared with cells from samples containing normal epithelium or benign hyperplasia . the authors ' findings indicate that fna sampling and computerized image analysis are useful in the detection and characterization of clinically inapparent pbd . 
metastatic small cell tumor of bone with ' true ' rosettes and glial fibrillary acidic protein positivity . a 15-year-old black girl was admitted to st. jude children 's research hospital with a lytic lesion involving the right fourth metacarpal bone with a solitary metastasis to the ipsilateral axillary lymph node . histologic examination of both the primary lesion and metastasis revealed a primitive small round cell lesion . abundant rosettes with central lumina were present in the metastasis . immunohistochemical stains performed on sections of the metastasis were strongly positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein ( gfap ) and negative for neuron-specific enolase ( nse ) , s-100 protein , and leu-7 . electron microscopic examination of the metastasis revealed lumen formation with apical microvilli and juxtaluminal junctional complexes . this tumor exhibits features that are suggestive , but not definitive , of primitive ependymal differentiation and further expands the morphologic and immunophenotypic range of small round cell tumors of bone . 
granulocytic sarcoma presenting as an epidural mass with acute paraparesis in an aleukemic patient . granulocytic sarcomas are rare tumors composed of granulocytic precursor cells . they are most commonly encountered in patients with acute myelogenous leukemias and myeloproliferative disorders in blast crisis . rarely , patients presenting with granulocytic sarcoma show no evidence of acute leukemia . the authors report an aleukemic patient with acute paraparesis from an epidural granulocytic sarcoma . only five such cases have been reported previously . immunoperoxidase stain for lysozyme and chloroacetate esterase stain were used to prove the myeloid origin of the tumor cells . 
munchausen syndrome by proxy documented by discrepant blood typing . the authors describe a case of munchausen syndrome by proxy , a form of child abuse , documented by use of routine blood bank serologic procedures . while immunohematologic testing has been used in the legal arena to resolve issues of disputed paternity and to investigate instances of criminal acts , the authors believe this to be the first documented application to this clinical disorder . 
the analysis of erythrocyte morphologic characteristics in urine using a hematologic flow cytometer and microscopic methods . three methods for the examination of erythrocyte morphology in urine are described : phase contrast microscopy , microscopy of cytocentrifuged and stained preparations , and erythrocyte analysis with the technicon h1 . analysis with the h1 has not been described until now . all methods can be used to discriminate between dysmorphic and isomorphic erythrocytes . the red cell distribution width was the best h1 parameter for this discrimination . the authors have found a good correlation between the microscopic methods . the clinical impact of the three methods was studied with urine samples from patients with a confirmed diagnosis . the discrimination between renal and nonrenal hematuria is similar with phase contrast microscopy and cytocentrifuged preparations . the use of the h1 for this discrimination is not recommended . 
small bowel enteroscopy and intraoperative enteroscopy for obscure gastrointestinal bleeding . intraoperative endoscopy ( ioe ) is accepted as the ultimate diagnostic procedure for completely evaluating the small bowel in patients with obscure gastrointestinal ( gi ) bleeding . small bowel enteroscopy ( sbe ) has been reported useful in the nonsurgical evaluation of the small intestine in these patients , but findings may be limited because of incomplete small bowel intubation and a lack of tip deflection . twenty-three patients underwent 25 sbe exams and subsequently had 25 ioe exams during surgical exploration for continued bleeding . patients ' bleeding histories averaged 2 yr , with an average transfusion requirement of 27 units . findings on ioe were the same as with sbe in 17/22 ( 77 % ) of examinations . we conclude that sbe and ioe are comparable in depth of insertion and ability to detect small vascular ectasias . both procedures missed pathology due to limited visibility and the evanescent nature of ectasias . long-term success in abolishing bleeding with these combined techniques can be expected in 55 % of these patients . sbe should precede surgery , since the finding of diffuse ectasias precludes any benefit from operative intervention . 
fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcer . in order to characterize the fine structure of active and healed duodenal ulcers , we examined tissue specimens of patients with active duodenal ulcer disease ( n = 30 ) before and after treatment with either antacids ( n = 16 ) or h2-receptor antagonists ( n = 14 ) , by light microscopy and various electron microscopic techniques , e.g. , scanning and transmission electron microscopy . the characteristic histological feature of both the active and healed duodenal ulcer was the appearance of periodic acid-schiff ( pas ) - positive epithelial cells at the edge of the ulcers . electron microscopy revealed that these cells were similar to a special type of mucus-secreting cell in the antrum ( surface mucous cell ) . their mucus granules contained mainly neutral glycoproteins . helicobacter pylori were found attached to these cells in tissue specimens from 12 of 30 patients ( 40 % ) . the mucous structure destroyed during the ulcerative phase regained its normal net-like structure after treatment . the ultrastructural healing process of duodenal ulcer was characterized by the presence of gastric metaplasia , by stunted microvilli of the duodenal epithelium ( p less than 0.001 vs. control group ) , and an increased number of lysosome-like bodies ( p less than 0.001 vs. control group ) of the epithelial cells . these results were independent of the type of treatment , and showed that the repair mechanisms were incomplete after a 4-wk period of treatment . 
colonoscopy during an attack of severe ulcerative colitis is a safe procedure and of great value in clinical decision making . thirty-four patients who had severe ulcerative colitis had a colonoscopic examination during the attack . the indications were resistance to therapy and/or differential diagnostic purposes . total colonoscopy was performed in 25 cases and less extensive examination in nine . biopsy was taken in 22 cases . no clinically significant complications occurred . the procedure helped us to postpone immediate surgical intervention in 19 cases . fourteen of these patients have maintenance treatment and are still well after a follow-up median time of 5 yr ( 6 months to 10 yr ) . 
exocrine pancreatic function in chronic liver diseases . to confirm the respective influence of chronic alcoholism and liver disease on exocrine pancreatic function in cholecystokinin secretin ( cs ) , tests were performed on patients with chronic liver cirrhosis ( lc ) and non-cirrhotic ( nlc ) disease of alcoholic ( a ) and nonalcoholic ( na ) etiology . results were compared in four subgroups ( alc , n = 26 ; anlc , n = 45 ; nalc , n = 18 ; and nanlc , n = 43 ) . volume of duodenal juice and bicarbonate output ( bo ) were increased and maximal bicarbonate concentration was decreased in alc , compared with those in normal controls . comparison of lc and nlc indicated that the volume , bo , and amylase output ( ao ) were greater in lc than in nlc of alcoholic etiology , but not in those of nonalcoholic etiology . the initial disappearance rate ( kicg ) of indocyanine green ( icg ) excretion correlated with a parameter of cs test in alcoholic liver disease ( vs. volume : r = -0.51 , p less than 0.01 vs bo : r = -0.40 , p less than 0.01 ) , but not in nonalcoholic liver disease . concurrent chronic pancreatitis with pain and definite exocrine insufficiency was observed in only one alc patient and in four anlc patients , but in none of the nonalcoholics . in alcoholic liver disease , exocrine pancreatic secretion tends to increase with severity of liver damage , but concurrence of definite chronic pancreatitis is not correlated with the severity . 
prognostic factors in alcoholic liver disease . va cooperative study group . two hundred eighty-one alcoholic patients were prospectively evaluated by clinical , biochemical , and histologic parameters during a 4-yr period to assess their prognosis . they were stratified into four categories of injury : 1 ) fatty liver ( 26 patients ) , 2 ) acute alcoholic hepatitis ( 106 ) , 3 ) cirrhosis ( 39 ) , and 4 ) cirrhosis with superimposed alcoholic hepatitis ( 111 ) . the rate of survival and variables correlating with survival varied according to the group . at 48 months , 70 % of the patients with fatty liver were alive , 58 % in the alcoholic hepatitis group , 49 % in cirrhosis , and 35 % in alcoholic hepatitis superimposed upon cirrhosis . within group one , deaths were due to causes unrelated to liver disease . in the alcoholic hepatitis group , factors significantly correlating with survival were ascites , alanine amino-transferase levels , grams of alcohol consumed , continuation of alcohol intake , and clinical severity of disease . survival in patients of group three correlated significantly with prothrombin time and histologic severity score . patients with combined cirrhosis and alcoholic hepatitis exhibited the worst prognosis , with the most significant predictors of survival being age , grams of alcohol consumed , the ratio of serum aminotransferases ( ast : alt ) and the histologic and clinical severity of the disease . although a different pattern of correlates was observed for each pathologic level of injury , knowledge of the various correlates aids in prognostic assessment . 
kawasaki-like syndrome after treatment with mesalazine . we report a patient who developed a severe hypersensitivity reaction , including rash , lymph node enlargement , fever , hepatitis , and eosinophilia , after sulphasalazine therapy . five years later , he developed a similar reaction after exposure to mesalazine , the salicylic compound of sulphasalazine . we conclude that patients with known severe systemic reaction to sulphasalazine therapy are also at risk for such a reaction when treated with a 5-asa preparation . 
congenital duodenal diaphragm : conversion of stable chronic symptoms to subacute gastric outlet obstruction by penetrating foreign body . congenital duodenal diaphragms ( cdd ) are rare lesions that usually become symptomatic and require surgery in childhood . we report a patient , who , although symptomatic since early childhood , had accommodated to the condition and finally required surgical correction in late life after an ingested foreign body traumatized the diaphragm , producing subacute gastric outlet obstruction . the condition , including the reconstruction of the precipitating event , was diagnosed endoscopically prior to surgery . 
endoscopic management of postoperative biliary leaks : review of 77 cases and report of two cases with biloma formation . biliary leaks are uncommon complications of abdominal surgery . left untreated , they may result in significant morbidity and mortality . the traditional treatment has been surgical , but several authors have reported successful endoscopic management . we review 77 cases of endoscopically managed postoperative biliary leaks reported in the literature over the past 15 yr . endoscopic treatment was technically successful in 95 % of cases , and resulted in biliary leak healing in 82 % . cystic stump leaks had a better prognosis for healing compared with common bile duct or hepatic duct leaks . we also present two additional cases of postoperative biliary leaks with biloma formation successfully treated with endoscopic stent placement . our experience lends additional support to endoscopic management as the preferred approach to postoperative biliary leaks . 
maternal and fetal complications in pregnant women with systemic lupus erythematosus . recent studies provide important insights into maternal complications in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) established before onset of pregnancy . exacerbations or relapse occur during the course of pregnancy and immediately postpartum in 25 % to 60 % of pregnancies . however , the likelihood of increased clinical activity of sle during pregnancy is influenced by signs of activity present at onset of pregnancy . in the absence of signs of clinical activity for at least 6 months before conception , relapses occur in about one third , whereas in patients with clinical activity at onset of pregnancy , persistent activity or exacerbations occur in approximately two thirds . fetal survival in these patients parallels the incidence of sle activity : 85 % to 95 % in the group with inactive disease at conception and 50 % to 80 % in subjects with active disease at onset of pregnancy . the introduction of an assay for anticardiolipids has led to a new concept for the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease , namely immune-related thrombosis . recent studies suggest that this mechanism may play an important role in clinical episodes in sle , involving late fetal death and maternal arterial and venous thrombosis . 
recurrent acute glomerulonephritis . biopsy-proven recurrent acute glomerulonephritis ( agn ) is extremely rare and is usually seen in children with acute , well-defined streptococcal infections . we present here a patient with recurrent agn in the absence of chronic bacterial infection . the subject , an 80-year-old man , had eight episodes of acute nephritic syndrome following upper respiratory tract infection . no abnormalities were detected during remissions . renal biopsies during two of those episodes showed typical postinfectious acute exsudative endocapillary glomerulonephritis , while results of another biopsy performed during remission were normal . 
heparin skin necrosis : delayed occurrence in a patient on hemodialysis . a case of skin necrosis in a patient receiving intravenous ( iv ) heparin during routine intermittent hemodialysis is reported . multiple erythematous , tender lesions developed over the abdomen and thighs and rapidly became necrotic . biopsies showed fibrin thrombi in the dermal venules and capillaries , but no cellular infiltrate . the patient was in her third month of regular hemodialysis . skin necrosis associated with the use of heparin usually occurs within 2 weeks of beginning heparin therapy and has not been reported in patients receiving heparin with hemodialysis . possible mechanisms , including acquired antithrombin iii deficiency leading to heparin-induced skin necrosis , are discussed . 
endosalpingosis as a cause of chronic pelvic pain . endosalpingosis , a condition characterized by ectopic oviduct epithelium , is diagnosed histologically by the appearance of benign ciliated and nonciliated columnar cells in an abnormal location . endosalpingosis is typically without symptoms . our unusual case report shows symptomatic endosalpingosis first seen with chronic pelvic pain . various aspects of this disease will also be discussed . 
continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in hypertensive crises in pregnancy . twenty-four patients first seen with hypertensive crises during pregnancy were studied by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring for a period of 24 hours to detect the presence of serious ventricular arrhythmias . three patients were excluded from analysis because of low serum potassium levels . thirteen of the remaining 21 patients had ventricular tachycardia on subsequent analysis of the electrocardiogram . these arrhythmias subsided after induction of anesthesia when blood pressure control was optimal . this finding may be implicated in the pathogenesis of pulmonary edema and sudden death in these patients . 
prospective analysis of sperm-oocyte fusion and reactive oxygen species generation as criteria for the diagnosis of infertility . we have undertaken a prospective analysis of the diagnostic significance of three different criteria of human sperm function including the conventional semen profile , measurements of hamster-oocyte fusion , and determinations of reactive oxygen species generation in 139 couples . the latter , who were characterized by a lack of detectable abnormalities in the female partner , were followed up for a maximum of 4 years to determine the incidence of spontaneous pregnancy in the absence of therapeutic intervention . assessments of monthly fecundity with life table analysis techniques revealed a highly significant , positive relationship between fertility and hamster-oocyte fusion rates that were measured in the presence of the ionophore , a23187 . conversely , reactive oxygen species generation was shown to be negatively associated with both the outcome of the sperm-oocyte fusion assay and fertility in vivo . the clinical significance of these diagnostic techniques was emphasized by the fact that within the same data set , the conventional semen profile was of no significant diagnostic value . 
analysis of antigen expression at multiple tumor sites in epithelial ovarian cancer . the question of whether the antigenic phenotype of human epithelial ovarian cancer varies in a given patient between the primary tumor and metastatic sites or among metastatic sites themselves is an important issue in planning potential therapeutic strategies for ovarian cancer . we have obtained tumor specimens from at least two separate sites during operations on 12 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer , and we have typed these specimens with a group of 18 monoclonal antibodies that react with cell-surface glycoprotein and carbohydrate antigens , including blood group antigens . antibodies with relative specificity for malignant cells as well as those that detect more widely distributed epithelial antigens were used . a total of 31 specimens from 12 patients with advanced adenocarcinoma ( 8 serous , 3 undifferentiated , 1 endometrioid ) of the ovary were studied , including fresh ascites cells in two patients . frozen sections of tumor specimens were stained with the antibodies by the indirect immunoperoxidase technique and graded semiquantitatively . little difference was seen in antigenic expression of tumors that were obtained from various sites in the same patient for either the epithelial cell markers or blood group markers . intratumoral antigenic heterogeneity was seen , but this was generally quite consistent within a given patient 's specimens . as anticipated , variations in antigen expression were seen among specimens from different patients . the antigenic phenotype of the tumor specimens in a given patient , as determined immunohistochemically by our group of antibodies , showed only minor variation among primary and metastatic sites . 
pharmacokinetics of acyclovir in the term human pregnancy and neonate . concern about neonatal herpes often leads to cesarean delivery of infants in women with a history of genital herpes . the antiviral drug acyclovir has been used effectively to suppress genital herpes simplex virus recurrences in nonpregnant adults . its administration to pregnant women with recurrent genital herpes may reduce herpes simplex virus recurrences and thus may decrease the cesarean section rate among this population . to study the pharmacokinetics , safety , and patient tolerance of suppressive oral acyclovir , either 200 mg ( n = 7 ) or 400 mg ( n = 8 ) was administered orally every 8 hours to pregnant women with a history of recurrent herpes simplex virus , from 38 weeks ' gestation until delivery . the mean + / - sd plasma levels for the 200 and 400 mg groups , respectively , were : first dose peak , 1.7 + / - 0.6 and 2.3 + / - 1.0 mumol/l ; steady-state trough , 0.7 + / - 0.3 and 0.8 + / - 0.6 mumol/l ; steady-state peak , 1.9 + / - 1.0 and 3.3 + / - 1.0 mumol/l . in late gestation maternal acyclovir pharmacokinetics were similar to those of nonpregnant adults from other studies . acyclovir was concentrated in the amniotic fluid ; however , there was no accumulation in the fetus ( mean maternal/infant plasma ratio at delivery was 1.3 ) . acyclovir was well tolerated , and no toxicity was seen in the mothers or infants . the administration of acyclovir , 400 mg every 8 hours , appears appropriate for use in an efficacy and safety study regarding suppression of herpes simplex virus recurrences during the last weeks of pregnancy . 
ovarian neoplasms and the risk of adnexal torsion . previous reports examining adnexal torsion suggested that benign ovarian neoplasms are more likely to undergo torsion than malignant ovarian neoplasms . to our knowledge , this clinical observation has not been quantified . to examine this hypothesis , we reviewed our experience with ovarian neoplasms found at the time of surgery over a 10-year period . benign ovarian neoplasms had a 12.9-fold increased risk of undergoing adnexal torsion when compared with malignant ovarian neoplasms ( 95 % confidence interval , 10.2 to 15.9 ) . the histologic type of ovarian neoplasm does not appear to affect the rate of adnexal torsion . adnexal torsion rarely involves cancer . 
umbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia : a new association ? in three fetuses , congenital intestinal atresia was associated with linear ulcerations of the umbilical cord . in two cases , hemorrhage was seen from the cord ulcer . both fetuses required emergency cesarean section for fetal distress and were born anemic . the third fetus was mildly hydropic , attributed to hemorrhage , and was stillborn . the mechanism of the association could not be determined . these cases suggest a risk of prenatal umbilical cord hemorrhage in infants with intestinal atresia . 
mechanisms of hemolysis and anemia associated with acute antepartum pyelonephritis . anemia develops in about a fourth of women whose pregnancy is complicated by pyelonephritis , although its exact mechanism has not been defined clearly . in this study of 18 women with antepartum pyelonephritis , although only a third had anemia ( hematocrit less than 30 vol/dl ) , there was evidence for hemolysis in all 18 . specifically there was a mean decrease in hematocrit of 5 vol/dl from admission to discharge . with scanning electron microscopy , we compared erythrocyte morphologic aberrations that were found in women with renal infection with those of normally pregnant women , and the former had significantly increased proportions of echinocytes in particular , but schistocytes and spherocytes were increased also ( total 10.3 % vs 1.4 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . these changes , especially echinocytosis , have been induced in vitro by lipopolysaccharide , and they are known to lead to premature red blood cell destruction in vivo . we conclude that hemolysis with subsequent anemia in pregnant women with pyelonephritis is caused by lipopolysaccharide-induced red blood cell membrane damage . 
prognostic factors in gestational trophoblastic tumors : a proposed new scoring system based on multivariate analysis . all 1391 patients treated for gestational trophoblastic tumors ( invasive mole and choriocarcinoma ) at the john i. brewer trophoblastic disease center of northwestern university between 1969 ( when use of combination chemotherapy for initial treatment of high-risk disease came into general use ) and 1988 were evaluated . univariate and multivariate analyses were used to determine the relative importance of prognostic factors with respect to survival . the overall cure rate was 93 % ( 363/391 ) : 100 % for 223 patients with nonmetastatic disease and 83 % for 168 patients with metastatic disease . the only patients who died had a clinicopathologic diagnosis of metastatic choriocarcinoma . in addition to presence of metastasis ( 83 % vs 100 % , p less than 0.0001 ) and diagnosis of choriocarcinoma ( 67 % vs 100 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , number of metastases ( 47 % if greater than 8 vs 92 % if less than or equal to 8 , p less than 0.0001 ) , metastases to sites other than the lung or vagina ( 52 % vs 91 % , p = 0.0002 ) , and previous failed chemotherapy ( 46 % vs 84 % , p = 0.0014 ) demonstrated independent significant effects on survival in patients with metastatic disease . a brewer score , based on our multivariate analysis of survival in patients with metastatic disease , provided predictability of outcome ( likelihood ratio chi 2 statistic , chi 2 = 49.8 ) comparable to that with the world health organization score ( chi 2 = 45.3 ) , both of which , in turn , were better predictors than either the traditional hammond clinical classification system ( chi 2 = 34.4 ) or the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics stage ( chi 2 = 22.9 ) . 
urinary tract dilatation in pregnancy . right-sided ureteral and renal pelvis dilatation was observed during routine uterine ultrasonographic examination at 30 weeks ' gestation . this continued to progress with the renal pelvis measuring 8.9 cm in diameter at 35 weeks , leading to early delivery . renal function remained normal and these changes resolved completely after delivery . 
toxicities in rats with free versus liposomal encapsulated cisplatin . wistar rats ( five in each group ) were given either 1 mg/kg of free cisplatin , 1 or 2 mg/kg of liposomal encapsulated cisplatin , or saline solution intraperitoneally biweekly for 15 injections . rats in the free drug group showed significantly less weight gain ; two rats died during the study . at necropsy , the free cisplatin -- treated rats showed gross and microscopic evidence of peritoneal fibrosis that was not detected in any of the remaining groups . the free cisplatin -- treated rats showed serum and histologic evidence of renal damage ; all five rats had moderate or severe acute tubular necrosis . no renal abnormalities were detected in rats that received 1 mg/kg , and only focal or mild changes were found in rats that received 2 mg/kg of the liposomal preparation . neurotoxicity , as determined by nerve conduction and inclined plane studies , developed in rats treated with free and liposomal cisplatin . these results are encouraging and warrant further investigation . 
effects of acute hypermagnesemia on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures in the rat . the effects of acute changes in plasma magnesium concentration on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures were evaluated in mechanically ventilated rats receiving 70 % nitrous oxide and 30 % oxygen . in experiment 1 , male rats were intravenously administered either 0.9 % sodium chloride ( group i ) or 5.0 % magnesium sulfate to elevate plasma magnesium levels to 5.8 + / - 0.1 ( group ii ) or 10.5 + / - 1.0 mg/dl ( group iii ) . in experiment 2 , pregnant rats were intravenously administered either 0.9 % sodium chloride ( normomagnesemia ) or magnesium sulfate , resulting in a plasma magnesium concentration of 7.8 + / - 1.4 mg/dl . thirty minutes later , a continuous intravenous infusion of lidocaine ( 2.3 mg/kg per minute ) was begun in both experiments . biparietal electroencephalographic activity was monitored continuously . at the onset of electroencephalographic seizure activity , arterial plasma magnesium and lidocaine concentrations were measured . in groups i and iii ( experiment 1 ) , brain parenchymal magnesium was also assayed . there were no differences in plasma lidocaine concentrations ( in experiments 1 or 2 ) between saline solution and hypermagnesemic groups at onset of seizures . brain magnesium level was unaltered by magnesium sulfate infusion . we conclude that acute administration of magnesium sulfate alters neither brain magnesium level nor the plasma lidocaine concentration associated with onset of electroencephalographic seizures . 
posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation in eyes with inactive and active proliferative diabetic retinopathy . we reviewed the records of 2,100 consecutive eyes that had undergone extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation between january 1981 and december 1989 . of these eyes , 21 had inactive and four had active proliferative diabetic retinopathy at the time of cataract extraction . twenty-one eyes with inactive proliferative diabetic retinopathy received extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation , and four eyes with active proliferative diabetic retinopathy had both extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation and pars plana vitrectomy with endophotocoagulation . the mean follow-up period was 27 months . final visual acuity was 20/40 or better in 12 of 25 eyes ( 48 % ) . of 25 eyes , five ( 20 % ) showed progression of the retinopathy after the operation , and two ( 8 % ) developed macular edema . extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation was well tolerated in most eyes . 
extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation after scleral buckling surgery . we reviewed the records of 28 patients who had undergone successful scleral buckling surgery followed by extracapsular cataract extraction with implantation of an intraocular lens . posterior chamber intraocular lenses were inserted in 27 eyes , and anterior chamber intraocular lenses were inserted in two eyes with posterior capsule rupture at the time of surgery . the mean follow-up period was 44 months . final visual acuity was 20/40 or better in 15 of 29 eyes ( 52 % ) . one eye ( 3.4 % ) developed a recurrent retinal detachment 15 months after cataract surgery . two eyes ( 6.9 % ) developed angiographically proven cystoid macular edema . the outcome for extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation in eyes that had previously undergone successful scleral buckling for retinal detachment is favorable . 
comparison of a 3 - and 6-mm incision in combined phacoemulsification and trabeculectomy . we studied 216 eyes of 160 patients who underwent combined phacoemulsification and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation with trabeculectomy . the mean follow-up was 18.7 months , with a minimum follow-up of six months . to assess the safety and efficacy of a recently developed 3-mm incision procedure with foldable intraocular lens implantation ( phacotrabeculectomy ) , we compared 104 eyes subjected to this procedure with 112 eyes subjected to a 6-mm procedure at different follow-up periods . intraocular pressure control ( less than 21 mm hg ) was attained in 44 of 46 eyes ( 96 % ) in the 3-mm group and 71 of 76 eyes ( 93 % ) in the 6-mm group at one year postoperatively . visual acuity of 20/40 or better was attained in 40 of 46 eyes ( 87 % ) in the 3-mm group and 66 of 76 eyes ( 87 % ) in the 6-mm group . the incidence of postoperative complication was significantly lower ( p less than .001 ) and visual acuity in the early postoperative period was significantly better ( p less than .01 ) in the 3-mm incision group than in the comparison group . 
visual recovery in patients with optic neuritis and visual loss to no light perception . we reviewed the records of 151 patients with optic neuritis examined over an eight-year period . of these patients , 12 developed visual acuity of no light perception during the first episode of optic neuritis in the affected eye . eight of the 12 patients recovered visual acuity of 20/40 or better . of these , five patients had visual acuity of 20/20 or better , one had visual acuity of 20/25 , one had visual acuity of 20/30 , and one had visual acuity of 20/40 . four of the 12 patients recovered peripheral visual fields but had dense central scotomas and visual acuity of less than 20/400 . dyschromatopsia persisted after visual recovery in 11 of 12 patients . 
acetazolamide in the treatment of abnormal oculovestibular response . we treated seven patients with incapacitating vertigo elicited by walking down a grocery store aisle or driving a car . results of neurologic , neuro-ophthalmic , and neuroradiologic examinations were normal . episodic vertigo secondary to an abnormal oculovestibular response was diagnosed . each patient was given a trial of 250 to 500 mg of acetazolamide daily . symptoms resolved completely in four patients , two patients had near resolution of symptoms , and one patient had no relief . carbonic anhydrase activity has been demonstrated in the inner ear , and acetazolamide has been shown to affect the ion balance of the inner ear fluids . 
longitudinal histopathologic assessment of rejection after bladder-drained canine pancreas allograft transplantation . in preparation for assessment of percutaneous biopsies in our clinical pancreas transplant program , a working knowledge of the histopathologic changes after transplantation was obtained in a longitudinal open biopsy study of 16 dogs receiving bladder-drained whole pancreas allografts . edema , extravasation of polymorphs , and lymphocytes associated with focal parenchymal injury were early , invariable , and probably nonspecific findings . the initial feature of unmodified rejection was the appearance of capillary and small vein endothelial changes with mainly perivascular inflammatory cell infiltration . acinar cell loss occurred early and was progressive , whereas islets and ducts were relatively preserved , indicating that acinar tissue may be more vulnerable to lytic necrosis when damaged . functional rejection , determined by fasting urinary amylase levels , was at a stage of extensive and irreversible necrosis . functioning grafts in immunosuppressed dogs had minor and transient endothelial changes with absence of class ii antigen staining of parenchymal cells . 
vascular and nonvascular expression of incam-110 . a target for mononuclear leukocyte adhesion in normal and inflamed human tissues . inducible cell adhesion molecule 110 ( incam-110 ) , is a 110-kd adhesion receptor for lymphocytes and monocytes identified on cytokine-activated endothelium . using immunoperoxidase techniques , little or no incam-110 was detected on endothelium in normal human tissues . in contrast , incam-110 was expressed in postcapillary venules in a variety of active inflammatory processes . in acute appendicitis , incam-110 was found coincident with strong expression of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 ( elam-1 ) , a cytokine-inducible molecule that functions in neutrophil adhesion . however , in certain chronic inflammatory processes ( eg , sarcoidosis ) , incam-110 was observed without simultaneous elam-1 expression . anti-incam-110 antibody e1/6 also marked several extravascular cell types , including lymphoid dendritic cells , some tissue macrophages , synovial lining cells , and reactive mesothelial cells . these data suggest a role for endothelial incam-110 in the pathophysiology of both acute and chronic inflammatory reactions . furthermore incam-110 may function as an adhesion molecule for mononuclear leukocytes in a variety of extravascular sites . 
marker profile of different phases in the transition of normal human ovarian epithelium to ovarian carcinomas . to investigate whether early changes in the transformation of normal ovarian epithelial cells into tumor cells can be detected with monoclonal antibodies , a comparative immunohistochemical study was performed on normal human ovarian mesothelial cells , cystomas , cystadenomas , ovarian carcinomas , as well as granulosa cell tumor . using monoclonal antibodies against different keratin subtypes , it was shown that mesothelial cells , ovarian cysts , cystadenomas , and carcinomas all reacted positively with broad-spectrum anti-keratin monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) , as well as with mabs to keratins 7 , 8 , 18 , and 19 . keratins 4 and 13 were not found in mesothelial cells , but positive groups of cells were identified in several cystomas , adenomas , and carcinomas . while mesothelial cells did not react with the pan-epithelial marker bw495/36 , invaginating metaplastic mesothelial cells , inclusion cysts , cystomas , adenomas , and carcinomas showed an increasing reactivity with bw495/36 , with an increasing degree of malignancy . the reactivity of mabs against ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens ( ov-tl 3 , oc 125 , mov 18 , and ov-tl 10 ) was limited to weak staining reaction in some mesothelial cells but were found to be positive on more than 50 % of the ovarian cystadenomas and more than 90 % of the ovarian carcinomas . thecal and granulosa cells of primordial , primary , and secondary follicles all reacted positively with antibodies to the broad-spectrum keratins ov-tl 12/5 and rck 102 , and to keratins 8 and 18 , but not with keratins 4 , 7 , 13 , and 19 . these keratins decreased or disappeared in granulosa cells of mature follicles ( graafian follicles ) , whereas granulosa cell tumors did not react with anti-keratin antibodies . the reactivity of bw 495/36 was negative or limited to traces in some granulosa cells . ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens were not expressed in granulosa cells or granulosa cell tumors . the data indicate that mesothelial cells undergoing metaplastic changes finally resulting in ovarian cystadenomas ( and carcinomas ) initiate the synthesis of a 200-kd glycoprotein recognized by mab ( bw 495/36 ) , the production of ovarian carcinoma associated antigens , in addition to focal production of keratin 4 and/or 13 , as seen in several samples . the granulosa cell tumors decrease or switch off their keratin production and remain negative for the 200-kd glycoprotein and the ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens . 
genetics and psychiatry : an unheralded window on the environment . two recent reviews in the american journal of psychiatry and the british journal of psychiatry reported on progress in understanding the genetics of psychiatric disorder . both reviews focused on this progress as a prelude to psychiatric diagnostics and therapeutics based on molecular biology . neither review recognized that the latest data in behavioral genetics support environmental causes for abnormal development and psychopathology as much as they support genetic causes . moreover , these genetic data point clearly to a type of environmental cause with central importance : the environment that is specific or unique to each sibling in a family . 
nortriptyline treatment of depressed cardiac transplant recipients . the safety of tricyclic antidepressants in cardiac transplant recipients has not been established . the author used nortriptyline to treat major depressive episodes in eight cardiac transplant recipients . nortriptyline therapy was associated with increased qrs interval and heart rate but did not significantly affect other hemodynamic or ecg variables or cyclosporine dose requirements . it appears that nortriptyline may be used safely in depressed cardiac transplant patients . 
human atherosclerotic coronary artery xenografts : a model for investigation of transluminal recanalization . a model for testing transluminal recanalization techniques was developed . fragments of human atherosclerotic coronary arteries were transplanted into carotid arteries of dogs and evaluated by angiographic , angioscopic , and histologic study within a three-month period . an inflammatory response was most intense within the first week . by two weeks no inflammation was noted . total occlusion ( n = 13 ) and stenosis ( n = 11 ) of the carotid arteries were achieved without complications . the model is easy to produce within a short period and the arterial occlusion resembles human vascular disease . this model has been used to evaluate laser recanalization of vascular obstructions . 
st segment alternans during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty -- a case report . the occurrence of electrical alternans of the st segment has been reported in patients with variant angina . the authors encountered a patient with typical electrical alternans of the st segment in leads v4 through v6 , which developed during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) of the proximal left anterior descending artery . hemodynamic pulsus alternans of the aortic pressure tracing was not observed during electrical alternans , and a ca2 + blocker could not prevent this phenomenon during ptca . 
angioplasty of renal arteries : a report of ten year 's experience . report of pta of renal arteries in 288 patients . primary results show good to optimal dilatation of the arteries ( 60.6 % to 78.6 % ) . one third of all cases achieved optimal blood pressures . in about 40 % antihypertensive drugs had to be administered , in about 30 % blood pressure remained unchanged although pta was effective . pta of renal arteries is the best method of treating renal hypertension , also because of the low rate of complications . 
coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis in association with osler-weber-rendu disease -- a case report . a fifty-three-year-old woman presented with coronary artery aneurysm in association with osler-weber-rendu disease ( hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ) manifested also by large pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas . the arterial dye dilution curves were unusually distorted owing to the right-to-left shunts . the coronary artery aneurysm was located in multiple sites but was not accompanied by stenotic lesions . coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis is a rare pathologic state and has not been previously reported in association with hereditary telangiectasia . 
how long can a coronary reperfusion catheter be placed in acute coronary occlusion following failed transluminal coronary angioplasty ? a case report . a coronary reperfusion catheter ( crc ) is designed to preserve antegrade coronary flow when abrupt coronary closure occurs during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) . insertion of the catheter to an occluded coronary artery for a few hours has been reported to be effective for myocardial salvage : however , it is unknown how long the catheter can be kept in place without causing extension of myocardial ischemia . the authors experienced a case in which the crc was kept in place for twenty-four hours for anticoagulant therapy of an occluded coronary artery following failure of ptca . this case suggests that adequate anticoagulant therapy can prolong the period during which a crc can be kept in place if emergency coronary bypass surgery can not be performed immediately after failure of coronary angioplasty . 
splenectomy for the massively enlarged spleen . the experience at the national cancer institute from 1955 to 1988 with 46 cases of splenectomy for massive splenomegaly ( greater than or equal to 1,500 grams ) was reviewed to assess the indications , pathology , operative , and postoperative course for this procedure . the median age was 51 years . thirty-one splenectomies ( 67.4 % ) were performed for malignancy ( chronic lymphocytic leukemia , 11 ; chronic myelogenous leukemia , 10 ; lymphoma , 9 ; hairy cell leukemia , 1 ) , 11 for myeloid metaplasia , and four for other nonmalignant conditions . indications for splenectomy included hypersplenism ( 32 patients ) , symptoms ( 6 ) , diagnosis ( 3 ) , and splenic rupture ( 3 ) . a midline incision ( 30 patients ) was most commonly used . median operative time was 2 hours , 50 minutes . median operative blood loss was 1,300 ml ( range , 100 ml-60 units ) . the splenic artery was ligated initially in 16 patients ( 34.8 % ) but did not correlate with blood loss or operating time . the median splenic weight was 2,030 grams ( range , 1500-5320 gm ) . the postoperative complication rate was 39.1 per cent ( 21 complications in 18 patients ) . this included infection in 10 patients , bleeding in six patients . six patients required reoperation ( bleeding , 4 ; abscess , 1 ; small bowel obstruction , 1 patient ) . the 30-day operative mortality was 19.6 per cent ( 9 patients ) . excluding operative deaths , 35 patients were available for follow-up evaluation . twenty-nine patients had improvement in parameters for which splenectomy was indicated . six patients had no change in their course after splenectomy . these findings indicate that many patients with massive splenomegaly benefit from splenectomy , however , the procedure is associated with a high risk for postoperative morbidity and mortality . 
pancreas transplantation . a new program . sixteen pancreatico-duodenal transplants were performed on 15 insulin-dependent diabetics , aged 25-46 , during a 20-month period beginning may 1 , 1988 . fourteen patients received a combined cadaveric pancreas/renal transplant with bladder drainage . one patient received a second pancreas transplant 24 hours after the first pancreas graft failed due to portal vein thrombosis . one patient received a pancreas graft 3 years after kidney transplantation . complications included five cases of hematuria , two bladder leaks , two wound infections , one cytomegalovirus pneumonia , three cases of graft pancreatitis , one pseudocyst , one urine reflux pancreatitis requiring conversion to pancreatico-enterostomy , and two late deaths . average time to discharge was 17 days following transplant , with 2.9 re-hospitalizations per patient and an average of 38 in-hospital days during the first 6-12 months . seventeen rejection episodes occurred in 12 patients , diagnosed by declining urine amylase and ph and/or finding of rejection on kidney biopsy . patient and kidney graft survival is 87 per cent . pancreas graft survival is 81 per cent ( 1-20 months follow-up ) . all patients are insulin-independent and normoglycemic . mean glycosylated hemoglobin concentration is 4.0 + / - 0.9 post-transplant vs. 7.5 + / - 0.6 pretransplant . mean serum creatinine is 1.4 + / - 0.7 mg/dl . a new program of pancreas transplantation can be successful in carefully selected diabetic patients , with special attention to avoidance of preservation injury to the pancreas during multiorgan donor procurement . combined pancreatic/renal transplantation is believed to be the therapeutic treatment of choice in type i diabetic patients who have impaired renal function and have no significant cardiovascular disease . 
ischemic colitis . an ever-changing spectrum ? ischemic colitis , or more properly colonic ischemia , became a clear clinical entity in the past 25 years . yet , early diagnosis of this disease with its various presentations remains a difficult task . a 10-year review at our hospital identified 38 patients with colonic ischemia for comparison with the authors ' previous experience and with data from the literature . several important factors emerge : ( 1 ) twice as many cases occurred after operations ( 34 % in this series vs. 16 % in the past ) , probably because fewer and fewer spontaneous cases were hospitalized . ( 2 ) sixteen patients required operative intervention for colonic ischemia with a mortality of 62 per cent , while those treated nonoperatively had a mortality of 14 per cent . seven of eight postoperative patients who required a second operative procedure for their colonic ischemia died . a high clinical suspicion is necessary in the postoperative patient , as colonic ischemia appears to be more severe among these patients . moreover , the high incidence of associated cardiovascular disease indicates that early diagnosis , as well as monitoring of the " at-risk " patient , is needed for improvement in survival to occur . new monitoring methods , such as tonometry , may help accomplish this goal . 
bacterial phagocytosis in obstructive jaundice . a microbiologic and electron microscopic analysis . reticuloendothelial system dysfunction has been suggested as an explanation for the increased susceptibility to infection in patients with obstructive jaundice . in the present study , the response of cholestatic rats to a bacterial challenge was investigated and the uptake of bacteria by their kupffer cells was examined with the electron microscope . rats underwent bile duct ligation ( bdl , n = 8 ) of sham celiotomy ( sc , n = 8 ) and were allowed to recover for 10 days . they were then injected with 10 ( 9 ) staphylococcus aureus iv and killed at intervals of 15 , 30 , 60 , and 180 minutes after injection . two from each group were killed at each interval . quantitative blood cultures were performed , and specimens of liver and lung were obtained for quantitative bacterial culture and processed for electron microscopy . bacteria were rapidly cleared from the bloodstream of sc animals but persisted in bdl rats . electron microscopy consistently demonstrated bacteria within kupffer cell phagocytic vesicles of both sc and bdl animals at each interval selected . there was no morphologic difference in these vesicles between the two groups . bacteremia persists in bdl rats subjected to a bacterial challenge despite rapid uptake of bacteria in apparently normal phagocytic vesicles . this study suggests a defect in intracellular killing of bacteria , an impairment of delivery of bacteria to re cells , or a combination of these factors . 
ileal pouch-anal anastomosis . the emory university experience . the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis has become a practical alternative to proctocolectomy for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and polyposis coli . to evaluate its success , the emory university affiliated hospital experience from february 1984 to march 1989 was retrospectively reviewed . there were a total of 50 patients identified ; 84 per cent had ulcerative colitis , and 16 per cent had polyposis coli ( familial polyposis and gardner 's syndrome ) . the majority of these patients underwent a two-stage operation , but one-third required a three-stage procedure due to difficulty in mucosal proctectomy or toxic megacolon . j-pouch construction was performed in 72 per cent of patients , s-pouch construction in 14 per cent , straight ileo-anal anastomosis in 8 per cent , and lateral isoperistaltic ileo-anal anastomosis in 6 per cent . of the 50 patients , 36 ( 72 % ) have had closure of the temporary ileostomy . fourteen patients have not had ileostomy closure due to change in diagnosis to crohn 's disease , operative complications , or ileostomy closure pending . the combined operative morbidity per patient for the ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and the closure of the ileostomy was 32 per cent . this included bowel obstruction , 16 per cent ; pelvic abscess , 6 per cent ; and ileo-anal separation , 4 per cent . follow-up on patients with ileostomy closure ranged from 6 months to 4 years ( mean , 1.3 years ) . stool frequency was 5.9 stools per 24 hours at 6 months and improved with time . during the follow-up period , all patients were eventually completely continent of stool during the day , and most became completely continent of stool at night . 
multilevel occlusive vascular disease presenting with gangrene . the medical records of all patients subjected to lower extremity amputations during a 3-year period were reviewed . it was shown that advanced age and the presence of multiple medical problems do not predispose to higher levels of limb loss . although diabetic patients more frequently undergo amputation because of sepsis than their nondiabetic counterparts , the diabetic state was not found to be associated with a greater likelihood of above knee ( ak ) procedures . prior arterial surgery was not shown to make ak amputation more likely , but it was disconcerting to note that limb salvage was not achieved in many individuals despite patent proximal inflow revascularization procedures . this initial study showed that several presumed risk factors were not predictors of amputation level . those patients requiring ak amputations had a greater frequency of combined segment ( aortoiliac and femoropopliteal ) occlusive disease than those who had successful amputations at more distal levels . a follow-up study of 41 consecutive patients presenting with tissue loss due to combined segment occlusive disease was performed . eighteen ( group i ) underwent inflow procedures only , while 23 ( group ii ) also underwent distal revascularization . the groups were similar with respect to age , risk factors , extent of tissue loss and sepsis . at 1 year 10 ( 56 % ) group i and only 3 ( 13 % ) group ii patients required major amputation ( p = 0.01 ) . distal bypass , in addition to an inflow procedure , is recommended for those who present with tissue loss due to multilevel arterial occlusion . 
erythrocyte sedimentation rate predicts early relapse and survival in early-stage hodgkin disease . the eortc lymphoma cooperative group . objective : to assess the value of an elevated ( greater than 30 mm/h ) westergren erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) for predicting early relapse and survival after therapy in patients with clinical stage i or ii hodgkin disease . interventions : we studied 772 patients with early-stage hodgkin disease who had participated in two separate multicenter clinical trials . both trials used modern field radiotherapy and , in some patients , multi-agent chemotherapy . main results : the esr patterns were based on pretherapy and post-therapy assessments : pattern 1 , always normal ( n = 261 ) ; pattern 2 , elevated before therapy but normal immediately after therapy ( n = 121 ) ; pattern 3 , elevated before therapy but normal within 3 months after therapy ( n = 89 ) ; pattern 4 , always elevated ( n = 48 ) ; pattern 5 , normal before therapy but oscillating between normal and elevated after therapy ( n = 150 ) ; pattern 6 , elevated before therapy but oscillating between normal and elevated after therapy ( n = 130 ) . by multivariate analysis , independent of whether or not patients received chemotherapy in the initial therapy protocol , esr patterns 4 , 5 , and 6 were shown to be the best predictors for early relapse and survival when patients were stratified according to the type of chemotherapy received and the number of involved nodal areas . patients with esr pattern 4 had a relative risk for death seven times that of patients with patterns 1 , 2 , or 3 . early relapse was the second most important factor predicting death , irrespective of esr ; patients with early relapse and esr patterns 1 , 2 , or 3 had a relative risk for death of 4.5 , and those with early relapse and esr patterns 4 , 5 , or 6 had a relative risk for death of 15 . whether or not chemotherapy was given initially did not change the relative risk , which shows that esr , not initial therapy , was the predictor for early relapse and death due to hodgkin disease . conclusion : an unexplained elevated esr after therapy , especially after modern radiotherapy , independent of other factors , strongly suggest the presence of aggressive and resistant hodgkin disease . an elevated esr is predictive of early relapse and poor prognosis ; its presence justifies early aggressive therapy . 
aids enteropathy : occult enteric infections and duodenal mucosal alterations in chronic diarrhea objective : to investigate occult enteric infections and morphologic changes in the small intestine in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and chronic diarrhea of undefined cause . design : case-control study . setting : referral-based clinic and hospital in tertiary care center . patients : twenty-two patients with advanced hiv infection ( 19 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ aids ] , 3 with aids-related complex ) with chronic diarrhea , selected because of previously negative stool evaluations for bacterial or parasitic pathogens , were compared with 13 patients with advanced hiv infection ( 9 with aids , 4 with aids-related complex ) without diarrhea by analysis of endoscopic biopsies using light and electron microscopy , viral culture , and morphometric studies . both groups were convenience samples and had at least 7 months follow-up . measurements and main results : eleven of twenty-two patients with hiv infection and chronic diarrhea but only 1 of 13 patients without diarrhea showed occult enteric pathogens ( that is , undetected by routine studies ) after extensive evaluation of duodenal and colorectal biopsies . mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and microsporidia were the most common occult agents in study patients with diarrhea ( 5 each ) . patients with diarrhea and occult enteric infections had greater weight loss ( mean , 14.3 kg compared with 6.2 kg ; p less than 0.05 ) and shorter survival ( 1 of 11 compared with 8 of 11 still alive ; p less than 0.004 ) than those with diarrhea but no identified pathogens ( defined as " aids enteropathy " ) . duodenal morphometry showed decreased villus-to-crypt ratios because of villus atrophy and crypt elongation in hiv-infected patients both with and without diarrhea compared with normal controls ( p less than 0.001 for each ) . all three groups showed comparable frequencies of epithelial mitoses . conclusions : further endoscopic biopsy evaluation of patients with aids who had unexplained chronic diarrhea showed an occult infectious cause in half of the cases . however , altered villus and crypt architecture in advanced hiv infection was independent of the presence of diarrhea or enteric infection and therefore did not correlate with aids enteropathy . subnormal epithelial proliferation in response to injury could be a factor , but the underlying cause of the architectural changes remains obscure . we suggest that t-cell dysfunction may play a role . 
increased sympathetic outflow in cirrhosis and ascites : direct evidence from intraneural recordings . objective : to determine if central sympathetic outflow is increased in patients with cirrhosis and ascites . patients : eleven patients with cirrhosis and ascites , 8 patients with cirrhosis but without ascites , and 7 age-matched and 8 young healthy volunteers . methods : with subjects supine , direct microneurographic recordings of efferent post-ganglionic muscle sympathetic nerve activity were obtained from the peroneal nerve , and sympathetic burst frequency was compared with subjects ' blood pressure , heart rate , sodium excretion , catecholamines , and plasma renin activity . all patients with cirrhosis were studied at least 5 days after withdrawal from all medications and after 7 days of a 20 mmol/d sodium , 1-l fluid-restricted diet . age-matched volunteers were studied after 7 days of 20 mmol/d sodium intake and young healthy volunteers after 7 days of 150 mmol/d sodium intake . results : sympathetic nerve activity in ascitic patients ( 65 + / - 15 bursts/min ; mean + / - sd ) was markedly increased , whether compared with patients with cirrhosis but without ascites ( 34 + / - 16 bursts/min ; p less than 0.001 ) , age-matched healthy volunteers on similar sodium intake ( 27 + / - 22 bursts/min ; p less than 0.001 ) , or young healthy subjects ( 21 + / - 10 bursts/min ; p less than 0.001 ) . the frequency of muscle sympathetic nerve discharge was directly related to plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations , plasma renin activity , and heart rate , all of which were increased in those patients with cirrhosis and ascites , and inversely related to 24-hour urinary sodium excretion , the fractional excretion of sodium , and subjects ' pulse pressures . sympathetic nerve activity fell from 78 to 6 bursts/min in one patient after liver transplantation . conclusions : this study provides the first direct evidence that elevated plasma norepinephrine concentrations in patients with cirrhosis and ascites are due to increased central sympathetic outflow . sympathetic nerve activity is not increased in patients with cirrhosis but without ascites . because there were direct positive correlations of sympathetic nerve activity with plasma norepinephrine concentrations , plasma epinephrine concentrations , plasma renin activity , and heart rate , the increase in central sympathetic outflow in patients with cirrhosis and ascites appears generalized and not restricted to muscle nerves . the anti-natriuretic effects of parallel increases in renal and muscle sympathetic nerve activity could account for the inverse correlation between muscle sympathetic nerve activity and sodium excretion . 
do life events or depression exacerbate inflammatory bowel disease ? a prospective study . objective : to determine whether depressed mood or life events are associated with an exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease . design : a prospective study of a consecutive sample of patients with relapsing inflammatory bowel disease , followed by monthly questionnaires and periodic office visits . setting : a referral-based gastroenterology clinic at a medical school . patients : a consecutive sample of 32 patients with inflammatory bowel disease who had had at least one relapse in a 2-year period after entry into the study . measurements and main results : the social readjustment rating scale ( measuring life events ) , the beck depression inventory ( a visual analog scale for depressed mood ) and an inventory of intestinal symptoms were completed monthly by each subject with a 78 % rate of compliance . a mean of 2.2 exacerbations was seen per subject during the study period . life events were not temporally associated with changes in intestinal symptoms . significant associations were found between intestinal symptoms and the two mood scales ( p less than 0.05 for each ) , but no directionality in symptom occurrence could be detected in a time-lagged analysis . the results were similar when the months preceding exacerbations of inflammatory bowel disease were analyzed separately . conclusions : although these findings suggest that mood changed concurrently with exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease , no evidence indicated that stressful life events or depressed mood precipitated exacerbations in this study group . 
the acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome [ published erratum appears in ann intern med 1991 jun 1 ; 114 ( 11 ) :993 ] objective : to characterize an unusual mode of presentation of systemic lupus erythematosus : acute and severe pancytopenia related to reactive hemophagocytosis . design : retrospective case series . setting : two general community hospitals in hong kong . patients : six patients presenting with a reactive hemophagocytic syndrome , identified over a 3.5 year period , diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus according to the criteria of the american rheumatism association . results : in addition to severe pancytopenia and marrow hemophagocytosis , other characteristic features were fever , hypocomplementemia , high antinuclear antibody titer , and cutaneous and visceral vasculitis . there was no evidence of an underlying infection . the pancytopenia responded dramatically to treatment with steroids . conclusion : recognition of the acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome and distinction from an infection-associated hemophagocytic syndrome is important because it responds well to steroid therapy . the evaluation of patients presenting with a hemophagocytic syndrome should include serologic tests for systemic lupus erythematosus . 
surgical complications with the cochlear multiple-channel intracochlear implant : experience at hannover and melbourne . the surgical complications for the first 153 multiple-channel cochlear implant operations carried out at the medizinische hochschule in hannover and the first 100 operations at the university of melbourne clinic , the royal victorian eye and ear hospital , are presented . in the hannover experience the major complications were wound breakdown , wound infection , electrode tie erosion through the external auditory canal , electrode slippage , a persistent increase in tinnitus , and facial nerve stimulation . the incidence of wound breakdown requiring removal of the package was 0.6 % in hannover and 1.0 % in melbourne . the complications for the operation at both clinics were at acceptable levels . it was considered that wound breakdown requiring implant removal could be kept to a minimum by making a generous incision and suturing the flap without tension . 
granulomatous sialadenitis . granulomatous inflammation in salivary tissues is most often a response to liberated ductal contents , particularly mucin , in various degrees of obstructive sialadenopathy . far less often is a granulomatous sialadenitis the result of specific infective granulomas or systemic granuloma-forming diseases . in these instances , the salivary parenchymal involvement is usually secondary to disease localization in regional lymph nodes . 
laryngeal dystonia : a series with botulinum toxin therapy . laryngeal dystonia is a syndrome characterized by action-induced , involuntary spasms of the laryngeal muscles . most patients have involvement of the adductor laryngeal muscles producing uncontrolled spasms during phonation , and a " strain-strangle " speech pattern commonly termed " spastic dysphonia . " other patients have involvement of the abductor muscles producing " whispering dysphonia . " rare patients have paradoxical vocal cord motion during respiration with adductor spasms on inspiration . over the past 5 years we have used botulinum toxin ( botox ) to treat more than 200 patients with laryngeal dystonia . this group includes patients with adductor involvement ( phonatory dystonia , recurrent laryngeal nerve section failure , respiratory dystonia ) and those with abductor involvement ( whispering dystonia ) . patients received benefit within 24 to 72 hours , with sustained improvement for 2 to 9 months with an average of 4 months . patients improved to an average of 90 % of normal function . clinically significant adverse effects included extended breathy dysphonia and mild choking on fluids . botox has become our treatment of choice for dystonic conditions of the larynx . 
surgical treatment of laryngeal web with mucosa graft . surgical treatment of laryngeal webbing varies with the extent and site of the web . an extensive one seems to be best treated by laryngofissure and skin or mucosa transplantation . recent experiences with four cases of thick glottal webbing indicated that a mucosa graft was better for the voice result than a skin graft . for success in the airway and voice results , the salient points in surgery include 1 ) precise midline thyrotomy , 2 ) shaping of the vocal cord under fiberoptic control , and 3 ) mucosa grafting with the combined use of a pliable stent or fibrin glue for fixation . 
mastectomy following preoperative chemotherapy . strict operative criteria control operative morbidity . the surgical morbidity associated with aggressive preoperative chemotherapy in 106 patients with advanced primary breast cancer who had chemotherapy followed by mastectomy was examined . these patients were compared with a group of 91 consecutive patients who had mastectomy without preoperative chemotherapy . strict operative criteria were used to determine the timing of mastectomy following chemotherapy . wound infection rates were no different in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone groups ( 7 % versus 4 % ; p = 0.62 ) . the incidence of wound necrosis was similar ( 11 % versus 6 % ; p = 0.29 ) . seroma formation was decreased significantly in the preoperative chemotherapy group compared to the mastectomy-alone group ( 15 % versus 28 % ; p = 0.04 ) . intensive preoperative chemotherapy did not delay the reinstitution of postoperative treatment ( 30 % versus 20 % ; p = 0.27 ) . however , when delay in instituting postoperative chemotherapy was more than 30 days , there was a significant decrease in overall survival rate ( p = 0.04 ) . this study provides evidence that intensive preoperative chemotherapy and mastectomy can be performed without increased morbidity . furthermore it is important to institute systemic chemotherapy within 30 days of mastectomy to achieve maximum survival . 
clinical outcome of seriously ill surgical patients with intra-abdominal infection depends on both physiologic ( apache ii score ) and immunologic ( dth score ) alterations . the delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) response and the apache ii score in 118 patients with surgical infections were measured prospectively and related to outcome . logistic regression analysis generated the equation : [ formula : see text ] . the risk assessment as calculated by this model was compared to that using the apache ii system alone in a separate group of 354 patients . there was an improvement in the predictive capacity of the apache ii + dth equation compared to apache ii alone , as shown by a better fit of expected and observed deaths , an improved goodman-kruskal g statistic , and a larger area under the receiver operating characteristic curve . it is concluded that the dth response ( a broad marker of immunocompetence ) is an independent prognostic factor in surgical patients and can be used in combination with the apache ii score ( a measure of acute physiology ) to estimate better the outcome of surgical patients . 
the role of calcium ions and calcium channel entry blockers in experimental ischemia-reperfusion-induced liver injury . verapamil administered before treatment , but not after treatment , had a beneficial effect on a 90-minute warm ischemia-reperfusion rat liver injury model . the possible activation of proteases converting the xanthine dehydrogenase to xanthine oxidase , the significant mitochondrial calcium loading during the ischemic period , and the potentiation of calcium and oxygen-derived free radicals to promote injury to mitochondria are mechanisms supported by this study , based on both histologic observations and on the pattern of enzyme leak after the acute ischemic event . 
transvaginal approach for repair of rectovaginal fistulae complicating crohn 's disease . the management of rectovaginal fistulae complicating crohn 's disease is difficult and often unsatisfactory . between december 1983 and november 1988 , 13 patients with crohn 's disease underwent repair of rectovaginal fistulae via a transvaginal approach . all patients had a diverting intestinal stoma either as part of the initial step in the staged management of intractable perianal disease or concurrent with the repair of the rectovaginal fistula . each of the patients had low or mid septal fistulae ; high fistulae generally are treated transabdominally and are not the focus of this discussion . fistulae were eradicated in 12 of the 13 women and did not recur during the follow-up period , which averaged 50 months ( range , 9 to 68 months ) . the only treatment failure was a patient who had a markedly diseased colon from the cecum to the rectum and a very low-lying fistula . it is concluded that a modified transvaginal approach is an effective method for repair of rectovaginal fistulae secondary to crohn 's disease . 
outcome of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . a prospective study . a prospective study was performed to investigate the outcome and complications of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . twenty-nine pregnancies occurred in 22 patients . there were 12 abortions , two spontaneous and 10 induced . fifteen women had 17 live-born neonates . neonatal complications included nine premature deliveries , two cases of intrauterine growth retardation , and one of treacher collins syndrome . obstetric complications included threatened abortion ( two ) , placenta previa ( two ) , and preeclampsia ( three ) . cesarean sections were necessary in five patients . there was no maternal or neonatal mortality . thirteen episodes of systemic lupus erythematosus relapses were detected by incidents of increasing proteinuria ( six ) , arthritis ( four ) , and vasculitic rash ( two ) . there were no statistical differences in changes in hemoglobin level , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , albumin level , antinuclear antibody titer , or c3 or c4 level between the patients who relapsed and those who did not . pregnancy could induce a flare of systemic lupus erythematosus in previously normal patients or patients with previously inactive disease . the overall neonatal and maternal survival was good , even in patients who presented during pregnancy . spontaneous fetal loss was low ( 2/29 [ 6.9 % ] ) ; both cases occurred in mothers with inactive lupus . 
deleterious effects of criminal victimization on women 's health and medical utilization . the long-term consequences of criminal victimization on physical health were examined among 390 adult women ( 74 nonvictims and 316 victims of crime ) . data included health status self-ratings and objective service utilization . findings indicated that severely victimized women , compared with nonvictims , reported more distress and less well-being , made physician visits twice as frequently in the index year , and had outpatient costs that were 2.5 times greater . criminal victimization severity was the most powerful predictor of physician visits and outpatient costs . utilization data across 5 years preceding and following crime were obtained from 15 rape victims , 26 physical assault victims , and 27 noncontact crime victims and were compared with five continuous years of utilization among 26 nonvictims . victims ' physician visits increased 15 % to 24 % during the year of the crime compared with less than 2 % change among nonvictims . we conclude that these long-term deleterious effects suggest that criminally victimized women 's needs for medical treatment transcend the traditional focus on emergency care and forensic evaluation . 
a severe multisystem reaction to sulindac . we present a case of a severe reaction to sulindac . a 30-year-old woman with quiescent systemic lupus erythematosus received sulindac for nonspecific migrating chest pain . an initial course of therapy produced an unrecognized sensitization to the drug with a febrile illness and rash . readministration of the drug caused an anaphylactoid reaction as well as evidence of cardiovascular , hepatic , pulmonary , and hematologic dysfunction . the patient 's illness had evidence of types i , ii , and iii hypersensitivity reactions . 
the origin of epidermal melanocytes . implications for the histogenesis of nevi and melanomas . among the most venerable concepts in dermatopathology is unna 's 19th century notion of abtropfung , ie , that melanocytes drop off from the epidermis to the dermis during the histogenesis of melanocytic tumors . paradoxically , however , unna 's basic premise of an epidermal origin for melanocytes has been seriously questioned for over 40 years , based on experimental evidence favoring a neural crest origin for melanocytes . recent work has strengthened the evidence for a neural crest origin of epidermal melanocytes , and it has been suggested that the concept of abtropfung be replaced by the concept of hochsteigerung . the concept of hochsteigerung holds that melanocytes migrate up from the dermis into the epidermis-not only in normal development , but also during normal tissue maintenance . it now seems likely that the precursor of melanocytes , in both normal and abnormal differentiation , may not be a melanoblast ( a primitive cell committed to melanocytic differentiation ) but rather a pluripotential cell . although axon-investing schwann cells have been the traditional focus as the closest relative of the epidermal melanocyte , recent studies suggest that another nerve sheath cell , the perineural cell , might be a better candidate . these concepts have profound implications for the histogenesis of melanocytic nevi and melanomas . 
mucocelelike tumor of the breast associated with atypical ductal hyperplasia or mucinous carcinoma . a clinicopathologic study of seven cases . we studied seven patients with mucocelelike tumors of the breast , known to be benign lesions that may be confused with mucinous carcinomas of the breast . all patients had a palpable mass . microscopically , the most striking feature was the cystic character of the lesion . the epithelial lining of the cysts was usually flat or cuboidal to low columnar , and mucin pools frequently appeared near the ruptured cysts . three mucocelelike tumors contained a microscopic focus of mucinous carcinoma . the other tumors had areas of atypical ductal hyperplasia containing abundant intraluminal mucinous materials . the mucin was composed predominantly of neutral and nonsulfated acid mucins whose character was identical to that of those in mucinous carcinoma . because all mucocelelike tumors in our series were associated with either atypical ductal hyperplasia or carcinoma and because some mucocelelike tumors may indeed be early mucinous carcinomas of the breast , we recommend examination of the entire specimen and careful clinical follow-up . 
reference ranges for lymphocyte subsets . a comparison of standard vs rapid whole-blood lysis techniques . reference ranges for lymphocyte subsets may vary with processing techniques , monoclonal reagents , or analytic methods . we compared reference ranges obtained for t - and b-lymphocyte subsets by means of standard manual whole-blood lysis with a wash step vs a rapid , no-wash whole-blood lysis system . both techniques demonstrated reference ranges similar to those in previous literature reports . the ranges established with standard and rapid lysis were similar when antibodies directed to the same cluster designation were used . although slight statistical differences in relative percentages of cd2 and cd3 lymphocytes were observed , these differences were probably not clinically significant . these data indicate that the rapid technique provides a standardized method for enumerating t and b lymphocytes in peripheral blood . 
parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response in experimental acute pancreatitis . to determine changes in parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response caused by acute pancreatitis before the development of systemic toxic conditions , experimental acute pancreatitis was induced in rats with a choline-deficient , ethionine-supplemented diet . after 7 days , the rats were weighed and bled , and one kidney was assayed for 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity . several manifestations of pancreatitis were observed in rats given the diet : weight loss ( from 29.6 to 26.3 g vs that for control rats , from 29 to 52.8 g ) and lower dietary intake ( 15.5 vs 47 g per rat per 7 days ) . serum amylase levels fell from 1794 to 350 u/l in rats given the choline-deficient , ethionine-supplemented diet compared with levels of 1800 to 2100 u/l in control rats . the pancreases of rats given the choline-deficient , ethionine-supplemented diet showed degeneration , necrosis , and hemorrhaging . serum levels of calcium , phosphorus , chloride , and parathyroid hormone did not change significantly throughout the experiment . renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity was higher than in control rats ( 8.9 + / - 0.8 vs 7.6 + / - 0.6 fmol/mg of kidney per minute ) . acute pancreatitis in this experimental animal model does not alter serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone or reduce target organ responsiveness to the hormone . 
pneumonia complicating abdominal sepsis . an independent risk factor for mortality . nosocomial pneumonia ( np ) is associated with a significant mortality , 66 % in a previous retrospective study of np complicating intra-abdominal sepsis ( ias ) . we prospectively compared the outcome of np complicating ias with that of recurrent ias ( r-ias ) in the absence of np . data were collected prospectively on 300 patients with ias ; 34 patients who presented with pneumonia were excluded from the analysis ( 44 % mortality ) . one hundred seventy-one patients with no np and no r-ias ( group 1 ) had a hospital mortality of 20 % ( 34 patients ) ; 36 without np in whom r-ias developed ( group 2 ) had a 17 % mortality ( six patients ) ; and 47 with np but no r-ias ( group 3 ) had a 53 % mortality ( 25 patients ) . finally , 12 patients who had both np and r-ias suffered a 75 % mortality ( nine patients ) . we examined the relationships among the following putative risk factors and mortality : apache ( acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ) ii score ( at initial presentation with ias ) , the need for mechanical ventilatory assistance following initial treatment for peritonitis , steroid requirement , generalized peritonitis vs abscess , and the need for surgical as opposed to percutaneous treatment . using mortality as the dependent variable , group 2 vs 3 as the explanatory variable , and the risk factors as confounders , logistic regression analysis indicated that the group difference was significant after controlling for confounders . we conclude that np complicating ias is an independent risk factor associated with a significant mortality compared with r-ias . these data challenge the notion that death in ias is usually due to recurrent or persistent intra-abdominal infection . 
diagnosis and treatment of cytomegalovirus disease in transplant patients based on gastrointestinal tract manifestations . infection due to cytomegalovirus is a substantial cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients . in particular , cytomegalovirus infection has been associated with a significant detrimental effect on patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation . we are evaluating a new antiviral agent , ganciclovir 9 - [ 1,3-dihydroxy-2-2 propoxymethyl ] guanine ( dhpg ) , used in solid-organ transplant recipients who developed life-threatening cytomegalovirus infections . between march 1 , 1987 , and june 30 , 1989 , we treated 93 solid-organ transplant patients who developed tissue-invasive cytomegalovirus disease . from this group of patients we have identified 14 patients with primary gastrointestinal cytomegalovirus disease who received treatment with dhpg . tissue diagnosis was made by endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract ( 11 patients ) or colonoscopy ( three patients ) . invasive cytomegalovirus disease was identified prior to severe complications of the gastrointestinal tract in all but one patient , who suffered colonic perforation prior to treatment with dhpg and subsequently died of bacterial sepsis . while 13 of the 14 patients improved after treatment with dhpg , four patients required additional treatments for recurrent cytomegalovirus disease and recovered . no dhpg toxicity was observed . we believe treatment with dhpg is indicated in this patient population , but that further studies are indicated to fully define the impact of this recommendation on both patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation . 
macrophage antigen presentation and interleukin 1 production after cecal ligation and puncture in c3h/hen and c3h/hej mice . following cecal ligation and puncture with a 25-gauge needle , endotoxin-sensitive c3h/hen mice have a 45 % mortality compared with no mortality in endotoxin-resistant c2h/hej mice . macrophage production of interleukin 1 and antigen presentation were studied in these two strains of mice following cecal ligation and puncture at 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , and 24 hours and at 2 , 4 , 6 , and 8 days . splenic macrophages were cultured with a t-helper cell clone ( d10.g4 .1 ) , and antigen presentation and interleukin 1 production were measured by d10.g4 .1 proliferation . macrophage antigen presentation by c2h/hej mice was markedly increased compared with that in c3h/hen mice at all times after cecal ligation and puncture , most strikingly at 2 days ( 185m740 cpm for c3h/hej mice vs 30,300 for c2h/hen mice ) . macrophage interleukin 1 production was significantly increased in c3h/hej mice vs c3h/hen mice at all times after cecal ligation and puncture ( except at 2 days ) and was maximal at 8 days ( 25,000 cpm for c3h/hej mice vs 5190 for c3h/hen mice ) . these data suggest that the differences in mortality after cecal ligation and puncture between these two strains of mice may relate to a supranormal response of macrophages of c3h/hej mice or to an inadequate response of macrophages of c3h/hen mice . 
anatomic , metabolic , neuropsychological , and molecular genetic studies of three pairs of identical twins discordant for dementia of the alzheimer 's type . three pairs of twins , each with proved monozygosity , were shown to be discordant for dementia of the alzheimer 's type and to have remained discordant for periods of 8 to 11 years . dementia of the alzheimer 's type was demonstrated by history ; serial clinical examinations ; serial measurements of cerebral glucose utilization using positron emission tomography and of cerebral ventricular volumes and of rates of change of volumes using quantitative computed tomography ; and by serial neuropsychological tests . the results of each of these measures showed no evidence of clinical abnormality in any unaffected twin . dna markers from the proximal long arm of chromosome 21 did not distinguish between the affected and the unaffected member of any pair of identical twins . family pedigrees were negative for alzheimer 's disease . the results suggest that environmental or other nongenetic factors contribute to alzheimer 's disease in discordant monozygotic twins , or that some cases arise by a postzygotic somatic mutation . 
intravenous immunoglobulin treatment in patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy . clinical and laboratory characteristics associated with improvement . of 52 patients fulfilling the criteria of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy , 20 ( 38 % ) did not improve after intravenous immunoglobulin treatment , two ( 4 % ) had a short-lasting improvement and subsequent infusions had no effect , nine ( 17 % ) reached a spontaneously or therapeutically induced complete remission , and 21 patients ( 40 % ) needed intermittent infusions to maintain improvement . all patients who improved initially had symptoms that significantly interfered with life-style . after treatment , 90 % of these patients were independent in their daily activities . significantly associated with improvement were disease duration of less than 1 year , progression of weakness until treatment , absence of discrepancy in weakness between arms and legs , areflexia of the arms , and slowed nerve conduction velocity of the motor median nerve . the probability of improvement if all these features are present in 93 % . 
anterior femoral cutaneous nerve injury following femoral artery reconstructive surgery . two cases are presented exhibiting symptoms and signs of bilateral anterior femoral cutaneous nerve injury , clinically sparing femoral nerve branches to the saphenous nerve and quadriceps muscles . this occurred following surgical dissection in the femoral triangles associated with femoral artery reconstructive surgery . anterior femoral cutaneous nerve injury should be considered when anterior medial thigh pain and numbness occur following aortofemoral bypass graft surgery and other types of femoral artery reconstructive surgery . 
infection with hiv as a risk factor for adverse obstetrical outcome . we carried out a case-control study to investigate the role of sexually transmitted diseases ( stds ) , including infection with hiv , as risk factors for adverse outcome of pregnancy . overall , 1507 women were enrolled within 24 h of delivery . cases ( n = 796 ) were mothers of low-birthweight infants ( less than 2500 g ) or of stillborns . low-birthweight infants were divided into preterms ( n = 373 ) and neonates small for gestational age ( n = 234 ) . stillborns were separated into intrauterine fetal deaths ( n = 120 ) , and intrapartum fetal deaths ( n = 69 ) . controls were selected from mothers delivering a live baby of greater than or equal to 2500 g ( n = 711 ) . the maternal hiv seroprevalence in the control group was 3.1 % . prematurity was associated with maternal hiv antibody [ 8.6 % seropositive ; adjusted odds ratio ( or ) 2.1 ; 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) 1.1-4 .0 ] , as was being born small for gestational age ( 7.7 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.3 ; 95 % ci 1.2-4 .2 ) . in mothers who delivered a stillborn baby , both intrauterine fetal death ( 11.7 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.7 ; 95 % ci 1.3-5 .5 ) and intrapartum fetal death ( 11.6 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.9 ; 95 % ci 1.3-6 .5 ) were independently associated with hiv seropositivity in the mother . maternal syphilis was confirmed as an important risk factor for intrauterine fetal death ( 14.3 % positive ; adjusted or 4.8 ; 95 % ci 2.4-9 .5 ) . no significant association was found between other stds , including gonococcal and chlamydial infection , and adverse obstetrical outcome . these results suggest an association between maternal hiv infection and adverse obstetrical outcome , defined as low birthweight and stillbirth . 
prognostic value of reduced heart rate variability after myocardial infarction : clinical evaluation of a new analysis method . the relation between heart rate variability , measured from standard 24 hour electrocardiogram recordings in patients convalescent after a myocardial infarction , and the occurrence of sudden death and spontaneous , symptomatic , sustained ventricular tachycardia were assessed in a consecutive series of 177 patients admitted with acute myocardial infarction and surviving to 7 days . in addition to the analysis of heart rate variability , the occurrence of non-sustained arrhythmias on 24 hour electrocardiographic monitoring , and the results of clinical assessment , signal averaged electrocardiography and ejection fraction were analysed and were related to outcome . during a median of 16 months of follow up ( range 10-30 months ) there were 17 end point events ( 11 ( 6.2 % ) sudden deaths ) and six ( 3.4 % ) episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia . an index of the width of the frequency distribution curve for the duration of individual rr intervals was used to measure heart rate variability . this mean ( sd ) index was significantly smaller in those with end point events ( 16.8 ( 8.0 ) ) than in those without events ( 29.0 ( 11.2 ) ) . the relative risk of the occurrence of an end point event in those with a heart rate variability index less than 25 was 7.0 . multivariate analysis showed that of all the variables examined a reduced heart rate variability index was the single most powerful predictor of end point events . measurement of heart rate variability by this simple , automated , operator-independent method provided useful information on the arrhythmic propensity in patients convalescent after myocardial infarction . 
direct measurement of skeletal muscle fatigue in patients with chronic heart failure . skeletal muscle function was measured as force production and fatigue in both the quadriceps ( a large locomotive muscle ) and adductor pollicis ( a small intrinsic hand muscle ) in five healthy volunteers , five patients with mild chronic heart failure , and five patients with severe chronic heart failure . the quadriceps of patients with chronic heart failure had a reduced muscle cross sectional area , a reduced maximum isometric force production , and an increased tendency to fatigue . isometric force production and fatigue of the adductor pollicis , however , were not significantly different between the three groups under control conditions . but during circulatory occlusion fatigue in the adductor pollicis increased more in the patients with severe chronic heart failure . these differing findings in quadriceps and adductor pollicis suggest that skeletal muscle atrophy and reduced isometric force production are not a necessary consequence of chronic heart failure per se , because they were only present in the large locomotive muscle . the normal values for muscle fatigue observed in adductor pollicis in patients with chronic heart failure imply that skeletal muscle blood flow must increase normally during muscle activation when only a small muscle mass is used . these results are not compatible with the concept of a generalised impairment of normal vasodilatation within active skeletal muscle . in contrast , activation of a large muscle , such as quadriceps , results in the rapid onset of fatigue in patients with severe chronic heart failure . this fatigue may be related to the inability of the cardiovascular system to provide the required blood flow for the activation of a large muscle mass . 
lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum : an unusual intraoperative finding . lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum was an incidental finding in a man of 45 undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting for unstable angina . he was not overweight and did not have any rhythm disturbances . the diagnosis was made on frozen section . 
holter monitoring of ventricular arrhythmias in a randomised , controlled study of intravenous streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction . the occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias attributed to streptokinase treatment in acute myocardial infarction is not well defined . holter monitoring was performed for 24 hours in 81 patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction randomised in a ratio of 2:1 to intravenous streptokinase 1.5 x 10 ( 6 ) iu ( n = 55 ) or placebo infusion ( n = 26 ) 6.7 hours ( mean ) after the onset of symptoms . no episodes of ventricular fibrillation were recorded . for the whole 24 hour period and during the first three hours after the start of treatment the incidence and frequency of ventricular arrhythmias were similar in the patients randomised to streptokinase and to placebo . but when the results in patients randomised " early " after the onset of symptoms of suspected acute myocardial infarction were analysed separately the frequency of abnormal complexes , pairs , runs , and repetitive arrhythmias seemed to be higher in patients allocated to streptokinase . this may reflect arrhythmias associated with reperfusion . 
dermatology and the human gene map . chromosomal localization has been established for many genetic traits . gene mapping may lead to the identification of disease genes , an understanding of pathogenesis , and the development of rational therapy , as well as facilitating antenatal diagnosis and genetic counselling . ' the new genetics ' is therefore of great interest to the clinician . unfortunately the complex technology and unfamiliar vocabulary of molecular biology often deter non-specialists from keeping abreast of these developments . this account explains the principles of gene mapping , discusses its relevance to dermatologists , and lists the established loci of dermatologically important genes . 
the t ( 1 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) results in consistent fusion of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences in acute lymphoblastic leukemias . the t ( 1 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) chromosomal translocation is observed cytogenetically in 25 % of children with pre-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) and is associated with an adverse treatment outcome . the t ( 1 ; 19 ) juxtaposes the e2a gene from chromosome 19 with the pbx1 gene on chromosome 1 , leading to the production of fusion transcripts and resultant chimeric proteins that contain the transcriptional-activating motif of e2a and the dna-binding homeodomain of pbx1 . to investigate the molecular nature of e2a/pbx1 fusion in patients with t ( 1 ; 19 ) all we used an rna-based polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) procedure to amplify a portion of the chimeric transcript . we detected e2a/pbx1 fusion transcripts in cells from 97 % ( 37 of 38 ) of cases in which the t ( 1 ; 19 ) had been observed cytogenetically . molecular evidence of e2a/pbx1 fusion transcripts was also observed in a patient in whom a t ( 1 ; 19 ) was not detected cytogenetically and in one patient with subclinical levels of minimal residual disease before overt clinical relapse . in all pcr-positive cases the junction of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences occurred at precisely the same location as demonstrated by hybridization of pcr products with a fusion site-specific detection oligonucleotide . these findings demonstrate the consistent fusion of e2a and pbx1 coding sequences resulting from t ( 1 ; 19 ) and suggest that site-specific fusion of e2a and pbx1 is an important pathogenic event in t ( 1 ; 19 ) all . 
interaction of two different disorders in the beta-globin gene cluster associated with an increased hemoglobin f production : a novel deletion type of g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thalassemia and a delta zero-hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin determinant . we report two different disorders of the beta-globin gene cluster segregating in a belgian family : a novel deletion that results in g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thalassemia ( thal ) and a heterocellular hereditary persistence of foetal hemoglobin of the swiss type linked to a delta degree-thal gene ( delta degree-hpfh ) . heterozygosity for the heterocellular hpfh brings about a moderate ( 3.4 % to 8.24 % ) increase of hemoglobin ( hb ) f having a g gamma/a gamma ratio of 4:1 , whereas carriers of the g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thal deletion show in their peripheral blood a considerably higher ( 15 % ) percentage of hb f. both defects interact in the compound heterozygotes for g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thal and delta zero-hpfh producing a further increase ( up to 24 % ) of fetal hb consisting entirely of g gamma chains . molecular characterization of the g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thal by means of southern analysis showed that the deletion spans about 50 kb , removing the 3 ' end of the a gamma-gene , the psi beta - , delta - , and beta-genes . a number of possible mechanisms leading to the overproduction of hb f in hpfh and g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thal will be discussed . 
terminal cancer care and patients ' preference for place of death : a prospective study . objective -- to assess the preference of terminally ill patients with cancer for their place of final care . design -- prospective study of randomly selected patients with cancer from hospital and the community who were expected to die within a year . patients expected to live less than two months were interviewed at two week intervals ; otherwise patients were interviewed monthly . their main carer was interviewed three months after the patient 's death . setting -- district general hospital , hospices , and patients ' homes . main outcome measure -- stated preferred place of final care ; actual place of death ; reason for final hospital admission for those in hospital ; community care provision required for home care . results -- of 98 patients approached , 84 ( 86 % ) agreed to be interviewed , of whom 70 ( 83 % ) died during the study and 59 ( 84 % ) stated a preferred place of final care : 34 ( 58 % ) wished to die at home given existing circumstances , 12 ( 20 % ) in hospital , 12 ( 20 % ) in a hospice , and one ( 2 % ) elsewhere . their own home was the preferred place of care for 17 ( 94 % ) of the patients who died there , whereas of the 32 patients who died in hospital 22 ( 69 % ) had stated a preference to die elsewhere . had circumstances been more favourable 67 % ( 41 ) of patients would have preferred to die at home , 16 % ( 10 ) in hospital , and 15 % ( 9 ) in hospice . conclusion -- with a limited increase in community care 50 % more patients with cancer could be supported to die at home , as they and their carers would prefer . 
perinatal mortality rates in isolated general practitioner maternity units objective -- to determine the perinatal mortality rate among normally formed , singleton babies with birth weights greater than or equal to 2500 g in bath health district based on the intended place of delivery at the time of onset of labour or at the time of diagnosis of intrauterine death . design -- the numbers of live births and stillbirths were collected monthly returns from the maternity units concerned . deaths of infants aged less than or equal to 1 week were collected in the same returns . the intended place of delivery was confirmed at the monthly perinatal mortality meeting , during which maternal and fetal factors were discussed . setting -- a rural health district of 400,000 population where one third of all deliveries occurred in seven isolated general practitioner maternity units , 8 % in the integrated general practitioner unit , and the remainder in the consultant unit . subjects -- all babies of women whose deliveries were booked in the district before the onset of labour or the diagnosis of intrauterine death , excluding twins , babies with lethal congenital malformations , and those less than 2500 g. main outcome measures -- outcome of all deliveries and parity of mothers . results -- 14,415 deliveries were analysed . the perinatal mortality rate was 2.8 / 1000 births in the consultant unit ( 7950 deliveries ) , 4.8 in the isolated general practitioner units ( 5237 deliveries ) , and zero in the integrated general practitioner unit ( 1228 deliveries ) . perinatal deaths attributable to asphyxia were more common in the isolated general practitioner units ( 1.5 per 1000 ) than the consultant unit ( 0.6 per 1000 ) . the perinatal mortality rate among babies born to nulliparous women was 3.2 / 1000 births in the consultant unit and 5.7 in the isolated general practitioner units ; for those born to multigravid women it was 2.4 and 4.2 respectively . conclusions -- the outcome of delivery was not influenced by parity . both antenatal and intrapartum care were responsible for the higher perinatal mortality rate in the isolated general practitioner units . the integrated unit , which shared midwifery staff with the consultant unit , seemed to work well . analysis by intended place of delivery at the time of onset of labour or diagnosis of intrauterine death suggested that the care given in isolated units needs to be improved , perhaps by better training of general practitioners and consultant supervision of antenatal care . 
trial of brief intermittent neuroleptic prophylaxis for selected schizophrenic outpatients : clinical and social outcome at two years . objective -- to evaluate a novel approach to the prophylaxis of schizophrenic relapse characterised by administration of brief courses of neuroleptic for the earliest non-psychotic signs of relapse ( prodromal symptoms ) . design -- two year follow up of subjects randomised , double blind , to receive either active ( control group ) or placebo ( intermittent group ) depot neuroleptic medication . both groups received brief courses of oral neuroleptic when prodromal symptoms or relapse occurred . setting -- psychiatric outpatient department , charing cross hospital , london . subjects -- 54 stable patients in remission who met the american psychiatric association 's dsm-iii criteria for schizophrenia on the basis of case notes . main outcome measures -- survival without relapse , survival without hospitalisation , point prevalence of extrapyramidal side effects and tardive dyskinesia , structured assessment of social functioning ( social adjustment scale ii ) , and frequency of prodromal symptoms . results -- of 19 relapses recorded over two years , 10 ( 53 % ) were preceded by non-psychotic prodromal signs . survival rates for both relapse and hospitalisation were worse with intermittent treatment than continuous treatment over the two year follow up : 92 % of controls and only 54 % of patients given intermittent treatment survived the two year period without hospitalisation . prolonged or frequent relapses as well as episodes of prodromal symptoms were more frequent with intermittent treatment . lower scores for extrapyramidal side effects were recorded in the intermittent treatment group , but periodic assessments of social functioning failed to show any social advantages from this . conclusion -- the findings are at variance with a previous report of one year follow up in this cohort and attest to the superiority of continuous depot neuroleptic prophylaxis in preventing both psychotic and neurotic or dysphoric morbidity in schizophrenia . 
six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening . objective -- to determine the value of screening for bacteriuria in infants with special emphasis on the natural course of untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria , renal growth , and renal damage . design -- prospective six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening in an unselected infant population . setting -- paediatric outpatient clinic . patients -- 50 infants ( 14 girls , 36 boys ) with bacteriuria on screening verified by suprapubic aspiration from an unselected population of 3581 infants in a defined area of gothenburg . interventions -- children with asymptomatic bacteriuria and normal findings on initial urography were untreated , although other infections were treated . main outcome measures -- culture of urine and determination of c reactive protein concentration every six weeks for the first six months after diagnosis , every three months from six months to two years , and every six months between two and three years ; thereafter yearly urine culture . evaluation of renal concentrating capacity with a desmopressin test ; radiological examination , including first and follow up urography and micturition cystourethrography without antibiotic cover ; and measurement of renal parenchymal thickness and renal surface area . results -- of the original 50 infants , 37 ( 12 girls , 25 boys ) were followed up for at least six years . two infants developed pyelonephritis within two weeks after bacteriuria was diagnosed ; the others remained free of symptoms . 45 infants were untreated ; the bacteriuria cleared spontaneously in 36 and in response to antibiotics given for infections in the respiratory tract in eight . recurrences of bacteriuria were observed in 10 of the 50 children , of whom one had pyelonephritis . no child had more than one recurrence . at follow up urography in 36 of the 50 children ( 9 girls , 27 boys ) after a median of 32 months no child had developed renal damage . first samples tested for renal concentrating capacity showed significantly higher values than those from a reference population ( mean sd score 0.50 , 95 % confidence interval 0.21 to 0.79 ; p less than 0.001 ) , but the last samples showed no significant difference ( mean sd score 0.08 , -0.24 to 0.40 ; p greater than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- mass screening for bacteriuria in infancy results primarily in detection of innocent bacteriuric episodes and is not recommended . 
prevalence of acute mountain sickness in the swiss alps . objective -- to assess the prevalence of symptoms and signs of acute mountain sickness of the swiss alps . design -- a study using an interview and clinical examination in a representative population of mountaineers . positive symptoms and signs were assigned scores to quantify the severity of acute mountain sickness . setting -- four huts in the swiss alps at 2850 m , 3050 m , 3650 m , and 4559 m. subjects -- 466 climbers , mostly recreational : 47 at 2850 m , 128 at 3050 m , 82 at 3650 , and 209 at 4559 m. results -- in all , 117 of the subjects were entirely free of symptoms and clinical signs of acute mountain sickness ; 191 had one or two symptoms and signs ; and 158 had more than two . those with more than two symptoms and signs were defined as suffering from acute mountain sickness . at 4559 m 11 climbers presented with high altitude pulmonary oedema or cerebral oedema , or both . men and women were equally affected . the prevalence of acute mountain sickness correlated with altitude : it was 9 % at 2850 m , 13 % at 3050 m , 34 % at 3650 m , and 53 % at 4559 m. the most frequent symptoms and signs were insomnia , headache , peripheral oedema , and scanty pulmonary rales . severe headache , vomiting , dizziness , tachypnoea , and pronounced pulmonary rales were associated with other symptoms and signs and therefore characteristic of acute mountain sickness . conclusion -- acute mountain sickness is not an uncommon disease at moderately high altitude -- that is , above 2800 m. severe headache , vomiting , dizziness , tachypnoea , and pronounced pulmonary rales indicate severe acute mountain sickness , and subjects who suffer these should immediately descend to lower altitudes . 
upper tract tumours following cystectomy for bladder cancer . is routine intravenous urography worthwhile ? the incidence and presentation of upper tract tumours were studied in 180 patients who had previously undergone cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . intravenous urography was performed routinely 3 months after cystectomy , 1 year later and at 3-yearly intervals thereafter . ten patients developed upper tract tumours ; 1 presented with loin pain and the remainder with haematuria . six patients underwent nephroureterectomy and 5 of them lived for at least 4 years ; 4 were inoperable and only 1 survived longer than 6 months . in this series , all patients with upper tract tumours presented with symptoms and routine intravenous urography failed to detect any asymptomatic lesions . routine radiological assessment of the upper tracts to detect tumours is not justified following cystectomy . 
transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract : prognostic variables and post-operative recurrences . in a retrospective study of 198 patients with transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract , post-operative recurrences developed as contralateral tumours in 2.5 % , in the ureteric stump after conservative resection in 19 % and in the bladder in 36.4 % . upper tract recurrences resembled the primary tumours in terms of grade and stage ; of the bladder tumours , 89 % were similar in grade and 72 % similar in stage to the primary tumours . age , sex , grade and stage had no effect on the number of bladder recurrences , but ureteric tumours had significantly more recurrences than renal pelvicaliceal tumours . sex , bladder recurrences and site of primary tumours did not influence survival . thus grade and stage of the primary tumour were the only predictive variables of the final outcome . 
urodynamic morbidity and dysuria prophylaxis . a group of 324 patients received prophylactic treatment with either sodium bicarbonate , potassium citrate or a glucose placebo following urodynamic studies . urine was screened for infection both before and after testing and the incidence of dysuria assessed by postal questionnaire ; 63 % of patients experienced some degree of dysuria and this was severe and prolonged in 6.3 % , the majority of whom were male . neither sodium bicarbonate nor potassium citrate was any more effective in preventing dysuria than placebo . the presence of severe prolonged dysuria was not associated with a urinary tract infection or with any particular urodynamic diagnosis . 
can histological assessment predict the outcome in interstitial cystitis ? in a retrospective study we compared the outcome of 39 patients with interstitial cystitis to the histological findings at initial diagnostic bladder biopsy . the degree of inflammation and fibrosis and the mast cell counts were assessed on each biopsy . the prognostic relevance of the clinical features of age , duration of symptoms , frequency , nocturia , pain and bladder capacity was assessed . the study showed no statistical correlation between the severity of histological findings at diagnosis and the eventual outcome of the disease . over 50 % of patients with severe histological abnormalities responded to conservative treatment . although the majority of patients with mild pathological changes responded to conservative treatment , some did require surgical intervention . the clinical features of pain , nocturia and bladder capacity showed significant differences between the 2 patient groups . however , the former 2 features are subject to many variables and the latter probably has too wide a range to be useful as a prognostic indicator . only the response of patients to conservative treatment will indicate those who are not being helped and who may eventually require surgical treatment . 
clinical significance of the " palpable mass " in patients with muscle-infiltrating bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy . between 1976 and 1985 , 132 patients with t2/t3/t4a bladder cancer underwent cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy ( 46 gy : 67 patients ; 20 gy : 65 patients ) . after a median time of 41 months , 62 patients were alive ; 51 had died from recurrent bladder cancer and 19 from intercurrent disease without recurrence of their malignancy . distant metastases developed in 40 patients , accompanied in 5 cases by local recurrence . local recurrence was the first sign of relapse in 11 patients . in 3 patients the localisation of the relapse remained unknown . the corrected 5-year survival rate was 60 % . t category and a palpable bladder tumour were independent pre-treatment prognostic factors in a cox regression analysis , together with the interval between initial diagnosis and cystectomy . the presence of a palpable tumour before the start of treatment was associated with a particularly poor prognosis in t3/t4a tumours , whereas the survival of patients with non-palpable t3/t4a tumours was similar to that of patients with t2 bladder cancer . another important prognostic factor was post-irradiation stage reduction ( no residual muscle infiltration in the cystectomy specimen ) . significantly more patients with non-palpable bladder tumours experienced post-radiation stage reduction than did those with a palpable tumour . however , the prognostic value of stage reduction was statistically significant only in patients with palpable bladder tumours . 
vasal injuries during childhood and their effect on subsequent fertility . thirty subfertile males had testicular obstruction following inguinal or pelvic surgery in childhood . all 13 patients with bilateral obstruction were azoospermic and 6 had developed antibodies to spermatozoa . of 17 patients with unilateral obstruction , 11 had oligozoospermia and 6 had normal sperm counts : all had high titres of antibodies to spermatozoa ( a significant difference from the men with bilateral obstruction ) . this indicates that male infertility can result from vasal or epididymal injuries in childhood due either to the obstruction itself or its immunological consequences . following corrective surgery and prednisolone treatment for the antibodies , where appropriate , 5/17 patients with unilateral blocks and 1/11 with bilateral blocks successfully produced pregnancies . 
external ear resonance in children with otitis media with effusion . a middle ear effusion has been shown , in kemar , to increase the height of the resonant peak of the external auditory canal by 6 db spl . it has also been shown that the hearing impairment due to otitis media with effusion is related to the volume of middle ear fluid . therefore , it was hypothesized that measurement of the height of the resonant peak of the external auditory canal could be used as a method of assessing the magnitude of any hearing impairment due to otitis media with effusion . 182 ears from 182 children aged 3-12 ( mean 6.3 ) years were studied . pure-tone audiometry and impedance tympanometry were performed , and the acoustics of the external auditory canal were measured using the rastronics cc1-10 frequency response analyser . the mean height of the resonant peak ( 17.9 db spl ) of children with a type a tympanogram was significantly different from the mean value ( 23.6 db spl ) of those with a type b tympanogram . there was a significant correlation between the height of the resonant peak and the speech frequency average of the pure-tone thresholds . the sensitivity and specificity of using the height of the resonant peak to detect hearing impairments in different age groups were calculated and compared with the sensitivity and specificity of tympanometry . the test did not provide the same degree of sensitivity as tympanometry but was more specific . the additional advantages of the test are that it is quick , taking less than 1 min per ear , and is well tolerated by children in whom there was a 99 % compliance . 
physical and psychosocial consequences of total laryngectomy . the incidence and severity of respiratory symptoms after total laryngectomy and their influence on daily living were studied in 59 laryngectomized patients . daily sputum production was the principal complaint of these patients ( 98 % ) , followed by coughing ( 64 % ) and the need for frequent forced expectoration ( more than 5 times a day ) in order to clear the airway ( 57 % ) . frequent stoma cleaning ( more than 5 times a day ) was required by 37 % of the patients . significant correlation was found between respiratory symptoms , voice rehabilitation and several aspects of daily living , including fatigue , sleep problems , social contacts and psychological distress . these findings indicate that respiratory symptoms after total laryngectomy are both frequent and troublesome . the development of effective methods for minimizing and/or preventing such respiratory problems would contribute significantly to improving the quality of life of laryngectomized patients . 
chronic otitis media : the significance of nasal obstruction . the nasal airway resistance of 15 patients with unilateral chronic otitis media and 15 controls was measured by anterior active rhinomanometry . airway resistance was measured on each side before and after decongestion to differentiate resistance due to structural abnormality from that due to mucosal swelling . the nasal resistance was significantly greater ( p less than 0.01 ) on the side of the affected ear in patients with unilateral chronic otitis media before decongestion , but following decongestion the difference was not significant . nasal obstruction is a significant determinant in unilateral chronic otitis media and although septal displacement may be the underlying cause , the major component of the obstruction appears to be due to an associated mucosal oedema . 
local antibiotic delivery in the treatment of bone and joint infections . antibiotics can be delivered locally via an implantable pump to treat bone and joint infections . this is a completely closed system , and the pump is refilled percutaneously at intervals based on its flow rate . the use of this method is described in three specific clinical situations : ( 1 ) resistant osteomyelitis ( patients with persistent infections despite previous therapy ) , ( 2 ) acutely infected arthroplasties ( symptomatic for less than six weeks ) , and ( 3 ) chronically infected arthroplasties ( patients infected more than six weeks ) . in all three clinical situations , hospitalization time was shortened , and high local and low systemic levels of antibiotic were obtained . there was only one incident of side effects to the antibiotic used . this method has been successful in obtaining long-term suppression of infection in 30 of 42 patients with resistant osteomyelitis , 30 of 37 patients with acutely infected arthroplasties , and seven of ten patients with chronically infected arthroplasties . the complication unique to this method of therapy is pump-site and catheter-site infections . this occurred in three patients with recalcitrant osteomyelitis and three patients with acutely infected arthroplasties . 
spontaneous necrosis in osteosarcoma . the percentage of necrosis in a primary osteosarcoma after the patient has received preoperative chemotherapy is prognostic and is usually used to select subsequent chemotherapy . however , the percentage of necrosis that occurs spontaneously , without preoperative chemotherapy , has not been adequately studied . the examination of histologic macrosections of 76 osteosarcomas from patients who had not received preoperative treatment and of 20 patients who had received preoperative chemotherapy revealed a significant difference in the percentage of necrosis . there was minimal spontaneous necrosis , but necrosis after preoperative chemotherapy was usually extensive . the larger the tumor , the greater the percentage of spontaneous necrosis ; however , size did not correlate with the percentage of necrosis with preoperative chemotherapy . survival among those patients who did not receive preoperative treatment correlated with the size and percentage of necrosis . necrosis in an osteosarcoma in a patient who has received preoperative chemotherapy can be considered the result of chemotherapy and not a spontaneous event . 
periprosthetic chronic inflammation characterized through the measurement of superoxide anion production by synovial-derived macrophages . periprosthetic macrophages were isolated from the synovium of primary and revision arthroplasty patients . inflammatory activity was determined by the level of superoxide ( o2 - ) production de novo and in response to phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) stimulation . nonstimulated primary arthroplasty-derived macrophages produced 2.54 + / - 2.04 pmoles of o2 - / minute/10 ( 5 ) cells . when identical reaction tubes were stimulated with pma , o2 - levels increased to 5.76 + / - 3.77 pmol of o2 - / minute/10 ( 5 ) cells . nonstimulated revision arthroplasty-derived macrophages produced 3.26 + / - 2.02 pmol of o2 - / minute/10 ( 5 ) cells during this ten-minute time period . when identical reaction tubes were stimulated with pma , o2 - levels increased to 3.98 + / - 2.52 pmol of o2 - / minute/10 ( 5 ) cells . the difference in the ratio of o2 - production in response to stimulation between primary and revision groups was statistically significant . the observation of a chronic moderate level of activation and the lack of responsiveness to a potent stimulator suggests that macrophage inflammatory activity is down-regulated in periprosthetic synovium . 
irritant and sensitizing potential of copper , mercury and tin salts in experimental contact stomatitis of rat oral mucosa . hgcl2 , cuso4 , sncl2 , sncl4 or sodium lauryl sulphate ( sls ) were openly applied to rat oral mucosa for 1 min , followed 6 h later by histologic examination of the tissue response . granulocytes were the predominant inflammatory cells and no lymphocytic infiltration could be seen with any of the substances tested . irritant threshold levels were defined histologically for each of the substances . cuso4 was found to be non-irritant at all concentrations . the addition of non-irritant concentrations of sls lowered the threshold levels for hgcl2 and sncl2 , but cuso4/sls was non-irritant at all concentrations tested . preapplication to the mucosa of sls at non-irritant concentrations gave results with hgcl2 , sncl2 and cuso4 similar to those with sls added to the metal salt solutions . lesions of allergic contact type could not be induced in the oral mucosa to any of the metal salt preparations . 
anorectal dysfunction in patients with urologic disturbance due to multiple sclerosis . anorectal function was evaluated in 11 patients with voiding dysfunction due to multiple sclerosis . in six patients with constipation , three also had symptoms of obstructed defecation and one patient was incontinent due to stercoral diarrhea . one patient was only fecal incontinent and one patient had obstructed defecation as the only symptom . three patients had no anorectal symptoms . anal manometry in the women compared with a control group revealed significant lower anal resting and squeeze pressures , although no significant difference of rectal sensation to distention with air was found . pudendal nerve terminal latencies were obtained in seven patients and were all normal . in four patients latency could not be demonstrated due to poor contraction of the sphincter on stimulation of the pudendal nerve . two of these patients were incontinent and two had both constipation and obstructed defecation . it is concluded that patients with voiding symptoms due to multiple sclerosis often reveal anorectal symptoms or motility disorders . although anal sphincter function is reduced , fecal incontinence is not prevalent in this group . the reason for this lies probably in the fact that many of the patients are constipated , thus securing fecal continence . 
the value of the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap in the treatment of complex perineal fistula . complex perineal fistula and persistent perineal sinus are difficult to treat . we describe our experience with wide excision of the diseased perineum using a combined abdominoperineal approach . ten patients were reconstructed by a rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap ( n = 7 ) , rectus abdominis muscle flap ( n = 2 ) , and omental graft ( n = 1 ) . primary healing was achieved in all cases . a median follow-up of 18 months ( range 6-54 months ) has shown no recurrence of perineal disease or associated abdominal incisional hernia . there were no perioperative deaths . we propose that the rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap is indicated if large amounts of perineal skin has to be sacrificed . when less skin is removed a repair with greater omentum or rectus muscle alone is adequate . the abdominoperineal approach together with filling the residual pelvic cavity with well-vascularized tissue allows definitive treatment to be carried out in one stage . 
a comparison between single and double dose intravenous timentin for the prophylaxis of wound infection in elective colorectal surgery . a prospective , randomized , single-blind , controlled clinical trial was undertaken to determine whether two doses of systemic timentin provided superior prophylaxis against postoperative sepsis in elective colorectal surgery compared with a single dose of the same antibiotic . timentin , a combination of ticarcillin and clavulanic acid was administered intravenously ( 3.1 g ) at the commencement of operation to all patients , and this was repeated after 2 hours in those patients randomized to receive a second dose . the wound infection rate was 11 percent in the 143 patients completing follow-up and receiving a single dose , and 13 percent in the 128 patients receiving two doses of timentin ( p greater than 0.05 ) . the rates of postoperative septicemia 3 vs. 4 percent and intra-abdominal abscess 5 vs. 8 percent were similar . multivariate analysis of the factors likely to affect postoperative would infection rate demonstrated an association with the type of hospital , public or private , wound infection rate 16 and 6 percent , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) , and the surgeon group defined by the number of patients contributed greater than 25 or less than 25 , wound infection rate 6 and 18 percent , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . we concluded that a single dose of intravenous timentin was as effective as two doses for prophylaxis against surgical infection and that the surgeon group and the hospital in which the operation took place were statistically significant predictors of postoperative wound infection . 
the ileosigmoid knot . the ileosigmoid knot ( isk ) is a rare cause of intestinal obstruction . unfamiliarity with the condition could have disastrous consequence at surgery . over the past 20 years , we have encountered seven cases . analyzing the data gathered from these , and on reviewing the literature , we found it possible to arrive at a preoperative diagnosis in two patients . four patients were women , two of whom developed the obstruction in the postpartum period . one of the males was found to have an inflamed meckel 's diverticulum included in the knotting . the symptoms and the clinical findings were nonspecific . the characteristic x-ray findings of a double closed loop obstruction , was seen in only three patients . resection of gangrenous bowel with anastomoses was feasible in four . unlike in other series , primary anastomosis of the large gut was undertaken . there were two deaths early in the series . guidelines to the management have been suggested . 
the role of fistulography in fistula-in-ano . report of five cases . a retrospective review of 27 patients undergoing anal fistulography is presented . the etiology of the 27 fistulas studied are as follows : cryptoglandular infection in 18 , ibd in 7 ( crohn 's 6 , cuc 1 ) , iatrogenic in 1 , and foreign body perforation in 1 . twenty-six fistulograms revealed either direct communication with the anus or rectum , or abscess cavities/tracts , or both . two fistulograms revealed no radiographic evidence of fistula ( one patient had two fistulograms ) . in 13 of the 27 patients ( 48 percent ) information obtained from the fistulograms revealed either unexpected pathology ( n = 7 ) or directly altered surgical management ( n = 6 ) . we conclude that anal fistulography in properly selected patients may add useful information for the definitive management of fistula-in-ano . 
chronic anal fissure . a new method of treatment by anoplasty . chronic anal fissure is a common condition usually treated by maximal anal dilatation or lateral subcutaneous sphincterotomy . the following method is based on a common surgical principal ; to widen a stenosed tube a longitudinal incision is made across the stenosed area and this is sutured transversely as in pyloroplasty . this method of anoplasty is simple and appears to have no resultant complications . further studies are necessary before its value can be established compared to the presently accepted methods of treatment . 
role of leukotriene c4 in mucosal damage caused by necrotizing agents and indomethacin in the rat stomach . intragastric ethanol stimulates mucosal formation of leukotriene c4 in the rat stomach . the present study demonstrates that the increase in leukotriene c4 formation begins within 30 seconds and is maximal within 5 minutes , closely paralleled by the appearance of hemorrhagic lesions . leukotriene c4 formation returns to prechallenge levels within 3 hours , although erosions still persist . intragastric 0.2 n naoh , acidified 100 mmol/l taurocholate , 25 % nacl , or 0.6 n hcl did not consistently increase leukotriene c4 formation despite severe mucosal injury . a number of sulfhydryl-containing or sulfhydryl-blocking agents as well as metals protected against mucosal damage and simultaneously prevented the stimulation of leukotriene c4 formation induced by ethanol . none of the agents increased and some virtually abolished mucosal formation of prostaglandin e2 , indicating that gastroprotection can occur completely independently of the endogenous prostaglandin system . the leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitor mk-886 markedly suppressed gastric leukotriene c4 formation but did not protect against damage caused by ethanol , naoh , nacl , or acidified taurocholate . oral indomethacin reduced the ex vivo formation of both prostaglandin e2 and , to a lesser extent , leukotriene c4 in the gastric mucosa , inducing a shift in the balance from protective prostaglandins to proulcerogenic leukotriene c4 . pretreatment with mk-886 , however , did not significantly diminish indomethacin-induced lesions . these data suggest that leukotriene c4 is not the exclusive mediator of gastric injury caused by necrotizing agents or indomethacin . on the other hand , certain protective compounds exhibit a striking parallelism between protection and inhibition of ethanol-induced leukotriene c4 formation , suggesting that they may affect a target crucial for both mucosal injury and stimulation of 5-lipoxygenase . 
omeprazole 20 mg three days a week and 10 mg daily in prevention of duodenal ulcer relapse . double-blind comparative trial . in a double-blind , parallel-group clinical trial of 195 patients with duodenal ulcers who after a short-term study had relief of pain and healed ulcers proved endoscopically , 65 were randomized to receive 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week ( once in the morning from friday to sunday ) , 64 to receive 10 mg omeprazole once daily in the morning , and 66 to receive placebo for up to 6 months . the patients underwent repeat endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric fundic mucosa ( qualitative assessment of argyrophilic cell population ) , assessment of symptoms , and laboratory screening with measurement of basal serum gastrin concentrations at 3 and 6 months or more often if indicated by recurrence of symptoms . at 3 months , endoscopically proved ulcer relapse occurred in 16 % receiving 20 mg omeprazole 3 days a week ; 21 % receiving 10 mg omeprazole daily ; and 50 % receiving placebo . at 6 months , corresponding rates were 23 % , 27 % , and 67 % with 95 % confidence intervals of difference between the placebo group and omeprazole groups of 28 % -60 % and 24 % -56 % ( p less than 0.00001 ) , respectively , and between omeprazole groups of -19 % -11 % ( ns ) . no major clinical or laboratory side effects were noted . thus both omeprazole regimens are effective and safe in preventing duodenal ulcer relapse . 
impaired sympathetic nerve function in the inflamed rat intestine . the effect of intestinal inflammation on norepinephrine release from the myenteric plexus in the trichinella spiralis-infected rat was assessed . longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparations were preincubated with [ 3h ] norepinephrine and release was evoked by electrical field stimulation and kcl administration . preincubation of preparations with desipramine or pretreatment of rats with 6-hydroxydopamine significantly suppressed the uptake and evoked release of [ 3h ] norepinephrine ; electrical field stimulation but not kcl-evoked release of [ 3h ] norepinephrine was sensitive to tetrodotoxin . these results confirm the presence of functioning sympathetic nerves in the preparations . t. spiralis infection was associated with significant suppression of both electrical field stimulation and kcl-evoked release of [ 3h ] norepinephrine on the sixth day postinfection , and the suppression persisted 100 days postinfection . no suppression of [ 3h ] norepinephrine release was seen in the worm-free and noninflamed ileum of infected rats . suppression of [ 3h ] norepinephrine release from the jejunum of infected rats was attenuated by treatment with betamethasone ( 3.0 mg/kg sc daily ) . these results are consistent with the hypothesis that intestinal inflammation suppresses the release of norepinephrine from the myenteric plexus in the trichinella-infected rat . 
expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules in the liver of patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection . virus-specific t-cell responses are believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of liver cell injury secondary to hepatitis b virus infection . in this study , liver biopsy specimens from patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection were analyzed for expression of two major pathways of adhesion used by cytotoxic t cells to interact with target cells . the lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 was found preferentially expressed on hepatocytes of patients with active hepatitis b virus replication , whereas the expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on hepatocytes seemed more closely related with inflammatory activity . adhesion molecules were also highly expressed on t lymphocytes found in areas of piecemeal and spotty necrosis , indicating the presence of antigen-specific " memory " t cells at the site of hepatocellular injury . this study suggests that the expression of the lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 on hepatocytes may be important for viral elimination . the coordinate expression of the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 may regulate inflammatory response and enhance viral antigen presentation to t cells . conversely , the absence of hepatocyte adhesion molecules might be a favorable factor for viral persistence . 
interferon alfa therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection . effects on hepatitis b virus dna in the liver . pretrial and posttrial liver biopsy samples from 124 adult patients who participated in two randomized , controlled trials of interferon alfa therapy for chronic hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection were analyzed to determine the effects of interferon on the replication of hbv in the liver . replicative forms of hbv dna were detected in the pretrial biopsy samples from all and posttrial biopsy samples from 74 % treated patients and 86 % controls . replicative forms of hbv dna were detected in the posttrial biopsy samples from all patients who remained positive for hepatitis b e antigen and hbv dna in the serum , in 77 % treated patients and 80 % controls who cleared hbv dna in the serum but who remained positive for hepatitis b e antigen , but in only 19 % treated patients and 40 % controls who cleared hbv dna as well as hepatitis b e antigen in the serum . serum alanine aminotransferase levels were significantly lower in patients whose posttrial biopsies did not contain replicative forms of hbv dna . in summary , we demonstrated that in most patients with chronic hbv infection treated with interferon alfa , serological response was associated with the disappearance of replicative forms of hbv dna in the liver . 
characterization of a rat pancreatic secretory protein associated with pancreatitis . a new protein was purified from the pancreatic juice of rats with acute pancreatitis . that protein , not detectable in control animals , was called " pancreatitis-associated protein . " it was first observed 6 hours after induction of experimental pancreatitis with taurocholate or cerulein , reached maximal levels of 45 micrograms/mg protein in zymogen granules and 1.8 micrograms/mg protein in pancreatic tissue during the acute phase ( 48 hours ) , and disappeared during recovery ( day 5 ) . it was never detected in spleen , liver , kidney , heart , or lung . the detection limit of the assay system was 12 ng/mg protein , so that pancreatitis-associated protein levels increased at least 100-fold in pancreatic tissue during the acute phase . the molecular weight ( 12,000 ) and isoelectric point ( 8.2 ) were determined by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis . subcellular fractionation and immunoelectron microscopy showed that the protein was synthesized on the rough endoplasmic reticulum and stored in zymogen granules before being secreted , similar to other pancreatic secretory proteins . immunoblotting and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed that the same protein was synthesized upon induction of pancreatitis by cerulein infusion , by retrograde injection of bile acids , or pancreatitis induced by pancreatic surgery . the pancreatitis-associated protein is therefore an acute-phase protein that differs from other proteins of that family because of its exocrine nature . 
ampullary hamartoma : endoscopic diagnosis and treatment . this study shows a patient who presented with intermittent biliary tract obstruction caused by ampullary hamartoma . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography showed a large ulcerated papilla and dilated biliary ducts . tissue diagnosis was established by a large particle biopsy obtained with a snare . the patient underwent a successful endoscopic sphincterotomy and has remained symptom free for 4 years . 
hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation . a newly identified condition . a newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described . in the affected family , at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax ; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life . three members of the family have been studied in detail . each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night . constipation was an associated symptom , in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation . clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance . the maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity . anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter . two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy ; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain . the hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes , consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis . in vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline , isoprenaline , carbachol , dimethylpiperazinium , and electrical-field stimulation . immunohistochemical studies for substance p , calcitonin gene-related peptide , galanin , neuropeptide y , and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue . a specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized . 
chronic care needs to be a higher priority . although acute care remains the focus of the u.s. health care delivery system , a shift is taking place toward chronic-illness mortality . developing effective chronic-disease management processes is tough in the context of today 's acute care orientation , according to william f. henry , president of foresight strategy associates , st. paul , mn . 
revision total knee arthroplasty for failed unicompartmental replacement . the results in nineteen patients ( twenty-one knees ) who had a failed unicompartmental knee replacement followed by a revision total knee arthroplasty were evaluated . there were twelve excellent , four good , one fair , and two poor results . the interval between the unicompartmental replacement and the revision total knee arthroplasty ranged from eight months to eight years . at the time of the revision , a major osseous defect was found in sixteen knees ( 76 per cent ) . the duration of follow-up after the revision ranged from two to ten years . at the most recent follow-up examination , radiographs revealed at least one radiolucent line in thirteen knees ( 62 per cent ) . the technical difficulties associated with the revision operation are evidence that unicondylar arthroplasty is not a conservative procedure that allows a total knee arthroplasty to be done easily later . the results also do not support the argument that a revision performed after failure of a unicondylar arthroplasty is less technically demanding than one performed after a failed primary total knee arthroplasty . 
the role of venous hypertension in the pathogenesis of legg-perthes disease . a clinical and experimental study . thirty-two patients in whom legg-perthes disease apparently involved only one hip were examined with venography , measurement of intraosseous and intra-articular pressures , arthrography , and dynamic triphasic bone-imaging with 99mtc methylene diphosphonate . the arterial flow of blood in the affected femoral head was slightly decreased , but the difference from that on the normal side was not statistically significant . however , there was marked disturbance of the venous drainage in the diseased hip , elevated intraosseous pressure in the affected femoral neck , and increased intra-articular pressure in the involved hip compared with the normal side . an animal model was then created in twenty immature dogs , venous drainage was obstructed , and intraosseous pressure of the femoral head and neck was elevated by injection of four milliliters of semiliquid silicone into the femoral neck . in eleven of the dogs , areas of avascular necrosis resembling those associated with legg-perthes disease developed in the femoral head . 
chronic rupture of the achilles tendon : a new technique of repair . a new operative technique is described for the treatment of patients who have a rupture of the achilles tendon . the large gap between the proximal and distal stumps of the achilles tendon in seven patients was bridged by use of the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus as the graft . at the most recent follow-up examination ( average follow-up , thirty-nine months ; range , two to six years ) , the result was excellent or good in six patients and fair in one . postoperatively , two patients needed an adjuvant procedure : one , a local rotation flap and the other , a split-thickness skin graft . both patients had excellent restoration of function . the patient who had a fair result had a persistent limp and residual discomfort . there were no re-ruptures . 
treatment of de quervain tenosynovitis . a prospective study of the results of injection of steroids and immobilization in a splint . in a prospective study of non-operative treatment of de quervain tenosynovitis , ninety-nine wrists of ninety-five consecutively seen patients who had this diagnosis had an injection of one milliliter of a 1 per cent lidocaine solution and one milliliter of a suspension containing forty milligrams of methylprednisolone acetate . twelve patients ( twelve wrists ) were lost to follow-up . of the remaining eighty-seven wrists , fifty-four ( 62 per cent ) had a satisfactory outcome at a mean of eighteen months ( minimum follow-up , twelve months ) . the duration of symptoms before treatment did not affect the outcome . the result in thirty-three wrists ( 38 per cent ) was considered unsatisfactory . thirty of these wrists were subsequently treated with operative release of the first dorsal compartment , and twenty-two ( 73 per cent ) of the thirty were found to have a separate compartment for the extensor pollicis brevis . the prevalence of a separate compartment is significantly higher than that in the general population , as shown in anatomical studies of cadavera . 
cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem component . a report of seven cases . seven patients had a cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem femoral component . four patients died in the operating room , and three patients were successfully resuscitated . when the three survivors were eventually discharged from the hospital , they had no known permanent cardiac , pulmonary , or neurological sequelae . factors that were common to all of the patients were advanced age , osteoporotic bone , a previously undisturbed intramedullary canal , and use of a long-stem femoral component and several batches of methylmethacrylate . hip arthroplasty with a long-stem femoral component is associated with substantial risk in these patients . excessive pressurization of cement should be avoided , and invasive hemodynamic monitoring should be used when the described conditions are present . 
reconstruction of the chronically insufficient anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament . the results of reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament as a free , autogenous , non-vascularized graft were retrospectively reviewed at our institution . eighty reconstructions in seventy-nine patients were evaluated after a minimum of two years . in forty-eight ( 60 per cent ) of the knees , the reconstruction was augmented with an extra-articular lateral sling of iliotibial band . the patients were evaluated with a physical examination , a kt-1000 arthrometer , radiographs , a subjective questionnaire , and a revision of the scale of the hospital for special surgery for rating ligaments . postoperatively , seventy-six ( 95 per cent ) of the eighty knees no longer gave way , and the pivot-shift test was negative in sixty-seven ( 84 per cent ) of the knees . the average score on the ligament-rating scale was 93 points . all of the patients who had clinical instability at the time of the most recent follow-up had associated ligamentous instability that had not been appreciated or addressed at the time of reconstruction . arthrometric evaluation revealed that the laxity differed by three millimeters or less from that of the untreated knee in sixty ( 76 per cent ) of the treated knees . in the patient who had bilateral reconstruction , the laxity was the same in both knees . seventeen patients , who had more than three millimeters of translation , also had additional related ligamentous instability , most commonly posterolateral instability and insufficiency of the medial collateral ligament . we think that major associated ligamentous instability predisposes the reconstruction to failure and should be corrected in conjunction with the reconstruction . 
prosthetic arthroplasty of the knee after resection of a sarcoma in the proximal end of the tibia . a report of sixteen cases . the results of a specific type of prosthetic reconstruction of the knee ( total replacement arthroplasty ) after resection of a sarcoma of the proximal part of the tibia in sixteen patients were retrospectively reviewed . the diagnosis was stage-iib osteogenic sarcoma in nine patients , stage-iib malignant fibrous histiocytoma in three patients , and stage-ib sarcoma of various types in four patients . the length of tibial resection ranged from 100 to 257 millimeters . of the eleven patients who were available for functional examination ( mean duration of follow-up , sixty-three months ) , three patients had an excellent result , seven had a good result , and one had a fair result . of the five patients who were not available for functional testing , one who was doing well was lost to follow-up at eighty months , one had died of metastases at sixteen months , and three had had a secondary amputation for infection or for loosening of the prosthesis . 
multicenter registry of angioplasty therapy of cardiogenic shock : initial and long-term survival . this retrospective multicenter study reviews the role of acute percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in the treatment of cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction to determine whether early reperfusion affects in-hospital and long-term survival . from 1982 to 1985 , 69 patients were treated with emergency angioplasty to attempt reperfusion of the infarct-related artery . balloon angioplasty was unsuccessful in 20 patients ( group 1 ) and successful in 49 patients ( group 2 ) . initial clinical and angiographic findings in the groups with unsuccessful and successful angioplasty were similar with respect to age ( 60.5 + / - 2.3 versus 57 + / - 1.8 years ) , infarct location ( 65 % versus 65 % anterior ) and gender ( 65 % versus 67 % male ) . hemodynamic variables in the two groups , including systolic blood pressure ( 68 + / - 4.3 versus 73 + / - 1.6 mm hg ) , left ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( 24.4 + / - 2.4 versus 27 + / - 1.0 mm hg ) and initial ejection fraction ( 28.5 + / - 4 % versus 32 + / - 2 % ) , were also similar . twenty-nine patients received thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase ; the overall rate of reperfusion was 34 % . group 1 patients had a short-term survival rate of 20 % , compared with 69 % in group 2 patients ( p less than 0.0005 ) . thirty-eight patients survived the hospital period and were followed up for 24 to 54 months ( mean 32.5 + / - 2.4 ) . five patients ( all in group 2 ) died during follow-up . the long-term incidence rate of congestive heart failure was 19 % , arrhythmia 21 % , need for repeat angioplasty 17 % and coronary artery bypass grafting 26 % . twenty-four month survival was significantly better in group 2 patients ( 54 % ) versus group 1 patients ( 11 % , p = 0.003 ) . 
reactivity of eccentric and concentric coronary stenoses in patients with chronic stable angina . dynamic coronary stenoses may be the cause of a variable angina threshold and rest angina in patients with chronic stable angina . it has been suggested that eccentric but not concentric coronary artery stenoses have the potential for dynamic changes of caliber in response to vasoactive stimuli . the vasomotor response of eccentric ( asymmetric narrowing ) and concentric ( symmetric narrowing ) coronary stenoses to ergonovine ( 20 micrograms intracoronary or 300 micrograms intravenous ) and isosorbide dinitrate ( 1 mg intracoronary ) was studied in 51 patients with chronic stable angina . diameter of reference segments ( angiographically normal segments proximal to the stenoses ) and that of eccentric ( n = 30 ) and concentric ( n = 35 ) coronary stenoses that ranged from 50 % to 90 % luminal diameter reduction were measured by computerized quantitative angiography before and after ergonovine and isosorbide dinitrate . ergonovine reduced stenosis diameter ( by greater than or equal to 10 % ) in 80 % of eccentric stenoses and 42 % of concentric stenoses ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean ( + / - sem ) diameter reduction with ergonovine was 19 + / - 3 % and 9.5 + / - 2 % for eccentric and concentric stenoses , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . isosorbide dinitrate increased coronary diameter ( by greater than or equal to 10 % ) in 70 % of eccentric and 43 % of concentric stenoses ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean diameter of eccentric stenoses increased from 1.15 + / - 0.05 to 1.35 + / - 0.06 mm after nitrate ( 18.6 + / - 2.5 % ) , whereas diameter of concentric stenoses increased from 1.05 + / - 0.05 to 1.14 + / - 0.05 mm ( 10 + / - 2.5 % ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . average dilation of reference segments with administration of isosorbide dinitrate and constriction with ergonovine were not significantly different in patients with concentric and eccentric stenoses . 
obstruction of mechanical heart valve prostheses : clinical aspects and surgical management . one hundred patients ( 32 male ) aged 5 months to 82 years ( median 32 years ) underwent 106 surgical procedures for 112 mechanical prosthetic valves obstructed by a thrombus ( n = 61 ) or pannus ( n = 7 ) , or both ( n = 44 ) , between january 1 , 1980 and december 31 , 1989 . the position of the obstructed prosthesis was aortic in 51 patients ( 48 % ) , mitral in 49 ( 46 % ) and both aortic and mitral in 6 ( 6 % ) . the types of obstructed prosthetic valves were bjork-shiley ( n = 51 ) , st. jude ( n = 41 ) and medtronic-hall ( n = 20 ) . the time interval between valve replacement and obstruction ranged from 6 weeks to 13 years ( median 4 years ) . of 63 % of patients in whom coagulation variables were available at the time of obstruction , 70 % were receiving inadequate anticoagulant therapy . in 63 % of the procedures the patient was in new york heart association functional class iv . two patients underwent preoperative thrombolysis with incomplete results . operative procedures included valve replacement ( n = 81 ) , valve declotting and excision of pannus ( n = 23 ) and aortic valve replacement and mitral valve declotting ( n = 2 ) . the early mortality rate was 12.3 % ( 13 patients ) , and there was no difference between surgery for mitral prostheses ( 12.2 % ) versus aortic prostheses ( 13.7 % ) . the perioperative mortality rate was 17.5 % ( 11 of 63 patients ) in patients in functional class iv and 4.7 % ( 2 of 43 patients ) in those in functional classes i to iii ( p less than 0.05 ) . for valve replacement , the mortality rate was 12 % ( 10 of 81 patients ) and for declotting of the prosthesis 13 % ( 3 of 23 patients ) . 
myocardial magnesium : relation to laboratory and clinical variables in patients undergoing cardiac surgery . magnesium concentration was measured in the right atrial appendage of 100 patients undergoing cardiac surgery and associations with serum and mononuclear blood cell magnesium , other laboratory values and patient clinical variables were studied . in addition , magnesium was measured in the right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall in 23 autopsy subjects to determine whether there was a proportional relation between right atrial appendage and left ventricular free wall magnesium . the mean left ventricular free wall/right atrial appendage magnesium ratio was 2.13 + / - 0.39 ( r = 0.67 , p = 0.0009 ) . in the group with cardiac surgery , the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated inversely with age ( r = -0.54 , p = 0.001 ) . the mean right atrial appendage magnesium concentration ( micrograms/g wet weight tissue ) was lower in patients with postoperative cardiac arrhythmia than in those without arrhythmia ( 103 + / - 13 versus 111 + / - 10 , p = 0.009 ) and in diabetic than in nondiabetic patients ( 103 + / - 13 versus 109 + / - 12 , p = 0.02 ) . the right atrial appendage magnesium concentration also tended to be lower in patients receiving potassium/magnesium-losing diuretics , although this difference did not achieve statistical significance ( 105 + / - 14 versus 109 + / - 11 , p = 0.16 ) . right atrial appendage magnesium concentration correlated positively with serum creatinine concentration ( r = 0.31 , p = 0.002 ) and negatively with serum calcium concentration ( r = -0.29 , p = 0.013 ) . serum magnesium did not correlate with right atrial appendage or mononuclear blood cell magnesium concentration or clinical variables . there was a statistically significant correlation between mononuclear blood cell and right atrial appendage magnesium concentrations in some subgroups of patients . 
stress echocardiography and the human factor : the importance of being expert . the aim of this study was to evaluate how the diagnostic accuracy of a stress echocardiographic procedure , such as a dipyridamole echocardiography test , depends on the specific experience of the physician interpreting the test . recordings of 50 consecutive dipyridamole echocardiographic tests were selected for the first part of the study . they were analyzed by 20 experienced echocardiographers with different backgrounds in stress echocardiography : 10 beginners ( less than 20 stress studies interpreted with trained staff ) and 10 experienced observers ( greater than or equal to 100 stress studies performed ) . diagnostic accuracy ( true positive + true negative/total number of tests ) versus the angiographic reference standard ( greater than 70 % coronary stenosis of at least one major coronary artery ) was 62 + / - 6 % for beginners and 85 + / - 3 % for experienced observers ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in the second part of the study , 10 observers ( 5 beginners and 5 experienced observers ) evaluated 2 different sets of 50 dipyridamole echocardiographic test studies before and after the training of the beginners . before training , the accuracy of beginners was lower than that of experienced observers ( 61 + / - 7 % versus 85 + / - 3 % ; p less than 0.001 ) . after training , the accuracy gap was closed ( 83 + / - 3 % versus 86 + / - 2 % ; p = ns ) . therefore , interpretation of stress echocardiographic tests by an echocardiographer without specific training severely underestimates the diagnostic potential of this technique . one hundred stress echocardiographic studies are more than adequate to build the individual learning curve and reach the plateau of diagnostic accuracy that the test can yield . 
silent ischemia after coronary angioplasty : evaluation of restenosis and extent of ischemia in asymptomatic patients by tomographic thallium-201 exercise imaging and comparison with symptomatic patients . one hundred sixteen patients were evaluated to determine the ability of single photon emission computed tomographic ( spect ) thallium-201 exercise and redistribution imaging to detect silent ischemia secondary to restenosis in asymptomatic patients after single and multiple vessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and the findings were compared with spect imaging detection of restenosis in symptomatic patients . the value of exercise electrocardiography ( ecg ) and the amount of ischemic myocardium in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients were determined . forty-one patients were asymptomatic after angioplasty ; 77 % of these had chest pain before angioplasty . seventy-five patients had chest pain after angioplasty ; 99 % of these had chest pain before angioplasty . restenosis occurred in 61 % of asymptomatic and 59 % of symptomatic patients and in 46 % of the vessels in both asymptomatic and symptomatic patients . sensitivity , specificity and accuracy for detection of restenosis by spect in individual patients were 96 % , 75 % and 88 % versus 91 % , 77 % and 85 % , respectively , in the asymptomatic versus symptomatic groups ( p = ns ) . sensitivity , specificity and accuracy for restenosis detection in individual vessels were 90 % , 89 % and 89 % versus 84 % , 77 % and 84 % , respectively , in the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups ( p = ns ) , with similar results for the three major arteries . sensitivity and accuracy of exercise ecg were significantly less than those of spect imaging for the patients with silent ( 40 % and 44 % ) and symptomatic ( 59 % and 64 % ) ischemia ( p less than 0.001 ) . restenosis of vessels in the patients with silent and symptomatic ischemia was associated with an equal amount and degree of severity of ischemic myocardium in the two groups . 
concealed entrainment as a guide for catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia in patients with prior myocardial infarction . fifteen consecutive patients with drug-refractory , recurrent , sustained , monomorphic ventricular tachycardia and a history of remote myocardial infarction underwent catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia . shocks of 100 to 300 j were delivered to sites at which pacing during ventricular tachycardia resulted in concealed entrainment , in which the ventricular tachycardia accelerated to the pacing rate , there was a long stimulus to qrs interval and there was no change in the configuration of the qrs complex during pacing at several rates compared with the configuration during ventricular tachycardia , thus identifying a zone of slow conduction in the reentrant circuit . concealed entrainment was demonstrated in nine ( 60 % ) of 15 patients , and the stimulus to qrs intervals were 90 to 400 ms. at sites of concealed entrainment , the endocardial activation time relative to the qrs complex during ventricular tachycardia ranged from -125 to +50 ms , the timing of the local electrogram relative to the qrs complex was the same during entrainment as during ventricular tachycardia and the pace map during sinus rhythm was discordant with that of the ventricular tachycardia in seven patients . in the six patients in whom a site of concealed entrainment could not be identified , the target site for ablation was selected on the basis of identification of an isolated mid-diastolic potential , activation mapping and pace mapping . the mean ( + / - sd ) cumulative number of joules delivered to the target site was 306 + / - 140 . a successful long-term clinical outcome was achieved in 9 of the 15 patients ( mean follow-up 20 + / - 7 months ) . the clinical success rate was the same whether the target site was selected on the basis of concealed entrainment ( five of nine , 56 % ) or on the basis of the other mapping techniques ( four of six , 67 % ) . in conclusion , the responses to pacing suggest that sites at which there is concealed entrainment may be located within a zone of slow conduction in the ventricular tachycardia reentry circuit , although not necessarily in an area critical for the maintenance of reentry . the long-term clinical efficacy of catheter ablation targeted to sites of concealed entrainment is about 60 % , similar to the results achieved when conventional mapping techniques are used . 
a randomized double-blind crossover comparison of four rate-responsive pacing modes . the aim of this study was to compare , both subjectively and objectively , four modern rate-responsive pacing modes in a double-blind crossover design . twenty-two patients , aged 18 to 81 years , had an activity-sensing dual chamber universal rate-responsive ( dddr ) pacemaker implanted for treatment of high grade atrioventricular block and chronotropic incompetence . they were randomly programmed to vvir ( ventricular demand rate-responsive ) , ddir ( dual chamber demand rate-responsive ) , ddd ( dual chamber universal ) or dddr ( dual chamber universal rate-responsive ) mode and assessed after 4 weeks of out-of-hospital activity . five patients , all with vvir pacing , requested early reprogramming . the dddr mode was preferred by 59 % of patients ; the vvir mode was the least acceptable mode in 73 % . perceived " general well-being , " exercise capacity , functional status and symptoms were significantly worse in the vvir than in dual rate-responsive modes . exercise treadmill time was longer in dddr mode ( p less than 0.01 ) , but similar in all other modes . during standardized daily activities , heart rate in vvir and ddir modes underresponded to mental stress . all rate-augmented modes overresponded to staircase descent , whereas the ddd mode significantly underresponded to staircase ascent . echocardiography revealed no difference in chamber dimensions , left ventricular fractional shortening or pulmonary artery pressure in any mode . cardiac output was greater at rest in the dual modes than in the vvir mode ( p = 0.006 ) but was similar at 120 beats/min . beat to beat variability of cardiac output was greatest in vvir mode ( p less than 0.0001 ) , with ddir showing greater variability than ddd or dddr modes ( p less than 0.05 ) . mitral regurgitation estimated by doppler color flow imaging was similar in all modes , but tricuspid regurgitation was significantly greater in vvir than in dual modes ( p less than 0.03 ) . subjects who preferred the dddr mode and those who found the vvir mode least acceptable had significantly greater increases in stroke volume when paced in the ddd mode than in the ventricular-inhibited ( vvi ) mode at rest ( 22 % ) when compared with subjects who preferred other modes ( 2 % , p = 0.03 ) . no other objective variable was predictive of subjective benefit from any rate-responsive pacing mode . thus , dual sensor rate-responsive pacing ( dddr ) is superior objectively and subjectively to single sensor ( vvir , ddir and ddd ) pacing and subjective benefit from dual chamber rate-augmented pacing is predictable echocardiographically . 
dissection of the aorta associated with congenital malformation of the aortic valve . the association of congenital aortic valve malformation and aortic dissection is analyzed . over a 30 year period , 186 patients with non-iatrogenic aortic dissection were studied at necropsy . the aortic valve was tricuspid in 170 ( 91.4 % ) , bicuspid in 14 ( 7.5 % ) and unicuspid in 2 ( 1.1 % ) . among the 16 patients with aortic dissection and a congenitally malformed valve , the age at death ranged from 17 to 82 years ( mean 52 ) and 13 ( 81 % ) were men . the entrance tear of the aortic dissection was located in the ascending aorta in all 16 patients with a malformed valve but in only 68 % of those with a tricuspid aortic valve . the aortic valve was stenotic in 6 of the 16 patients with a congenitally malformed valve . fatal rupture of the false channel occurred after acute ascending aortic dissection in each of the 11 patients ( none with healed dissection ) who did not have operative therapy for the dissection . two of the 16 patients with a malformed valve compared with no patient with a tricuspid aortic valve had aortic isthmic coarctation . histologic sections of aorta from 10 patients disclosed severe degeneration of the elastic fibers of the media in 9 patients . thus , a congenitally malformed aortic valve appears to be present at least 5 times more frequently in adults with than in those without aortic dissection , and in our patients the entrance tear was always in the ascending aorta , which usually had severe loss of elastic fibers in its media . 
effect of maintenance digoxin therapy on aerobic performance and exercise left ventricular function in mild to moderate heart failure due to coronary artery disease : a randomized , placebo-controlled , crossover trial . despite 200 years of use , the ability of digitalis glycosides to improve exercise capacity in patients with congestive heart failure remains controversial , partly because of imprecise end points and suboptimal study design . therefore , this question was examined in 10 ambulatory patients ( 8 men and 2 women ) aged 46 to 70 years ( mean 57.8 ) in sinus rhythm with mild to moderate chronic stable congestive heart failure due to coronary artery disease and systolic left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction 32 + / - 12 ) . all underwent maximal treadmill exercise with respiratory gas analysis and upright cycle ergometry with gated radionuclide angiography after 4 weeks of digoxin or placebo therapy , administered in a randomized double-blind crossover protocol . neither treadmill exercise duration ( 7.7 + / - 2.3 versus 7.3 + / - 2.7 min ) nor peak oxygen consumption ( 18.7 + / - 3.7 versus 18.4 + / - 5.4 ml/kg per min ) differed between digoxin and placebo regimens . however , the change in peak oxygen consumption induced by digoxin was inversely related to the peak oxygen consumption during placebo therapy ( r = -0.64 , p less than 0.05 ) . at maximal treadmill effort , heart rate ( 138 + / - 16 versus 141 + / - 21 beats/min ) , oxygen pulse ( 10.3 + / - 2.1 versus 9.9 + / - 2.2 ml/beat ) , ventilation ( 40.3 + / - 10.6 versus 42.0 + / - 10.8 liters/min ) and ventilatory equivalent ( 29.4 + / - 4.8 versus 31.5 + / - 6.8 ) did not differ between digoxin and placebo treatment , although systolic blood pressure was higher during digoxin therapy ( 163.0 + / - 23.1 versus 153.2 + / - 25.3 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) . 
treatment of recurrent ischemia after thrombolysis and successful reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction : effect on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function . to determine the effect of treatment of recurrent ischemia after reperfusion for acute myocardial infarction on in-hospital mortality and left ventricular function recovery and to identify patients at highest risk of serious consequences in the event of recurrent ischemia in this setting , 405 consecutively treated patients were studied retrospectively . all patients received intravenous thrombolytic therapy within 6 h of st segment elevation-documented infarction and had angiographic confirmation of their reperfusion status performed within 120 min of treatment . three hundred three patients had successful reperfusion with or without rescue angioplasty and had no recurrent ischemia ( group 1 ) , 74 patients had initially successful reperfusion but subsequent recurrent ischemia ( group 2 ) and 28 patients had failed reperfusion ( group 3 ) . the in-hospital mortality in groups 1 to 3 was 2.0 % , 14.9 % and 32.1 % , respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) and the change from baseline to prehospital discharge left ventricular ejection fraction was 1.2 + / - 9.3 % , -0.8 + / - 8.7 % and -4.3 + / - 5.3 % , respectively ( p = ns ) . within the recurrent ischemia group ( group 2 ) , multiple regression analysis found absence of cardiogenic shock at presentation ( p = 0.002 ) and successful treatment initiated within 90 min of recurrent ischemia ( p = 0.045 ) to be the only variables independently correlated with in-hospital survival . later successful reperfusion was not associated with improved hospital survival . the timing and success of treatment did not affect recovery of global or regional left ventricular function in the patients with paired angiographic studies . 
a paradigm for restenosis based on cell biology : clues for the development of new preventive therapies . angioplasty causes substantial injury to the coronary artery intima and media that is unrecognizable by angiography . on the basis of a substantial body of research in oncology and wound healing , it is hypothesized that restenosis is a manifestation of the general wound healing response expressed specifically in vascular tissue . the temporal response to injury occurs in three characteristic phases : inflammation , granulation and extracellular matrix remodeling . the specific expression of these phases in the coronary artery leads to intimal hyperplasia at 1 to 4 months . the major milestones in the temporal sequence of restenosis are platelet aggregation , inflammatory cell infiltration , release of growth factors , medial smooth muscle cell modulation and proliferation , proteoglycan deposition and extracellular matrix remodeling . each step has potential inhibitors that could be used for preventive therapy . resolution of restenosis , however , probably requires both creation of the largest possible residual lumen and substantial inhibition of intimal hyperplasia . 
percutaneous support devices for high risk or complicated coronary angioplasty . indications for coronary angioplasty have expanded to include patients with unstable acute ischemic syndromes , severe multivessel coronary artery disease and impaired left ventricular function . several mechanical approaches have been developed as adjuncts to high risk coronary angioplasty to improve patient tolerance of coronary balloon occlusion and maintain hemodynamic stability in the event of complications . these percutaneous techniques include intraaortic balloon counterpulsation , anterograde transcatheter coronary perfusion , coronary sinus retroperfusion , cardiopulmonary bypass , hemopump left ventricular assistance and partial left heart bypass . the intraaortic balloon pump provides hemodynamic support and ameliorates ischemia by decreasing myocardial work ; it may be inserted for periprocedural complications or before angioplasty in patients with ischemia or hypotension . anterograde distal coronary artery perfusion may be accomplished passively through an autoperfusion catheter or by active pumping of oxygenated blood or fluorocarbons through the central lumen of an angioplasty catheter . synchronized coronary sinus retroperfusion produces pulsatile blood flow via the cardiac veins to the coronary bed distal to a stenosis . both perfusion techniques limit development of ischemic chest pain and myocardial dysfunction in patients undergoing prolonged balloon inflations . percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass provides complete systemic hemodynamic support which is independent of intrinsic cardiac function or rhythm and has been employed prophylactically in very high risk patients before coronary angioplasty or emergently for abrupt closure . these and newer support devices , while associated with significant complications , may ultimately improve the safety of coronary angioplasty and allow its application to those who would otherwise not be candidates for revascularization . 
modification of atrioventricular node transmission properties by intraoperative neodymium-yag laser photocoagulation in dogs . the purpose of this study was to test the feasibility of neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet ( nd-yag ) laser photocoagulation of the atrioventricular ( av ) node to control the ventricular rate during rapid atrial rhythms without creating av block . in 12 dogs on normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass , short laser pulses were delivered to an area between the coronary sinus orifice and the site of the most proximally recorded his deflection until second degree av block occurred at a paced atrial rate of 200 beats/min . long-term effects on av node function were followed up for 3 months . three animals developed chronic high grade av block . in nine animals with preserved 1:1 conduction , the mean ( + / - sem ) critical atrial cycle length resulting in av node wenckebach periodicity increased from 183 + / - 6 to 261 + / - 24 ms ( +43 % ) , the mean rr interval during induced atrial fibrillation increased from 248 + / - 14 to 330 + / - 27 ms ( +32 % ) and the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation increased from 215 + / - 11 to 275 + / - 20 ms ( +28 % ) . laser effects were not reversed by isoproterenol infusion . histologic examination of the irradiated area showed fibrotic changes in the av node and fatty metamorphosis . this study suggests that 1 ) graded nd-yag laser photocoagulation of the av node region in dogs results in long-term modification of anterograde av node transmission properties ; 2 ) 1:1 conduction during sinus rhythm usually remains preserved , but ventricular rate during rapid atrial rhythms is chronically reduced ; and 3 ) progression to high grade av block occurs in a minority of animals . 
natural evolution of cardiac function , cardiac pathology and antimyosin scan in a murine myocarditis model . serial technetium-99m radionuclide ventriculograms , indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans and tissue biodistribution studies were performed in c3h/he mice with experimentally induced viral encephalomyocarditis and the results were compared with pathologic assessments of myocardial necrosis . postinfection ejection fraction decreased on days 10 ( 20.7 + / - 5.5 % , n = 6 ) , 20 ( 18.6 + / - 15.2 % , n = 5 ) , 30 ( 18.5 + / - 7.7 % , n = 5 ) and 150 ( 30.0 + / - 18.7 , n = 6 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) in comparison with that in uninfected control mice ( 63.3 + / - 3.1 % , n = 6 ) . in the same group of animals , indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans showed intense positive myocardial accumulation on day 10 ( in six of six mice ) and only slight accumulation on day 20 ( in one of five mice ) . in the chronic stage , two of five mice on day 30 and two of six mice on day 150 still showed positive uptake . the antimyosin scan myocardium to lung uptake ratio ( expressed as mean count density [ mean counts/pixel of the region ] ratio ) increased greatly on day 10 ( p less than 0.001 versus values in uninfected control mice ) but not subsequently . biodistribution studies of the indium-111 antimyosin antibody showed that the heart to blood count ratio was significantly higher on day 10 ( p less than 0.001 versus values in control mice ) but not on days 20 , 30 and 150 . pathologic examination showed active and ongoing severe myocardial necrosis with dilated ventricles on day 10 . on day 20 , there was less active necrosis and healing had appeared to begin . on days 30 and 150 , myocardial fibrosis increased . 
alterations of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the nasal mucosa of allergic patients in comparison with nonallergic individuals . cholinergic nasal hyperresponsiveness in nasal allergy may be due to changes of the characteristics in muscarinic cholinergic receptors . radioligand receptor binding and in vitro autoradiographic studies of nasal mucosa in nonallergic ( na ) and allergic patients were performed to investigate this hypothesis . the heterogeneous na group was subdivided into control individuals and patients with chronic sinusitis and vasomotor rhinitis . the 3h - ( - ) - quinuclidinylbenzilate binding to muscarinic receptors in human nasal mucosa membranes was saturable and of high affinity in all groups . no significant differences could be demonstrated between the subgroups of the na patients . in allergic patients the dissociation constants and receptor densities were significantly decreased in comparison with those of na and with those of control individuals . no differences in agonist binding or coupling of the muscarinic receptor to the effector system via the g protein could be observed in allergic patients . in vitro autoradiographic experiments demonstrated specific 3h - ( - ) - quinuclidinylbenzilate labeling of the glandular acini in na and allergic patients . no specific labeling could be observed in the epithelium , blood vessels , or connective tissue . in conclusion , the increased sensitivity and decreased muscarinic receptor number may reflect the cholinergic-induced hypersecretion in nasal allergy but are probably too small to explain the complex allergic reaction . 
alterations of adrenoceptors in the nasal mucosa of allergic patients in comparison with nonallergic individuals . nasal hyperreactivity in nasal allergy may be due to changes of the characteristics in adrenergic receptors . radioligand receptor-binding studies with the antagonists , 3h-prazosin ( alpha 1-adrenoceptor ) , 3h-rauwolscine ( alpha 2-adrenoceptor ) , and 125i - ( - ) - cyanopindolol ( beta-adrenoceptor ) were performed in homogenates of nasal mucosa of allergic and nonallergic ( na ) patients to investigate this hypothesis . the heterogeneous na group was subdivided into control individuals and patients with chronic sinusitis and vasomotor rhinitis . no significant differences in affinities or densities of alpha 1 - and alpha 2-adrenoceptors could be demonstrated in allergic patients in comparison with na and control individuals . the beta-adrenoceptor density was significantly reduced in allergic patients in comparison with that of control individuals . neither changes in agonist binding or in the effect of gpp ( nh ) p on the agonist binding to beta-adrenoceptors could be observed in allergic patients . the subtype selective antagonist , lk203-030 , demonstrated the presence of a homogeneous population of beta 2-adrenoceptors in human nasal mucosa of both na and allergic patients . in vitro , autoradiography demonstrated specific 125i - ( - ) - cyanopindolol labeling of the epithelium in na and allergic patients . in conclusion , no changes in characteristics of alpha 1 - or alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the nasal mucosa could be demonstrated in nasal allergy . however , a decreased number of beta-adrenoceptors may reflect a beta-adrenergic abnormality in nasal allergy . 
cross-linked hemoglobin solution as a resuscitative fluid after hemorrhage in the rat . intramolecularly ( alpha-alpha ) cross-linked hemoglobin has been reported to have oxygen transport properties similar to those of whole blood . the present study evaluated the efficacy of diaspirin alpha-alpha cross-linked hemoglobin solution as a resuscitation fluid , with heart rate , mean arterial pressure , and transcutaneous oxygen tension as the study parameters . rats were bled and approximately one third of their total blood volume ( 20 ml/kg ) was removed while they were anesthetized ; they were then resuscitated with 14 % hemoglobin solution . animals that received either 10 mg/kg ( n = 10 ) or 20 mg/kg ( n = 10 ) of hemoglobin solution responded quickly and positively to the infusions : mean arterial pressure ( which had dropped to less than 40 % of prehemorrhage levels ) returned to baseline within 2 minutes of initiating infusion ; by 4 minutes , the mean arterial pressures of the hemoglobin-infused groups were significantly higher ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) than those in both the autologous shed blood ( n = 8 ) and lactated ringer 's ( n = 10 ) groups . the heart rate and transcutaneous oxygen tension responses in both the half-volume and full-volume replacement hemoglobin groups matched the response to autologous shed blood throughout the hour of observation . the favorable hemodynamic response to infusion of cross-linked hemoglobin solution after hemorrhage suggests that this material is comparable to autologous shed blood and superior to lactated ringer 's solution as a resuscitative fluid as assessed in this model . 
early-onset dementia and extrapyramidal disease : clinicopathological variant of gerstmann-straussler-scheinker or alzheimer 's disease ? a case of progressive dementia and extrapyramidal signs beginning at age 29 , with a ten year course until death , is presented . necropsy examination showed an assortment of plaque types ( including striatal plaques ) , neurofibrillary tangles , granulovacuolar degeneration , and depigmentation of the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus . this case had pathological features found in both gerstmann-straussler-scheinker disease and in alzheimer 's disease . while somewhat similar to several other cases with features of both diseases , it differs in the presence of dystonia and striatal plaques . although such cases may be difficult to categorize at present , they must be considered in the differential diagnosis of early onset dementia . 
touch and surgical division of the anterior quadrant of the spinal cord . an investigation was carried out to determine whether tactile sensibility was affected by anterolateral cordotomy . there were 65 patients who had cordotomies for painful forms of cancer . thirty eight had necropsy examination with histological investigation of the spinal cord . no form of mechanoreception was removed in any of the 65 patients and in the majority no forms of tactile sensibility were altered by division of the pathways in the anterolateral and anterior columns . in no case was graphaesthesia affected . knowledge of joint position and movement and awareness of vibration was normal in 62 of the 65 patients . but information carried by these anterolateral pathways does reach neural levels of consciousness , for with total lesions of the posterior columns , previously reported , touch and pressure are still felt . itch was removed by division of the anterolateral pathways . although the posterior columns are essential for discrimination in mechanoreception , discrimination may be disturbed by lesions of the anterolateral pathways , notably two-point discrimination . the evidence on the pathways essential for conveying impulses giving rise to tickle was inconclusive . 
electrophysiology of motor pathways for sphincter control in multiple sclerosis . the central and peripheral motor pathways serving striated sphincter muscle function were studied using cortical and lumbar transcutaneous electrical stimulation , pudendal nerve stimulation and sphincter electromyography in 23 patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , and sphincter disturbance , including incontinence of urine or faeces , urinary voiding dysfunction , or constipation . the central motor conduction time was significantly increased in the ms group compared to controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . damage to both the upper and lower motor neuron pathways can contribute to sphincter disturbance in ms. the latter may be due to coexisting pathology or to involvement of the conus medullaris by ms. 
a simple method to improve the accuracy of non-invasive ultrasound in selecting tia patients for cerebral angiography . a prospective study is reported of the ability of b mode ultrasound imaging and continuous wave doppler flow studies to detect different degrees of stenosis of the extracranial internal carotid artery ( ica ) in 186 arteries in 99 patients with transient ischaemic attacks ( tia ) and minor ischaemic stroke . a simple mathematical equation has been developed which combines the image and flow data to provide a single predictor of the degree of angiographic stenosis which has advantages over either ultrasonic modality used alone . the sensitivity and specificity of the predictive model in the detection of stenosis greater than or equal to 25 % was 73 % and 98 % , of stenosis greater than or equal to 50 % was 90 % and 93 % , of stenosis greater than or equal to 75 % , 65 % and 99 % and occlusion 100 % and 94 % respectively . the principal clinical value of ultrasound screening is to spare patients with " non-significant " stenosis the risk of unnecessary angiography . thus a simple measure of the duplex screening tests ' performance is the proportion of all strokes occurring as a complication of angiography that are avoided by changing the investigation policy from " angiograms for all carotid tia and minor ischaemic stroke patients " to " angiograms for all patients with abnormal ultrasound results " . if duplex scanning were used to select patients most likely to have a significant abnormality on angiography , depending on the degree of stenosis to be detected , 52-85 % of angiographic strokes might be avoided . if the predictive equation were used 62-88 % of angiographic strokes might be avoided . 
spectral analysis of tremor : understanding the results . spectral analysis of a tremor record can sometimes produce a spectrum with multiple components of significant amplitude . the problem is to determine whether the presence of several peaks represents the coexistence of separate tremor mechanisms or be a consequence of fluctuations in the frequency or amplitude of a single tremor . the spectrum of a tremor whose frequency or amplitude vary and are independent has the recognisable pattern of a central carrier frequency with sidebands of equal amplitudes distributed symmetrically around the carrier . however , if tremor amplitude and frequency fluctuate and are not independent , ( frequency proportional to amplitude or frequency inversely proportional to amplitude ) , the spectrum has a pattern of sidebands which are asymmetrical in amplitudes and may resemble the spectrum of the combined signal from different independent oscillators . the investigation of sidebands in spectra has been neglected in tremor studies and multiple irregular peaks on a tremor spectrum have sometimes been used wrongly as evidence for the coexistence of multiple tremor mechanisms or frequency components assumed to be concurrent . 
slowly progressive aphasia : three cases with language , memory , ct and pet data . three cases of slowly progressive speech and language disturbance were studied at various points post onset ( three , five and 15 years respectively ) . language , neuropsychological and brain imaging ( computer tomography and positron emission tomography ) evaluations were completed on all three patients . the data suggest that the syndrome of " progressive aphasia " : 1 ) does not involve a uniform symptom complex ; 2 ) does not necessarily develop into a full blown dementia syndrome ; 3 ) varies greatly in rate of progression from case to case ; 4 ) is associated with normal brain structure ( on computer tomography ) ; and 5 ) is associated with abnormal left temporal lobe metabolism as measured by fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) positron emission tomography ( pet ) . one patient had histological findings consistent with alzheimer 's disease at necropsy . 
contracturing granulomatous myositis : a separate entity . granulomatous muscle disease is most commonly seen in sarcoidosis , but may be seen in association with a wide variety of other disorders or in isolation . patients with granulomatous myositis usually present with slowly progressive muscle pain and weakness affecting mainly proximal muscles . there are , however , a few reports of granulomatous muscle disease presenting with flexion contractures of the limbs . two further patients with granulomatous muscle disease and flexion contractures of the limbs , but with no evidence of systemic granulomatous disease , is presented . it is suggested that such patients represent a separate clinical entity that is distinct from idiopathic granulomatous myositis presenting with muscle pain and weakness . the association of contracturing granulomatous myositis with a long-standing vasculitis in one patient suggests that the two conditions may be related . 
hydromyelic hydrocephalus . correlation of hydromyelia with various stages of hydrocephalus in postshunt isolated compartments . the clinical features and pathophysiology of specific forms of hydromyelia are analyzed in this report together with the chronological changes of associated hydrocephalus . nine patients were studied ; all had hydromyelia with varying degrees of associated hydrocephalus . clinically applicable classification systems were used to evaluate the progression of hydrocephalus ( stages i to iv ) and to define the compartment isolated after shunting in the previously communicating cerebral ventricles ( types i to iv ) . four patients had stage iv disease ( holoneural canal dilatation ) ; one had stage ii and four had stage i disease ( both stages i and ii with supratentorial hydrocephalus ) . all patients were initially treated by ventriculoperitoneal shunting at an average age of 9.9 years . five patients had progressive spinal symptoms before or after treatment of their hydrocephalus . two patients had type iii isolation ( an isolated rhombencephalic ventricle ) with a functioning ventricular shunt ; ventriculography confirmed a communication between the fourth ventricle and the hydromyelia , and both patients improved after placement of a shunt in the fourth ventricle . the remaining patients had type iv isolation ( isolated central canal dilatation ) with a functioning ventricular shunt . this study indicates that in some cases the pathophysiology of hydromyelia is closely related to associated hydrocephalus . a new concept of the development of an isolated compartment after shunting is proposed to explain the progression of hydromyelia in these cases . 
radical intracapsular removal of acoustic neurinomas . long-term follow-up review of 11 patients . historically , the neurosurgical treatment of large acoustic neurinomas has developed with two principal goals : complete tumor removal and preservation of facial nerve function . a recent goal for small tumors is the preservation of hearing . out of a personal series of 124 acoustic neurinomas treated over the past 35 years , the senior author has undertaken a radical intracapsular approach in 12 patients with large tumors ( greater than 3 cm in diameter ) . surgical indications for intracapsular removal included advanced age ( five cases ) , the patient 's wish to avoid any risk of facial paralysis ( six cases ) , contralateral facial palsy ( one case ) , and contralateral deafness ( one case ) . eleven of these 12 patients were available for follow-up review . tumor recurrence developed in two patients ( 18 % ) at 2 and 3 years postoperatively ; there were no late recurrences . four patients died of unrelated causes , 10 to 19 years after surgery . the remaining five patients have survived a mean of 12 years since surgery without recurrence ( range 3 to 22 years ) . facial function was preserved in nine patients ( 82 % ) . the results suggest that radical intracapsular removal may be the procedure of choice under certain circumstances and may offer an alternative to focused high-energy radiation . 
tethered cord syndrome from a choristoma of mullerian origin . case report . the authors report a case of tethered cord syndrome due to a choristoma of mullerian origin located in the spinal cord at the lumbosacral junction . two similar cases were found upon review of the literature . the embryology of this lesion is discussed . 
intradural chordoma of the tentorium cerebelli . case report . a rare case of intradural chordoma is described . the literature contains seven examples of intradural extraosseous chordoma , all reported in a ventral location . this is the first reported case of a primary intradural chordoma distant from the clivus and involving both the supra - and infratentorial compartments . 
relationship of parental smoking to wheezing and nonwheezing lower respiratory tract illnesses in infancy . group health medical associates . the relationship between parental smoking and lower respiratory tract illness ( lri ) was studied in a large cohort of infants followed prospectively from birth . illnesses were diagnosed by physicians using agreed-on criteria , and parental smoking histories were obtained by questionnaire . the lris were differentiated into wheezing and nonwheezing episodes , and the age at first illness of either type was evaluated in relation to smoking by parents . the odds of having an lri were significantly higher in children whose mothers smoked ( odds ratio 1.52 ; confidence interval 1.07 to 2.15 ) . the odds were higher if the mother smoked a pack of cigarettes or more per day and if the child stayed home rather than attending day care ( odds ratio 2.8 ; confidence interval 1.43 to 5.5 ) . logistic regression indicated that the lri rate was significantly elevated both in children exposed to heavy maternal smoke in the absence of day care , and in those who use day care but were not exposed to maternal smoking of a pack or more per day . these findings could not be attributed to other confounding variables . neither paternal smoking nor smoking by other household members was consistently related to the lri rate . the relationship of maternal smoking to lri rate was evident for both wheezing and nonwheezing illnesses . maternal smoking of a pack or more per day was also related to an early age at first lri , for both wheezing ( p less than 0.05 ) and nonwheezing ( p less than 0.002 ) illnesses . in sum , maternal smoking is associated with a higher rate of lris in the first year , particularly when mothers smoked a pack or more per day and when the child did not use day care . 
clinical and biologic effects of granulocyte colony stimulating factor in the treatment of myelokathexis . successful treatment of a patient with myelokathexis , a rare form of chronic neutropenia associated with recurrent infections , is described . rapid mobilization of bone marrow neutrophils and improved myeloid morphologic features were observed after treatment with human granulocyte colony stimulating factor . transient thrombocytopenia and bone pain were observed during treatment . although neutrophil chemotaxis , superoxide production , and fcriii surface expression were reduced , the patient improved clinically after restoration of a normal neutrophil count . 
dexamethasone in the prevention of postextubation stridor in children . to assess whether there is any advantage in the use of corticosteroid to prevent postextubation stridor in children , we conducted a prospective , randomized , double-blind trial of dexamethasone versus saline solution . the patients were evaluated and then randomly selected to receive either dexamethasone or saline solution according to a stratification based on risk factors for postextubation stridor : age , duration of intubation , upper airway trauma , circulatory compromise , and tracheitis . dexamethasone , 0.5 mg/kg , was given every 6 hours for a total of six doses beginning 6 to 12 hours before and continuing after endotracheal extubation in a pediatric intensive care setting . there was no statistical difference in incidence of postextubation stridor in the two groups ; 23 of 77 children in the placebo group and 16 of 76 in the dexamethasone group had stridor requiring therapy ( p = 0.21 ) . we conclude that the routine use of corticosteroids for the prevention of postextubation stridor during uncomplicated pediatric intensive care airway management is unwarranted . 
enantiomers of oxybutynin : in vitro pharmacological characterization at m1 , m2 and m3 muscarinic receptors and in vivo effects on urinary bladder contraction , mydriasis and salivary secretion in guinea pigs . the major side effects of racemic oxybutynin ( oxy ) , which is used in the treatment of urinary incontinence are dry mouth ( xerostomia ) and blurred vision ( mydriasis ) . highly purified enantiomers of oxy [ ( r ) oxy , ( s ) oxy ] were compared with the racemate both in vitro in functional studies and in vivo in guinea pigs to evaluate their pharmacological action relative to their adverse effects . the affinity of ( r ) oxy and ( s ) oxy for different muscarinic receptor subtypes was determined using field stimulated rabbit vas deferens ( m1 ) and guinea pig atria ( m2 ) or bladder ( m3 ) strips . stereoselective antimuscarinic effects [ ( r ) oxy greater than or equal to ( r/s ) oxy much greater than ( s ) oxy ] were evident at all three receptor subtypes ; the isomeric ratio [ ( s ) oxy / ( r ) oxy ] ranged from 12 to 88 . both ( r ) oxy and ( r/s ) oxy were slightly more selective ( 2-4-fold , p less than .01 ) for m1 and m3 relative to m2 muscarinic receptors . stereoselectivity was also evident in vivo for volume-induced urinary bladder contractions as measured by cystometrogram parameters [ ( s ) oxy / ( r ) oxy approximately 21 ] , mydriasis [ ( s ) oxy / ( r ) oxy approximately 136 ] and salivary gland secretory responses [ ( s ) oxy / ( r ) oxy approximately 30 ] . the absolute potencies of ( r ) oxy or ( r/s ) oxy for mydriasis and salivation were similar to those for inhibition of intravesical bladder pressure . also , ( r ) oxy and ( r/s ) oxy equipotently antagonized cholinergic-mediated cns effects in mice . collectively , the data suggest that the activity of ( r/s ) oxy resides predominantly in the ( r ) - enantiomer . however , it appears that ( r ) oxy may offer no significant pharmacological advantage over ( r/s ) oxy in terms of its principal therapeutic and side effect profile . 
evidence for intraluminal ca + + regulatory site defect in sarcoplasmic reticulum from malignant hyperthermia pig muscle . malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) is a pharmacogenetic disease of humans and various animal species that predisposes to a life-threatening , anesthetic agent-induced syndrome . mh is thought to be a consequence of abnormal , sustained increases in myoplasmic ca + + and sarcoplasmic reticulum ( sr ) membranes from mh muscle have been shown to have a ca + + release channel defect . in the present study we have tested a hypothesis that the abnormal ca + + release mechanism in mh can be expressed when ca + + is loaded in the presence of pyrophosphate . sr membrane vesicles isolated from normal and mh pig muscle were loaded with ca + + in the presence and absence of pyrophosphate until ca ( + + ) - induced ca + + release occurred . under both circumstances the threshold amount of ca + + loaded until ca + + release occurred was lower in the sr from mh pig skeletal muscle . this difference in amount of ca + + preload is not explained by results obtained comparing rates of ca + + uptake , number of ryanodine binding sites or the amounts of calsequestrin among sr vesicles from mh and normal muscle . we conclude from this study that use of pyrophosphate for ca + + loading does not ablate the abnormal ca + + release in sr from mh muscle , suggesting the study can be done on small amounts of sr from biopsied human muscle . the data also suggest that abnormality in an intraluminal , low affinity ca + + binding site regulating ca + + release occurs in the sr membrane of mh pig muscle . 
ibuprofen prevents deterioration in static transpulmonary compliance and transalveolar protein flux in septic porcine acute lung injury . the effects of intravenous ibuprofen on measurements of pulmonary function and alveolar capillary membrane permeability to protein in sepsis-induced porcine acute lung injury ( ali ) were studied . young swine ( 15-25 kg ) were anesthetized , cannulated , and ventilated ( 5 cm h2o peep , 0.5 fio2 , and 15 cc/kg tidal volume ) . three groups were studied : septic animals ( ps , n = 10 ) received pseudomonas aeruginosa for 1 hr iv , controls ( c , n = 9 ) received 0.9 % nacl , and ibuprofen-treated septic animals ( ps + ibu , n = 7 ) received ibuprofen 12.5 mg/kg at 0 and 120 min post ps . systemic ( sap ) and pulmonary ( pap ) arterial pressures , pao2 , cardiac index ( ci ) , static lung compliance ( cl ) , evlw ( thermal cardiogreen ) , and peripheral white blood cell counts ( wbc ) were measured . bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) was performed for protein and % neutrophil ( % pmn ) content . results : ps produced significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decreases in cl , pao2 , sap , ci , and peripheral wbc and increases in pap , evlw , bal protein , and % pmn 's vs. controls . ibu prevented the early increase in pap and attenuated the late increase in pap and evlw . ibu also maintained pao2 , cl , bal protein , and % pmn 's in bal at control levels , but exhibited no significant effect on peripheral leukopenia . these data strongly suggest that ibuprofen administered before and at 120 min after onset of pseudomonas infusion improves lung compliance and affects neutrophil function sufficiently to significantly ameliorate many of the physiologic derangements in acute sepsis . 
combined hemorrhagic shock and head injury : effects of hypertonic saline ( 7.5 % ) resuscitation . hypertonic saline resuscitation was compared to isotonic fluid resuscitation in a large animal model combining hemorrhagic shock with head injury . sheep were subjected to a freeze injury of one cerebral hemisphere as well as 2 hours of hypotension at a mean arterial pressure ( map ) of 40 mm hg . resuscitation was then carried out ( map = 80 mm hg ) for 1 hour with either lactated ringer 's ( lr , n = 6 ) or 7.5 % hypertonic saline ( hs , n = 6 ) . hemodynamic parameters and intracranial pressure ( icp ) were followed . at the end of resuscitation brain water content was determined in injured and uninjured hemispheres . no differences were detected in cardiovascular parameters ; however , icps were lower in animals resuscitated with hs ( 4.2 + / - 1.5 mm hg ) compared to lr ( 15.2 + / - 2.2 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) . additionally , brain water content ( ml h2o/gm dry weight ) in uninjured brain hemispheres was lower after hs resuscitation ( hs = 3.3 + / - 0.1 ; lr = 4.0 + / - 0.1 ; p less than 0.05 ) . no differences were detected in the injured hemispheres . we conclude that hypertonic saline abolishes increases in icp seen during resuscitation in a model combining hemorrhagic shock with brain injury by dehydrating areas where the blood-brain barrier is still intact . hypertonic saline may prove useful in the early management of multiple trauma patients . 
absorbable mesh splenorrhaphy for severe splenic injuries : functional studies in an animal model and an additional patient series . polyglycolic acid mesh has been introduced as a method of controlling hemorrhage in severely damaged spleens . this study examines the effect of splenic wrapping on the immune function of the spleen , and also on its ability to control splenic bleeding in trauma patients . thirty purebred beagle dogs were divided into three groups and subjected to sham operation ( group 1 ) , splenectomy ( group 2 ) , and splenic wrap ( group 3 ) . immunologic studies showed no difference between the wrapped group ( group 3 ) and those with their spleens intact ( group 1 ) in the induction of specific antibody-producing lymphocytes in splenic tissue after the injection of attenuated pneumococci . all splenic injuries treated at cook county hospital between january 1985 and may 1988 were retrospectively analyzed . of 60 patients with splenic injuries , 14 underwent mesh splenorrhaphy without mortality or serious complications . this study demonstrates that the immune function of spleen is preserved following mesh splenorrhapy , and that this technique can be used in a clinical setting with safe and efficacious results . 
optimal escort for interhospital transport of pediatric emergencies . the charts of 130 seriously ill or injured children transported to tertiary level intensive care were examined to determine the incidence of secondary insults incurred , as a function of escort training . of all insults incurred , approximately 8 % occurred with specialized pediatric transport escorts who were accompanied by a tertiary care physician ( group iii , n = 52 ) ; 20 % with specialized pediatric transport escorts alone ( group ii , n = 44 ) ; and 72 % with escorts who had not received specialized pediatric transport training ( group i , n = 34 ) . based on our results , we recommend that all transport coordinators review the qualifications and experience of their transport team members and all potential escorts to assess their ability to provide optimal care for the children they transport , particularly during long journeys , transfer by air , and when serious illness or injury is involved . 
relative effects of brain and non-brain injuries on neuropsychological and psychosocial outcome . based on the 242 consecutive surviving head injury cases and 132 general trauma cases , this study examined the contribution of brain and non-brain injuries to cognitive and psychosocial outcome 1 month postinjury . the study also examined the relationships among various head injury severity indices . the head injury severity indices were all correlated but patients with glasgow coma scale scores in the mild range had broadly ranging scores on the other head injury severity indices ( abbreviated injury scale and time to follow commands ) . neuropsychological outcome was related to brain injury severity , but was not independently influenced by severity of other systems injuries . psychosocial outcome related to both brain and non-brain injuries independently . when evaluating trauma outcome , it is important to consider the contributions of both brain and other system injuries . 
ossified chronic subdural hematoma : case report . a case of ossified chronic subdural hematoma is presented in a 13-year-old male in whom the mass was surgically removed . his neurological deficits continued afterward but were less severe . 
thoracoabdominal repair of a post-traumatic aortorenal vein fistula following a previous transabdominal attempt : case report . aortorenal vein fistula from trauma is a rare entity . a case is reported in which previous anterior abdominal attempts at repair rendered a thoracoabdominal approach necessary . previous reports and techniques are compared and discussed . 
hepatic portal venous gas identified by computed tomography in a patient with blunt abdominal trauma : a case report . an abdominal computed tomographic ( ct ) scan in a middle-aged man injured in a high-speed motor vehicle accident demonstrated the presence of portal venous gas . findings on initial peritoneal lavage were entirely negative . exploratory celiotomy performed because of increasing abdominal pain and leukocytosis revealed gangrene of the cecum . this report illustrates the importance of the finding of portal venous gas on ct scan in patients with blunt abdominal trauma . 
patient factors predicting early alcohol-related readmissions for alcoholics : role of alcoholism severity and psychiatric co-morbidity . the current study was undertaken primarily to identify whether psychiatric co-morbidity was associated with the rate and time of alcohol-related inpatient readmissions for a group of 255 patients discharged from alcoholism treatment at a midwestern rural medical center . a structured interview obtained information regarding psychiatric disorders , including depression , antisocial personality disorders and polysubstance abuse , as well as alcohol history and sociodemographics . ninety-eight subjects ( 38.4 % of sample ) were readmitted for alcoholism-related diagnoses within 15 months of discharge . patients with a long history of heavy drinking , high daily alcohol consumption and history of previous alcoholism treatment were most likely to be readmitted with an alcoholism-related primary diagnosis . once these variables were controlled for , other major psychiatric disorders , polysubstances abuse and sociodemographic variables did not appear to predict time to readmission . however , other potentially more sensitive outcome measures such as return to drinking were not evaluated in the present study . 
the long-term course of treated alcoholism : i. mortality , relapse and remission rates and comparisons with community controls . this study examines the course of alcoholism for a sample of patients who were followed 2 years and 10 years later after an index residential treatment episode . the alcoholic patients were 9.5 times as likely to die as matched community controls over the 8-year interval between the two follow-ups , a ratio considerably higher than that found in previous studies . of the 83 surviving and successfully followed patients , 57 % were classified as remitted at the 10-year follow-up . of the patients classified as remitted at the 2-year follow-up and recontacted 8 years later , 77 % had the same outcome status at the long-term follow-up , 67 % of the initially relapsed patients retained that status at the 10-year follow-up . the 10-year remitted patients generally were functioning as well as matched , nonproblem-drinking community controls , whereas the relapsed patients exhibited dysfunction in a number of areas . retrospective data on drinking patterns during each of the 6 years prior to the 10-year follow-up indicated a slight increase over time in the proportion of patients reporting abstinence or nonproblem drinking , with a concomitant decrease in the proportion indicating heavy or binge drinking . overall , our data show a substantially elevated mortality risk among these alcoholic patients . for those patients who survive , however , the average course is one of modest improvement . 
changes in anxiety among abstinent male alcoholics . symptoms of anxiety are prevalent features of alcoholics seeking treatment . in the present study levels of state anxiety among male primary alcoholics ( with no preexisting major psychiatric disorders ) were examined 3 times per week during inpatient treatment for alcoholism and again at 3 months following treatment . the 171 male alcoholics also completed the trait scale of the state trait anxiety inventory upon admission to an inpatient program and at 3 months following treatment . results indicate that recently detoxified males experience multiple anxiety symptoms , with 40 % reporting significantly elevated levels of state anxiety at admission ( greater than or equal to 75th percentile ) . by the second week of treatment state anxiety scores typically returned to the normal range although symptoms continued to decrease significantly with each week of continued abstinence . elevated levels of anxiety symptoms were more common among primary alcoholics with a history of panic episodes or generalized anxiety disorder symptoms . while abstainers and relapsers did not differ in level of anxiety observed during treatment , the relapsers report significantly higher state and trait anxiety scores at follow-up . 
antisocial alcoholics : are there clinically significant diagnostic subtypes ? of 360 alcoholic male inpatients assessed with a diagnostic interview , 106 ( 29 % ) were found to have a co-occurring diagnosis of antisocial personality . of these asp alcoholics , 86 were further subdivided into those with only asp and alcoholism ( n = 38 ) , those with asp , alcoholism and drug dependence ( n = 30 ) and those with asp , alcoholism and depression ( n = 18 ; 9 of whom also had drug abuse ) . comparisons among the three antisocial groups indicated that they differed in measures of psychopathology and course and severity of alcoholism . when the asp groups were compared to an alcoholism only group , an earlier onset , more rapid course and increased percentage of many alcoholism symptoms were found in the asp groups , confirming the findings of other studies . 
snow skiing for the physically disabled . the sport of snow skiing by the physically disabled , which originated in europe in 1935 and first received attention in the united states in the 1940s , is reviewed in terms of opportunities available , instructions , adaptive equipment necessary , and benefits provided . persons with a wide variety of disabilities ( such as cerebral palsy , multiple sclerosis , spinal cord injury , hemiplegia , amputation , blindness , spina bifida , and muscular dystrophy ) can participate . accordingly , a wide range of adaptive equipment is available -- including outrigger skis , flip-skis , canting wedges , ski bras , " toe spreaders , " sit-skis , and mono-skis -- to allow safe enjoyment of the sport . programs for instruction of the disabled skier are increasing in number and popularity , and numerous opportunities are available to enter competitive events sponsored by national handicapped sports . both the participants and the instructors relate the numerous physical and psychologic benefits that can be derived from skiing ; the sport provides an almost universal enjoyment of the sense of freedom and independence . snow skiing is an enjoyable , beneficial , outdoor cold-weather activity that the disabled population can safely learn with proper instruction . 
oxygen-exacerbated bleomycin pulmonary toxicity bleomycin is an antineoplastic agent with potential for producing pulmonary toxicity , attributed in part to its free radical-promoting ability . clinical and research experiences have suggested that the risk of bleomycin-induced pulmonary injury is increased with the administration of oxygen . we report a case in which the intraoperative administration of oxygen in the setting of previous bleomycin therapy contributed to postoperative ventilatory failure . our patient recovered with corticosteroid therapy . physician awareness of a potential interaction between oxygen and bleomycin may help reduce the morbidity and mortality related to bleomycin therapy . 
spontaneous renal rupture during pregnancy . spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis during pregnancy has been previously reported in 16 cases . in the case we describe in this report , the patient initially had right flank pain and nausea for 48 hours , which progressed to severe abdominal symptoms that necessitated exploratory laparotomy . cystoscopic placement of a ureteral stent relieved the obstruction and allowed spontaneous healing of the renal pelvis . dilatation of the urinary collecting system commonly occurs during pregnancy . spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis , however , is unusual and often associated with diseased kidneys . our case is the 8th one of spontaneous rupture of the renal collecting system with no identifiable underlying pathologic condition and the 17th case of spontaneous renal rupture overall . 
cesarean section before the onset of labor and subsequent motor function in infants with meningomyelocele diagnosed antenatally background . meningomyelocele can now be detected before birth . few data are available on its natural history , however , and optimal management at the time of delivery is controversial , although it has been suggested that labor and vaginal delivery may cause pressure on exposed nerve roots , resulting in additional loss of neural function . methods . to assess the effect of labor and the type of delivery on the level of motor function in fetuses with uncomplicated meningomyelocele , we identified 200 cases of this disorder , accounting for 95 percent of the cases that occurred in the state of washington during our 10-year study period . we compared the outcomes of 47 infants delivered by cesarean section before labor began , 35 delivered by cesarean section after a period of labor , and 78 who were delivered vaginally ( another 40 were ineligible for the study ) . in cases of meningomyelocele detected prenatally , cesarean section was performed before the onset of labor if isolated meningomyelocele without severe hydrocephalus was present . the infants delivered in this manner were compared with those who were delivered either vaginally or by cesarean section after labor began . results . at two years of age , the infants who had been exposed to labor were 2.2 times more likely to have severe paralysis than those delivered by cesarean section without labor ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.7 to 2.8 ) . infants delivered by cesarean section before the beginning of labor had a mean ( + / - sd ) level of paralysis 3.3 + / - 3.0 segments below the anatomical level of the spinal lesion at two years of age , as compared with 1.1 + / - 2.3 for infants delivered vaginally and 0.9 + / - 4.1 for infants delivered by cesarean section after the beginning of labor ( p less than 0.001 for both comparisons ) . exposure to labor did not affect the frequency of neonatal complications or later intellectual performance . conclusions . for the fetus with uncomplicated meningomyelocele , delivery by cesarean section before the onset of labor may result in better subsequent motor function than vaginal delivery or delivery by cesarean section after a period of labor . 
rupture of a giant carotid aneurysm after extracranial-to-intracranial bypass surgery . we report a case of a fatal rupture of a previously unruptured giant aneurysm of the bifurcation of the internal carotid artery ( ica ) , which occurred after an extracranial-intracranial ( ec-ic ) bypass and the partial occlusion of the ica . interim angiography showed retrograde filling of the proximal middle cerebral artery to the aneurysm . there have been four previously reported cases of giant aneurysms rupturing after treatment with an ec-ic bypass and carotid ligation , and it appears likely that a change in pressure/flow dynamics produced by the bypass may have been the cause . the technique of carotid ligation with an ec-ic bypass is used frequently to treat unclippable intracranial aneurysms , and the resulting hemodynamic changes need to be considered carefully to prevent this type of complication . to minimize hemodynamic stress on the aneurysm , we suggest that 1 ) the bypass caliber should be as small as possible consistent with sufficient cerebral blood flow after ica occlusion , and 2 ) complete ica occlusion should be performed as soon as possible after the bypass . 
failure of transluminal angioplasty in the treatment of myointimal hyperplasia of the internal carotid artery : case report . recurrent stenosis of the carotid arteries after a carotid endarterectomy for atherosclerosis can occur as a result of myointimal hyperplasia . this condition was treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . excellent dilatation of the vessel lumen was documented after balloon dilatation . a 6-month follow-up angiographic study , however , demonstrated recurrent high-grade stenosis at the same level in both carotid arteries . presumably , the failure of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and the treatment of myointimal hyperplasia of the internal carotid artery results in the same condition after the original endarterectomy , that is , additional myointimal hyperplasia . 
abscess of the sphenoid sinus after transsphenoidal surgery . a case of a bacterial abscess developing in the sphenoid sinus 2 weeks after transsphenoidal surgery is presented . although abscesses within the sella turcica have been reported as rare complications of transsphenoidal surgery , this is the first reported case of the postoperative formation of an abscess of the sphenoid sinus . the patient sought treatment for severe headaches , nausea and vomiting , and marked temperature elevation . a computed tomographic scan demonstrated soft tissue and air within the sphenoid sinus . a regimen of stress doses of hydrocortisone and antibiotics was prescribed , and the patient underwent transsphenoidal drainage of the sphenoid sinus . the sella turcica was not involved . anaerobic cultures were positive for fusobacterium necrophorum . 
progressive coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension : report of two cases . two cases of neurological deterioration and coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension and invasion of the 3rd ventricle are presented . emergency ventricular shunting led to prompt neurological improvement , which , supplemented by radiation therapy , allowed long-term amelioration of symptoms . three possible explanations for this complication are offered : 1 ) traction of the attached 3rd ventricle into the decompression site , causing increased obstructive hydrocephalus , 2 ) vasopressin release by surgical manipulation of the pituitary stalk and circumventricular organs causing cerebral edema , and 3 ) edema in the residual tumor secondary to surgical manipulation causing further hydrocephalus . subsequent patients with similar clinical and imaging criteria will have a planned perioperative ventricular shunting procedure performed . 
ectopic retinoblastoma within the 3rd ventricle : case report . ectopic intracranial retinoblastomas are rare . these tumors usually occur in the pineal , parasellar , or suprasellar regions several years after the successful treatment of ocular retinoblastomas with no evidence of direct extension or distant metastasis . we report here a case of ectopic retinoblastoma occurring within the third ventricle . the tumor was surgically excised by the transventricular approach . ectopic retinoblastomas exhibit greater differentiation than one would expect to observe in a metastatic lesion of this tumor . the distinction of ectopic retinoblastomas and metastasis from ocular retinoblastomas is important , since ectopic retinoblastomas , unlike metastasis , can be successfully managed by intensive therapy including radical excision . 
spinal cord stimulation : a contemporary series forty-three patients with chronic pain disorders of different causes were selected for spinal cord stimulation . all underwent implantation of a ribbon electrode through a small laminotomy , under general anesthesia . thirteen patients ( 30 % ) failed to obtain significant pain relief during a period of trial stimulation , and their electrodes were removed . the remainder underwent a definitive implant and were followed for a mean of 13 months ( range , 3-33 months ) . nineteen of them ( 63 % ) continued to experience pain relief . a detailed analysis of this series , as well as a literature review , is presented . 
the caspar microsurgical discectomy and comparison with a conventional standard lumbar disc procedure . the outcome in 119 patients who were operated on with a conventional standard lumbar discectomy procedure was retrospectively compared with that in 299 patients who were operated on with a microsurgical discectomy technique developed in homburg/saar , federal republic of germany by the senior author ( w.c. ) . all patients in this consecutive series had " virgin " lumbar radiculopathy evaluated and operated upon by two experienced surgeons at one institution . determination of the final outcome was made objectively by an impartial third party using identical criteria for both groups , and with a patient self-evaluation form . the study looked at various pertinent aspects of the treatment course and at final outcome . the results in the microsurgical group were significantly favorable : fewer levels were explored : there was less operative blood loss and a decreased incidence of deep venous thrombosis , urinary tract infections , pulmonary emboli , and bladder catheterization ; the time to full ambulation , discharge , and return to work was faster : and there was a decrease in change of occupation and a greater percentage of satisfactory final outcomes , as measured both objectively and subjectively . a description of the microsurgical technique used in this study , which differs significantly from existing microdisectomy techniques , is presented . the authors conclude that the microsurgical disectomy technique presented in this study is a safe and effective approach to the treatment of lumbar radiculopathy . 
the transoral approach for the management of intradural lesions at the craniovertebral junction : review of 7 cases . the main difficulty in dealing with intradural lesions located ventrally in the region of the craniovertebral junction ( cvj ) is related to their relative inaccessibility . posterolateral approaches involve some manipulation of the brain stem and provide limited access because of the necessity of working between the cranial nerves . even then , the view of the ventral midline and across is limited . the transoral approach , which has been widely used for the management of extradural lesions in this area , is also useful for the treatment of intradural lesions . it provides an unimpeded although somewhat restricted , view of the ventral aspect of the cvj without the need for brain retraction . the cranial nerves and vertebral arteries are not interposed between the surgeon and the lesion . the risks of cerebrospinal fluid leakage and infection are greatly diminished by the use of fibrin adhesive and prolonged diversion of the cerebrospinal fluid . the use of this approach , together with its technical difficulties and results , in the management of seven purely intradural lesions located ventrally at the cvj , is discussed . 
application of instat hemostat in the control of gingival hemorrhage in the patient with thrombocytopenia . a case report . gingival bleeding in the patient with thrombocytopenia can be a difficult management problem . primary therapy with platelet transfusions may not be sufficient to control the hemorrhage and adjunctive local therapy may be required . currently , few local management techniques can effectively control this problem . instat collagen absorbable hemostat can be used as a local adjunct with platelet transfusions and has certain application advantages over topical thrombin and microfibrillar collagen . two successful techniques of instat application to control gingival hemorrhage in a patient with severe thrombocytopenia in leukemic relapse are described . 
effect of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow , blood , and oral granulocyte counts . this study was designed to elicit the effects of antileukemia chemotherapy on marrow production , blood carriage , and oral extravasation of granulocytes , and on the phagocytic activity of those harvested from the mouth . fifteen adult patients with various morphologic forms of acute leukemia were followed through one to four courses of chemotherapy . oral saline rinse samples were obtained thrice weekly and prepared for enumeration in a hemocytometer . the oral granulocyte counts were compared with concurrent counts in the bone marrow and peripheral blood . phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was measured by the method of smith and rommel . the 15 patients were followed through 30 courses of chemotherapy and recovery . during each , there was a drug-induced decrease in marrow , blood , and oral granulocytes that was reversed when therapy was discontinued and bone marrow activity was restored . phagocytic activity of the oral granulocytes was not perceptibly affected by the antileukemic drugs . oral granulocyte counts provide a noninvasive method for monitoring the onset and recovery of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression and granulocytopenia in patients with leukemia . 
melanocytic hyperplasia of the oral mucosa . lesions that exhibit melanocytic hyperplasia are uncommon in the oral mucosa . they are even more rare than the various morphologic types of nevomelanocytic lesions . this article reports the clinicopathologic features of oral lesions diagnosed as lentigo simplex , junctional lentigo ( " jentigo " ) , atypical melanocytic hyperplasia ( melanoma in situ ) , and melanocanthoma . the proper terminology for these lesions is also discussed . 
ectopic thyroid tissue in the submandibular region . this report describes an unusual location of ectopic thyroid gland tissue . a growth in the left submandibular area was surgically excised , and the microscopic examination of the specimen revealed thyroid tissue with colloid goiter . because this entity can not be clinically distinguished from a salivary gland tumor , ectopic thyroid tissue should be considered in the differential diagnosis of swellings involving the submandibular area . 
blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas . a case of blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome with oral hemangiomas is reported . attention is directed to this syndrome because , although rare , it is usually associated with oral lesions . the blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome should always be considered a possibility in patients with oral hemangiomas and bluish skin nodules . 
nipple discharge in women . is it cause for concern ? nipple discharge is one of the most common breast complaints in women . galactorrhea ( milky discharge ) may occur during pregnancy or breast-feeding or as a result of drug therapy , hypothyroidism , or hyperthyroidism . nonbloody discharge is most common and is usually benign . bloody discharge should be considered a sign of cancer until proved otherwise . persistent galactorrhea and nonbloody discharge can be treated by transecting the mammary ducts . simple mastectomy may be appropriate in patients with persistent bloody discharge who have a strong family history of breast cancer . 
postangiographic femoral artery injuries : nonsurgical repair with us-guided compression ultrasound-guided compression repair ( ugcr ) of catheterization-related femoral artery injuries was evaluated as a possible new imaging-guided interventional procedure . thirty-nine femoral artery injuries ( 35 pseudoaneurysms , four arteriovenous fistulas ) were detected with color doppler flow imaging in patients with enlarging groin hematomas and/or groin bruits 6 hours to 14 days after catheterization procedures . ugcr was not performed in 10 patients due to spontaneous thrombosis ( n = 4 ) , infection ( n = 1 ) or skin ischemia ( n = 1 ) , unsuitable anatomy ( n = 3 ) , or excessive discomfort ( n = 1 ) . the remaining 29 patients underwent a full trial of compression therapy , and the lesion was eliminated in 27 . follow-up color flow scans were obtained after 24-72 hours in all 27 successful cases and at 1-15 months in 19 ; no recurrences or complications occurred . ugcr for acute injuries is safe and technically simple and is promising as a cost-effective , first-line treatment for uncomplicated catheterization-related femoral artery injuries . ugcr is probably not appropriate for long-standing injuries . 
two urokinase dose regimens in native arterial and graft occlusions : initial results of a prospective , randomized clinical trial . the effects of two urokinase ( uk ) dose regimens on lysis time , lytic success , primary clinical success , and frequency of complications of peripheral thrombolysis were compared . seventy-two intraarterial uk infusions were performed by means of standard catheter-directed infusion techniques in 63 patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial or bypass graft occlusions . patients were prospectively randomized to high-dose ( 250,000 u/h for 4 hours and then 125,000 u/h ) or low-dose ( 50,000 u/h ) regimens . the mean time to complete lysis was 20.8 , 26.0 , 16.5 , and 18.2 hours for the high-dose artery , low-dose artery , high-dose graft , and low-dose graft groups , respectively ( p was not significant ) . respective mean infusion durations were 27.1 , 35.4 , 22.2 , and 25.3 hours . clinical success was achieved in 65 % -85 % of cases . the frequency of complications was equivalent between groups , except for a higher frequency of minor bleeding complications in the high-dose group . the two urokinase dose regimens studied were equally effective in enabling peripheral thrombolysis . 
gallbladder perforation and bile leakage : percutaneous treatment . three patients with spontaneous gallbladder perforation and one with an iatrogenic bile leak causing bile peritonitis were treated successfully by means of percutaneous catheter drainage . three patients had cholelithiasis as the cause of perforation ; the fourth patient had previously undergone gallstone dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether lavage and developed bile peritonitis a few hours after removal of the catheter . in three patients , a percutaneous cholecystostomy catheter provided successful decompression ; in the fourth patient , drainage was performed with a percutaneous sump catheter in the subhepatic space adjacent to the gallbladder . no specific complications occurred . follow-up was performed at 1 , 12 , 22 , and 59 months , respectively . to date , one of the four patients has undergone elective cholecystectomy ( 1 month after drainage ) . the remainder of the patients are asymptomatic . this preliminary experience suggests that the severe complication of gallbladder perforation and bile leakage may be treated , at least temporarily , by means of percutaneous drainage . 
peripheral arterial occlusive disease : prospective comparison of mr angiography and color duplex us with conventional angiography . conventional angiography , two-dimensional inflow magnetic resonance ( mr ) angiography , and color duplex ultrasound ( us ) were performed on 12 patients in a blinded , prospective study . the ability to grade arterial lesions and plan revascularization interventions were compared . arterial lesions were categorized as nonsignificant ( 0 % -49 % diameter reduction ) or significant ( 50 % -100 % diameter reduction ) . determination of nonsignificant and significant lesions with mr angiography was in agreement with that at conventional angiography in 100 of 140 lesions ( 71 % ) . agreement between results of conventional angiography and color duplex us occurred with 114 of 123 infrainguinal lesions ( 93 % ) . twenty-one vascular interventions were planned by using conventional angiography ; there was agreement with color duplex us in 11 cases and mr angiography in five . color duplex us performed well in the assessment of infrainguinal disease but was limited in the evaluation of iliac segments because of nonvisualization . the iliac region was visualized in more patients with mr angiography than with color duplex us , but image quality with mr angiography was inconsistent . strategies to improve mr angiography of the peripheral vasculature merit further study . 
quantification of vascular stenosis with color doppler flow imaging : in vitro investigations . the accuracy of quantifying the degree of vascular stenosis with color doppler flow imaging ( 7.5-mhz , linear array system ) was determined in an experimental study carried out on six concentric and five eccentric model stenoses ( cross-sectional area reduction , 13.4 % -93.8 % ) . the measurements were made with use of pulsatile flow at four different flow rates ( 70.8-339 .0 ml/min ) . the degree of stenosis was calculated from the ratio of prestenotic to intrastenotic flow velocity . the most exact measurement of the degree of stenosis could be achieved with doppler spectral analysis by determining the maximum peak systolic velocity ( r = .994 , y = 0.98 x - 3.2 ) . with the velocity values derived only from the color-coded image , it was also possible to find the most exact degree of stenosis ( r = .995 , y = 0.99 x - 2.9 ) . for quantification of stenosis , pre - and intrastenotic doppler spectral analysis is no longer necessary if the stenosis can be imaged sufficiently with color doppler . 
fungal pulmonary infections after bone marrow transplantation : evaluation with radiography and ct . the authors reviewed 55 pairs of chest radiographs and computed tomographic ( ct ) studies obtained in 33 febrile bone marrow transplant ( bmt ) recipients . the images were read separately , without knowledge of the clinical diagnosis . twenty-one episodes of fungal infection were documented . one chest radiograph showed a pneumonia-like opacity , and 17 showed nodular opacities , five with cavitation . in 20 of 21 episodes , ct showed nodules with cavitation ( n = 7 ) , halo ( n = 4 ) , hazy margin ( n = 5 ) , air bronchogram ( n = 2 ) , cluster of fluffy nodules ( n = 1 ) , or sharp margin ( n = 1 ) . in none of the nine bacteremic episodes , however , were there opacities on chest radiographs or ct studies . ct studies demonstrating complicated nodules in febrile bmt patients strongly suggest a fungal infection , whereas negative ct studies suggest bacteremia or non-filamentous fungal infection of nonpulmonary origin . ct appears to add useful information to radiographic analysis during the assessment of febrile episodes in bmt patients , especially when invasive diagnostic procedures pose a high risk . 
pancreatic transplantation : radiologic evaluation of vascular complications . transplantation of the pancreas is an increasingly common therapeutic option for preventing or delaying complications of type i diabetes mellitus . the authors studied the relative roles of various radiologic examinations in diagnosing vascular complications in these grafts including arterial and venous thrombosis , stenosis , and anastomotic leak ( the most common vascular factors that necessitate pancreatectomy of the transplant ) , as defined with pathologic or arteriographic data . the results of 78 scintigraphic flow studies , 40 abdominal and pelvic computed tomographic ( ct ) scans , 27 sonograms , and eight color doppler studies were evaluated in 52 patients who received a total of 27 cadaveric and 26 living-donor grafts over a 12-year period . these results were correlated with the data from 45 gross and microscopic pathologic studies and 37 arteriograms to determine their relative value in enabling detection of graft thrombosis and other vascular complications . scintigraphy , ct , sonography , and color doppler were all sensitive in detection of generalized graft abnormalities but lacked specificity in defining the underlying etiologic factors . 
antropyloric muscle thickness at us in infants : what is normal ? the authors reviewed the ultrasonographic ( us ) images and medical records of 145 consecutive infants who were seen for evaluation of the upper gastrointestinal tract because of chronic vomiting and/or regurgitation . at us , the antropyloric muscle of each patient was measured in the midlongitudinal plane . on the basis of this measurement , the patients were divided into the following categories : group 1 ( 1-2 mm ; 99 patients ) , group 2 ( greater than or equal to 3 mm ; 40 patients ) , and group 3 ( 2 - less than 3 mm ; six patients ) . patients in group 1 were considered to have normal antropyloric muscle thickness , those in group 2 had abnormal thickness , and those in group 3 had muscle thickness that was not definitely normal or abnormal . the final clinical diagnoses for all of the infants in the three groups confirmed the authors ' initial impressions that antropyloric muscle thickness of less than 2 mm was anatomically normal , muscle measuring 3 mm or greater was abnormal and diagnostic for pyloric stenosis , and muscle from 2 to less than 3 mm was abnormal but not specifically diagnostic for pyloric stenosis . two of the six patients in group 3 eventually were diagnosed as having pyloric stenosis ; thus , the authors believe that only those patients with antropyloric muscle less than 2 mm thick should be considered unequivocably normal . 
lumbar spinal nerves in the neural foramen : mr appearance . the appearance of the proximal lumbar spinal nerves at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging has not , to the authors ' knowledge , been described . mr images and exactly corresponding sections obtained from four cadavers by means of a freezing microtome were correlated to characterize the mr appearance of the proximal spinal nerves . the junction of the dorsal and ventral rami with the dorsal and ventral roots consists of a group of six to 15 fascicles measuring 2-6 mm in length . these fascicles appear in mr images obtained with short repetition times as small foci of lower signal intensity than that of surrounding fat . the proximal spinal nerve and its relationship to the intervertebral disk and osseous margins of the neural foramen can be demonstrated effectively with mr imaging . 
osteonecrosis of the knee after arthroscopic surgery : diagnosis with mr imaging . spontaneous osteonecrosis about the knee typically is a disease of the elderly characterized by an acute onset of pain . the exact cause of this condition has long been debated , although a causative relationship between meniscal tears and spontaneous osteonecrosis about the knee has been postulated . seven patients with knee pain , meniscal tears , and chondromalacia without initial evidence of osteonecrosis at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging underwent arthroscopic surgery with meniscal recontouring or repair and cartilage shaving . these patients returned within 2-14 months with recurrent pain in the treated knee . mr imaging then demonstrated abnormalities consistent with osteonecrosis . osteonecrosis of the femoral condyle or tibial plateau may be a late sequela of meniscal injury in association with chondromalacia and arthroscopic surgery . this diagnosis should be suspected in patients with recurrent knee pain after arthroscopic repair of meniscal tears . the precise relationship of this pattern of osteonecrosis to that previously described as spontaneous requires further investigation . 
maternal predictors of fetal demise in trauma during pregnancy . trauma complicates 6 to 7 per cent of all pregnancies , but fetal demise secondary to maternal trauma occurs much less frequently . this study was done to analyze the incidence of fetal demise as a function of 21 maternal characteristics determined within the first 24 hours after trauma . nine instances of fetal demise were identified from 73 pregnant patients with trauma admitted to four level i trauma centers from a combined data base of 30,000 patients . maternal factors examined by logistic regression were injury severity score ( iss ) , trauma score ( ts ) , abbreviated injury scale ( ais ) , fluid requirements in the initial 24 hours , systolic blood pressure ( sbp ) , heart rate ( hr ) , hemoglobin , hematocrit and arterial blood gas analysis . fetal demise was found to be associated with increasing iss , increasing face and abdominal ais , increasing fluid requirements , maternal acidosis and maternal hypoxia . standard maternal laboratory and physiologic parameters , such as hemoglobin and hematocrit , oxygen and hemoglobin saturation , partial pressure of carbon dioxide , sbp and hr were not predictive . the ts was also found to be nonpredictive . 
carcinoma of the head of the pancreas . optimal treatment for unresectable carcinoma of the pancreas remains controversial . this study was done to examine the relationship between perioperative jaundice and postoperative morbidity , and type of palliative biliary bypass and postoperative morbidity and jaundice clearance . seventy-six patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas were studied . forty-nine patients underwent one of four different types of palliative bypass : 1 , cholecystojejunostomy ( n = 22 ) ; 2 , choledochojejunostomy ( n = 11 ) ; 3 , choledochoduodenostomy ( n = 9 ) , and 4 , cholecystoduodenostomy ( n = 7 ) . age , sex and preoperative health status were similar for all operative groups , as well as for those with and without postoperative morbidity . the postoperative complication rate was 33 per cent and there was one postoperative death . length of preoperative jaundice and peak preoperative bilirubin levels were independent of morbidity . postoperative morbidity was similar for each type of bypass used and no significant difference was found when cholecystoenteric ( 1 and 4 ) and choledochoenteric ( 2 and 3 ) bypass were compared . the results of this study support the view that postoperative morbidity is not directly related to the presence of jaundice preoperatively . furthermore , the rate of jaundice clearance and the occurrence of postoperative complications are not dependent on the type of bypass used . 
trends in thirty years of vaginal hysterectomy . vaginal hysterectomy , as currently performed at the university of vienna , was first described by halban in 1932 . from 1955 to 1985 , a total of 9,967 hysterectomies were performed . the vaginal route was used for 6,078 ( 60.9 per cent ) of these procedures . sixty-four per cent of the women operated upon were multiparous , 27 per cent were uniparous and 8 per cent were nulliparous . a comparison of the periods 1955 to 1975 and 1976 to 1985 revealed the following trends : the incidence of uterine myomas ( 30.6 to 27.1 per cent ) , in situ carcinoma of the cervix ( 6.5 to 7.9 per cent ) and endometrial carcinoma ( 1.4 to 0.6 per cent ) remained largely constant . in the past decade , indications for positional abnormalities ( uterine descent and prolapse ) were encountered more often ( 27.6 to 41.6 per cent ) than in the first observation period , while the incidence of recurrent metrorrhagia was found to decline ( 33.9 to 22.8 per cent ) . the most common complications included hemorrhage during the operation , lesions of the bladder , hemorrhage until 48 hours after surgical treatment and hemorrhage from days 2 to 14 postoperatively ( around 0.5 per cent , respectively ) . during the second observation period , no postoperative fistulas developed . two instances of tubal prolapse were seen . laparotomy was done in four of 6,078 instances . two patients died of septic complications . whenever possible , we prefer vaginal hysterectomy because of its low complication rate , low mortality rate and low postoperative morbidity . 
effect of portasystemic shunts on subsequent transplantation of the liver . portasystemic ( ps ) shunts have been regarded as a relative contraindication to hepatic transplantation ( ht ) because of the potential for increased technical difficulties during the transplant operation . we compared operative blood loss , morbidity and mortality in 27 patients with ps shunts and 147 patients with no shunts ( ns ) who underwent ht . the ps shunt group included 12 portocaval ( pc ) , eight mesocaval , four central splenorenal and four distal splenorenal shunts . the ps shunt and ns groups were similar with respect to age , preoperative medical status and abo blood group matching between donors and recipients . there were no significant differences in the mean ( plus or minus s.d. ) intraoperative blood transfusion ( 9.1 + / - 7.6 versus 9.2 + / - 11.0 units ) , mean ( plus or minus s.d. ) duration of anesthesia ( 8.1 + / - 1.4 versus 7.8 + / - 1.5 hours ) and operative mortality ( 7 versus 11 per cent ) between the ps shunt and ns groups , respectively . complications of the biliary tract were significantly higher in the ps shunt group ( 22.0 versus 5.4 per cent , p less than 0.01 ) but they did not increase the mortality rate . we conclude that a prior ps shunt should not influence the decision to accept patients for ht . ps shunts remain a reasonable surgical option for patients with cirrhosis and variceal hemorrhage ( refractory to sclerotherapy ) who , by virtue of good hepatic function , do not merit immediate ht . 
modified technique of pringle 's maneuver in resection of the liver . crushing of the hepatic parenchyma with hepatic clamps to minimize blood loss during resection of the liver leads to mechanical damage of hepatocytes . pringle 's maneuver may precipitate liver failure by hepatic warm ischemia as well . therefore , we controlled bleeding from the surface of the resection by using light compression on the hepatic parenchyma with a band while applying a hepatic arterial clamp at the hepatic hilus . this vascular control method can be done because the portal pressure is about one-tenth of the hepatic artery pressure and provides an efficient and harmless transection of the liver . 
the dutch experience in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of narrowed saphenous veins used for aortocoronary arterial bypass . of 19,994 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedures performed in the netherlands between april 1980 and january 1989 , the long-term follow-up of 454 patients who underwent angioplasty of greater than or equal to 1 saphenous vein bypass graft was reviewed . in 46 % of patients single graft angioplasty was attempted , and in 54 % of patients sequential graft angioplasty was attempted . the clinical primary success rate was 90 % . in-hospital mortality was 0.7 % , 2.8 % of patients sustained a procedural myocardial infarction , and 1.3 % of patients underwent emergency bypass surgery . after a follow-up period of 5 years , 74 % of patients were alive , and 26 % were alive and event-free ( no myocardial infarction , no repeat bypass surgery or repeat angioplasty ) . in patients in whom the initial angioplasty attempt was unsuccessful , only 3 % were event-free at 5 years , versus 27 % of successfully dilated patients . the time interval between the angioplasty attempt and previous surgery was a significant predictor for 5-year event-free survival . the event-free survival rates for patients who had bypass surgery 1 year before , between 1 and 5 years , and 5 years before angioplasty , were 45 , 25 and 19 % , respectively . less than one-third of patients with previous bypass surgery who had angioplasty of the graft remained event-free after 5 years . in patients needing angioplasty within 1 year after bypass surgery , better long-term results were achieved . 
effects of diltiazem on complications and restenosis after coronary angioplasty . a randomized , placebo-controlled , double-blinded trial was performed to evaluate the usefulness of empiric therapy with a calcium antagonist in patients who undergo coronary angioplasty . a total of 201 patients were randomized to placebo or to high-dose diltiazem ( mean dose , 329 mg/day ) . treatment began 24 hours before angioplasty . restenosis was assessed by percent area stenosis as determined by quantitative angiographic techniques before , immediately and 1 year after angioplasty . all patients also received aspirin and dipyridamole before angioplasty . heparin and verapamil were administered intravenously during the procedure . the 2 groups were similar with respect to age , extent of coronary artery disease , smoking history , and baseline lipid levels . procedural complications , including death ( 1 vs 1 ) , q-wave infarction ( 0 vs 3 ) , acute occlusion ( 5 vs 5 ) and focal spasm ( 0 vs 0 ) , were not significantly different in the diltiazem and placebo patients , respectively . freedom from all acute complications was noted in 85 % of patients in both groups . one-year angiographic follow-up was obtained in 60 % of patients . restenosis rates were similar : 36 % in the diltiazem group and 32 % in the placebo group ( p = 0.30 ) . the incidence of late cardiac events ( death , q-wave myocardial infarction , recurrent angina or coronary bypass graft surgery ) was similar in the 2 groups . thus , diltiazem did not influence the overall restenosis rate or prevent late events after coronary angioplasty . 
sudden cardiac death while wearing a holter monitor . the holter tapes of 61 patients ( 46 men , mean age + / - standard deviation 65 + / - 11 years ) with sudden cardiac death while being monitored were analyzed . thirty-eight patients were known to have coronary artery disease , 5 had cardiomyopathy , and 7 had aortic valve disease . etiology remained unknown in 11 patients . mean new york heart association functional class was 2.5 + / - 0.7 . thirty patients had received antiarrhythmic drugs and 32 had received digitalis . sudden death occurred at rest in 73 % . in the hours before death , repetitive ventricular arrhythmias were found in 50 patients ( 82 % ) , with atrial fibrillation in 34 % . patients with bradyarrhythmic death ( 18 % ) had less complex ventricular activity compared to patients with tachyarrhythmic death ( p less than 0.01 ) . lethal arrhythmias -- monomorphic ventricular tachycardia , polymorphic ventricular tachycardia , torsades de pointes , primary ventricular fibrillation , and 1:1 conducting atrial tachycardia -- were found in 26 ( 43 % ) , 15 ( 25 % ) , 5 ( 8 % ) , 3 ( 5 % ) , and 1 patient , respectively . the coupling interval of the final ventricular tachycardia correlated inversely with the initial frequency of ventricular tachycardia ( p less than 0.05 ) . for patients with tachyarrhythmic death , an increase of heart rate within the last 3 hours was noted ( 83 vs 89 beats/min , p less than 0.05 ) . ventricular premature complexes and the proportion of patients with greater than 2 couplets and greater than 2 triplets increased significantly only within the last hour before death . 
late results of the left subcostal approach for automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation . a left subcostal surgical approach was used to implant an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator ( aicd ) in 48 patients with a history of nonfatal cardiac arrest or documented ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation . electrophysiologic studies before surgery yielded induction of monomorphic or polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in 40 patients , whereas 8 were noninducible . mean ( + / - standard deviation ) age was 58 + / - 12 years . mean ejection fraction was 33 + / - 16 % . thirty patients ( 63 % ) had documented coronary artery disease ; 14 patients ( 29 % ) had previous coronary bypass surgery . the mean intraoperative defibrillation threshold was 13.8 + / - 6.6 j. in 6 patients , an adjunctive right minithoracotomy was used to position 1 patch over the right atrium and thus optimize the defibrillation threshold . patients with prior exposure to amiodarone and previous coronary bypass surgery had higher defibrillation thresholds at implantation . two perioperative deaths occurred . there were no infections . long-term follow-up yielded a 1 - and 5-year survival of 0.88 and 0.58 , respectively , and a freedom from sudden cardiac death of 1.0 and 0.97 , respectively . the nonthoracotomy , left subcostal surgical approach is safe and effective , provides adequate defibrillation thresholds in most patients , and yields long-term survival comparable to other implantation techniques . 
beneficial effect of atrial pacing in severe acute aortic regurgitation and role of m-mode echocardiography in determining the optimal pacing interval . the effect of atrial pacing on cardiac performance was assessed in 11 men ( aged 20 to 64 years ) with recent-onset severe aortic regurgitation ( ar ) , all of whom had diastolic closure of the mitral valve on the echocardiogram . thermodilution cardiac outputs were determined , and aortic , left ventricular and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures recorded . once baseline recordings were completed , the pacing rate was increased by increments of 10 beats/min ( 70 , 80 , 90 ... ) to a maximal rate of 140 beats/min . the optimal pacing interval , obtained from hemodynamic data , was defined as that at which the lowest filling pressure was associated with the highest cardiac index . this was then compared with a pacing interval derived from the r wave of the electrocardiogram to the diastolic mitral closing point on the m-mode echocardiogram . such an interval would shorten diastole without affecting forward mitral flow . atrial pacing improved the overall hemodynamic state in all patients ; the most favorable hemodynamics were achieved at heart rates between 110 and 130 beats/min ( mean : 120 + / - 8 ) . at the optimal rate , left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 46 + / - 7 to 23 + / - 12 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) , and the pulmonary arterial wedge pressure from 28 + / - 8 to 16 + / - 7 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) , while the cardiac index increased from 2.34 + / - 0.46 to 2.63 + / - 0.49 liters/min/m2 ( p less than 0.01 ) . the mean difference between the optimal pacing interval determined from the hemodynamic data and the interval derived from the echocardiogram was 18 + / - 21 ms. 
simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse and systolic anterior motion in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . this report describes the simultaneous occurrence of mitral valve prolapse ( mvp ) and systolic anterior motion ( sam ) in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( hc ) . in 25 patients ( aged 7 to 62 years , mean 29 ) , 15 ( 60 % ) of whom were male , distal portions of the anterior or posterior mitral leaflets approached or made midsystolic contact with the ventricular septum , whereas the proximal portion of the mitral leaflets showed marked cephalad excursion into the left atrium , 5 to 15 mm beyond the mitral annular plane . three mitral valves that were available for gross visual inspection were not morphologically typical of patients with primary mvp . clinical features and natural history ( 1 to 14 years [ mean 6 ] of follow-up ) , cardiac dimensions , and distribution of left ventricular hypertrophy defined in the study patients did not appear to differ distinctly from those in the overall referral population of patients with hc evaluated at our institution . hence , patients with hc may show a striking pattern of mitral valvular motion involving sam into the left ventricular outflow tract , as well as mvp ; this prolapse motion is probably due to anatomic disproportion between the mitral valve and the small left ventricular cavity rather than to the coexistence of 2 separate disease entities . such patients further define the great diversity evident within the broad clinical spectrum of hc . 
intraosseous infusion of dobutamine and isoproterenol . intraosseous infusion has been advocated as an emergency route in sick infants and children when intravenous access is not readily obtainable . dobutamine hydrochloride and isoproterenol hydrochloride are useful emergency drugs that have not been studied when administered into the bone marrow . in a swine model , we compared the physiologic responses ( heart rate , arterial pressure , and cardiac output ) of dobutamine and isoproterenol infusions delivered intravenously and intraosseously during 20-minute intervals . we observed statistically significant effects of both dobutamine and isoproterenol delivered by the intraosseous route . in addition , the effects resulting from intraosseous infusion were statistically similar to those resulting from intravenous administration of these drugs . we conclude that the intraosseous infusion of dobutamine and isoproterenol is an effective and useful method for emergency administration of these medications . 
effectiveness of growth-promoting therapies . comparison among growth hormone , clonidine , and levodopa . the ability of growth hormone , clonidine , and levodopa to stimulate growth was compared in short and slowly growing children randomly assigned to different treatment regimens for 6 months . there were 10 children in each group , and 10 additional subjects served as controls . growth hormone improved mean height velocity , height velocity sd score , and height sd score . the mean height velocity and height velocity sd score were significantly increased by clonidine , while levodopa only enhanced the mean height velocity sd score of the treated children . moreover , in nine patients ( 90 % ) receiving growth hormone , two ( 20 % ) receiving clonidine , and one ( 10 % ) receiving levodopa , the height velocity was raised by more than 2 cm/y . the increments in height velocity and height sd score were greatest in the growth hormone group . clonidine induced an increase in height velocity significantly different from that in control children only . in the control group , there was a significant reduction of height sd score with time . 
retinopathy of prematurity in infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease . we undertook a study of premature infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease to determine whether these infants develop retinopathy of prematurity despite a persistent hypoxemic state . using the computerized registry of the neonatal intensive care unit of vanderbilt university medical center , nashville , tenn , we identified six premature infants ( less than 37 weeks ' gestational age , with birth weights of 1100 to 2050 g ) with cyanotic congenital heart disease who survived the neonatal period and underwent ophthalmologic evaluation . review of their charts revealed that three of six infants developed retinopathy of prematurity ( two had grade 1 and one had grade 3 disease ) , but none required treatment . our data support the findings of other investigators that elevated arterial oxygen tension is not the sole factor leading to the development of retinopathy of prematurity . premature infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease can develop retinopathy of prematurity despite persistent hypoxemia . cyanotic premature infants should be screened for retinopathy of prematurity with the same thoroughness as other premature infants . 
unsuspected cocaine exposure in young children . objective : to determine the prevalence of cocaine exposure among preschool children with clinically unsuspected signs and/or symptoms . design : prevalence study . setting : pediatric emergency department in an inner-city hospital . participants : 250 children aged 2 weeks to 5 years who underwent urine assays for cocaine prior to discharge from the emergency department . interventions : none . measurements/main results : six ( 2.4 % ) of the 250 urine assays ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.5 % to 4.3 % ) were positive for benzoylecgonine , the major urinary cocaine metabolite . four of the positive urine assays were from children younger than 1 year and all children with positive urine assays were younger than 24 months . none of these children presented with a complaint or was identified as having clinical problems currently associated with childhood exposure to cocaine . possible exposure routes include breastfeeding , intentional administration , accidental ingestion of cocaine or cocaine-contaminated household dust via normal hand-to-mouth activity , and passive inhalation of " crack " vapors . conclusion : among the inner-city children served by this hospital , significant numbers of infants and young children are being exposed to cocaine , and this exposure occurs in a clinically unsuspected population . 
late cholangitis after successful surgical repair of biliary atresia . bacterial cholangitis is a frequent complication of successful surgical repair of biliary atresia , occurring in 93 % of patients before the age of 1 year , but thought to be rare after 2 years of age . among 76 children free of jaundice more than 5 years after operation , four presented with late cholangitis ( 7 to 13.5 years old ) , consisting of fever , jaundice , and abdominal pain with biochemical features of an inflammatory process and cholestasis . liver biopsy specimens consistently demonstrated histological features of cholangitis , growth of microorganism , or both . cholangitis subsided spontaneously in one patient or in response to intravenous administration of antibiotics . cholangiography consistently demonstrated biliary abnormalities but no definite obstruction to the bilioenteric anastomosis . all the children had good hepatic function 3 weeks to 4 years after the episode of cholangitis . these results suggest that cholangitis may occur several years after surgery but does not seem to alter prognosis . 
chronic neutropenia during childhood . a 13-year experience in a single institution . to evaluate the clinical course and characteristics of children with chronic neutropenia , we reviewed the charts of all such patients seen at our center during a 13-year period . a total of 50 patients with chronic neutropenia were identified . three patients had documented congenital neutropenia , and two siblings had cyclic neutropenia . the remaining 45 children had chronic neutropenia of unknown origin . all children except two had a remarkably benign course despite markedly reduced granulocyte counts . of six girls in this group who had abscess or cellulitis of the labia majora , it was a presenting manifestation in three . resolution of neutropenia was documented in 23 ( 62 % ) of 37 patients for whom follow-up information was available , with a median duration of neutropenia of 19 months . no differences were evident between patients with positive antineutrophil antibody test results and those in whom the test yielded negative results or was not performed . chronic neutropenia in childhood is a relatively uncommon entity , characterized by a benign course and eventual resolution in the majority of patients . 
management of hypertension and cardiovascular risk . blood pressure reduction in hypertensive patients is a surrogate for the real therapeutic goal of reducing the risks consequent to hypertension . this surrogate is convenient but its use may have important therapeutic implications . results of treatment with new antihypertensive agents , data from clinical trials , and insights into underlying mechanisms are reviewed . the overall success of antihypertensive therapy has been undeniable , but has reduced minimally the frequency of atherosclerosis and coronary events ; metabolic disarray resulting from the agents used , especially thiazides and beta blockers , may have contributed to this . electrolyte abnormalities predispose to malignant arrhythmias and sudden death during myocardial infarction . left ventricular hypertrophy , a chief risk factor for coronary events , arrhythmias , and heart failure , responds selectively to antihypertensive agents . similarly , progression of renal injury may be sensitive to the agents used . obesity and hypertension frequently coexist . evidence is growing that atherogenic abnormalities common in obese patients , such as insulin resistance , also occur in the nonobese patient and are sensitive to the antihypertensive agent selected . 
a prospective , randomized study of three surgical techniques for treatment of acute ruptures of the anterior cruciate ligament . treatment of acl tears is controversial . recent reports on nonoperative treatment have shown poor results . results after primary repair have deteriorated with time , leading to augmentation procedures that seem to have improved the results . however , there have been few prospective , randomized studies in this field . our goal was to compare primary repair with a bone-patellar tendon-bone augmentation method and with a new method using the kennedy ligament augmentation device . one hundred fifty patients aged 16 to 50 , all of whom had acute acl tears , were randomized with the closed envelope method to one of three groups treated with open surgical methods . fifty patients were treated with primary repair , 50 patients with patellar tendon augmentation , and 50 patients were augmented with the kennedy ligament augmentation device . all patients were operated on within 10 days of injury . the rehabilitation protocol was identical , consisting of a long leg cast for 2 weeks , followed by a brace with no weight-bearing and limited motion for 6 weeks . the patients were followed prospectively by one surgeon ( le ) using the lysholm functional score , tegner activity level score , clinical evaluation and kt-1000 arthrometer at 6 months , 1 , and 2 years . three patients were lost to followup . there was no age or activity level difference between the groups . sport activities led to 85 % of the injuries , with skiing , soccer , and european handball representing 80 % of injuries . all three groups reduced their activity level the 1st year . the repair group remained at the same level after 2 years . 
the prolonged burner syndrome . over the course of a single football season , six players evaluated by the medical staff had burners that displayed a prolonged neurologic recovery . these players were examined and subsequently evaluated with isokinetic testing and electrodiagnostic studies to elucidate better the short-term natural history of the prolonged burner syndrome . evidence of muscular weakness at 72 hours postinjury best correlated with positive electrodiagnostic findings . no correlation was found between the initial physical examination findings and the results of electrodiagnostic testing . isokinetic strength evaluation demonstrated many relative strength differences that were difficult to discern with manual muscle testing . the return of a player to athletic competition following this injury should largely be based on the clinical examination . 
postarthroscopy analgesia with bupivacaine . a prospective , randomized , blinded evaluation . the analgesic effect of intraarticular bupivacaine injected at the conclusion of knee arthroscopy done under general anesthesia was investigated in a prospective , randomized , and blinded fashion . pain scores , the use of analgesic medications , crutch use , weight-bearing , activity level , and difficulty sleeping the night after surgery were all unaffected by the use of bupivacaine . the apparent lack of effect is most likely due to rapid clearance from the knee , leaving only a transient , 1 to 2 hours of potential benefit . in this study , the patients were already quite comfortable during this time period due to the routine use of intraoperative narcotics . the preoperative level of knee discomfort was found to be a major determinant of postoperative discomfort . other much less important factors were synovial and chondral shaving , sex of the patient , and experience of the surgeon . 
cauda equina syndrome after continuous spinal anesthesia . four cases of cauda equina syndrome occurring after continuous spinal anesthesia are reported . in all four cases , there was evidence of a focal sensory block and , to achieve adequate analgesia , a dose of local anesthetic was given that was greater than that usually administered with a single-injection technique . we postulate that the combination of maldistribution and a relatively high dose of local anesthetic resulted in neurotoxic injury . suggestions that may reduce the potential for neurotoxicity are discussed . use of a lower concentration and a " ceiling " or maximum dose of local anesthetic to establish the block should be considered . if maldistribution of local anesthetic is suspected ( as indicated by a focal sensory block ) , the use of maneuvers to increase the spread of local anesthetic is recommended . if such maneuvers prove unsuccessful , the technique should be abandoned . 
should you cancel the operation when a child has an upper respiratory tract infection ? cancelling an operation when a child has an upper respiratory tract infection ( uri ) is not always feasible or practical . yet we know very little about the additional risk posed by a uri occurring in a child undergoing anesthesia and surgery . using a large prospectively collected pediatric anesthesia database , we studied 1283 children with a preoperative uri and 20,876 children without a uri . we found that children with a uri were two to seven times more likely to experience respiratory-related adverse events during the intraoperative , recovery room , and postoperative phases of their operative experience . although these children also experienced significant disruptions in temperature regulation , they were not at risk for any other deleterious events . the elevation in risk after uri as compared with children without a uri was not explained by differences in age , physical status scores , surgical site , and emergency or elective status . however , if a child had a uri and had endotracheal anesthesia , the risk of a respiratory complication increased 11-fold ( 95 % confidence intervals 6.8 , 18.1 ) . we conclude that the administration of general anesthesia to children with a uri is not benign and that these children require more observation/management in all perioperative phases of their surgical procedure . 
continuous postoperative regional analgesia by nerve sheath block for amputation surgery -- a pilot study . a pilot study of continuous postoperative regional analgesia by nerve sheath block for lower limb amputation is presented . at the time of exposure of sciatic or posterior tibial nerve trunks during above - or below-knee amputations in 11 patients with asa physical status iii or iv , a catheter was introduced directly into the transected nerve sheath for continuous infusion of 0.25 % bupivacaine at a rate of 10 ml/h for 72 h. effective amputation stump analgesia was obtained , significantly reducing the need for on-demand narcotic analgesics during this time to a mean dose equivalent of 1.4 mg of morphine compared with a retrospective control group who received the equivalent of a mean dose of 18.4 mg of morphine ( p less than 0.0001 ) . no complications related to the technique were observed . a follow-up of the group receiving continuous postoperative regional analgesia for up to 12 mo showed a total absence of phantom pain despite the presence of preoperative limb pain . 
role of experience in the response to simulated critical incidents . eight experienced anesthesiologists ( faculty or private practitioners ) were presented with the same simulated critical incidents that had previously been presented to 19 anesthesia trainees . the detection and correction times for these incidents were measured , as was compliance with advanced cardiac life support ( acls ) guidelines during cardiac arrest , and the occurrence of unplanned incidents . experienced personnel tended to react more rapidly than did trainees , but differences between second-year anesthesia residents ( ca2 ) and experienced anesthesiologists were not statistically significant . there was a high variability in performance between incidents and within each group . unplanned errors and management flaws still occurred with experience subjects . the response to incidents during anesthesia is a complex process that involves multiple levels of cognitive activity and is vulnerable to error regardless of experience . most trainees seemed to acquire adequate response routines by the end of the ca2 year . formal reasoning appeared to play a minor role in responding to intraoperative events , but the exact nature of the anesthesiologist 's cognition remains to be thoroughly investigated . 
low-dose bupivacaine does not improve postoperative epidural fentanyl analgesia in orthopedic patients [ published erratum appears in anesth analg 1991 may ; 72 ( 5 ) :718 ] epidural infusions of 10 micrograms/ml fentanyl combined with low-dose bupivacaine ( 0.1 % ) were compared with epidural infusions of fentanyl alone for postoperative analgesia after total knee joint replacement . there were no detectable differences between the two groups in analgesia ( visual analogue scale ranging between 15 and 40 mm ) , infusion rates ( which averaged 7-9 ml/h ) , or serum fentanyl levels ( which reached 1-2 ng/ml ) . the incidence of side effects , including nausea , vomiting , and pruritus , was also similar . of the patients receiving fentanyl and low-dose bupivacaine , one developed a transient unilateral motor and sensory loss , and one developed significant hypotension and respiratory depression . the addition of low-dose bupivacaine does not improve epidural fentanyl infusion analgesia after knee surgery and may increase morbidity . 
emerging techniques in the diagnosis of sinusitis . in recent years , the high prevalence of chronic sinusitis has been noted in isolation and in association with bronchial asthma , aspirin sensitivity , and perennial rhinitis . many sinus-associated symptoms arise from nasal rather than sinus pathology ; thus , it is important to detect the presence , extent , and nature of any disease within the sinus cavities . conventional plain radiographs have limited sensitivity and have been supplanted by more widespread use of computerized tomography . the role of other modalities such as ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging has not yet been completely determined . other tests such as cytology and endoscopy can detect the presence of infection without the need for invasive antral puncture . practitioners should consider the impact of a negative imaging test on their therapeutic plan and order tests on that basis . 
intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia . we evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen , cow milk beta-lactoglobulin ( blg ) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms . sixteen patients ( 77 % of those with arthralgia ) responded to diet ( rd ) with marked reduction of symptoms ; the others did not respond ( nr ) . ten ( all but one rd with arthralgia ) had increased permeability to blg after oral administration of cow milk . four with high titers of igg to blg showed the highest absorption of blg and the groups with arthralgia showed higher blg levels than those without arthralgia . in all cases , specific ige to cow milk was absent . these data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria , and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet , are related to excess intestinal permeability . the measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction . 
diagnosis of lyme disease based on dermatologic manifestations . lyme disease , or lyme borreliosis , is an infection caused by the spirochete borrelia burgdorferi , which is most commonly transmitted to humans by a tick bite . characterized by early and late phases , lyme disease is a multisystem illness involving the skin , heart , joints , and nervous system . diagnosis is based predominantly on clinical manifestations , the most specific being dermatologic . thus , recognizing the dermatologic manifestations of lyme disease is important for diagnosis and institution of appropriate , effective therapy . approximately 75 % of patients with lyme disease present with the pathognomonic skin lesion erythema migrans , an expanding erythematous lesion . during early infection , secondary erythema migrans lesions or borrelia lymphocytoma may occur . borrelia lymphocytoma commonly presents as an erythematous nodule on the ear lobe or nipple . during late infection , acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans , an erythematous , atrophic plaque unique to lyme disease may appear ; it has been described in about 10 % of patients with lyme disease in europe . fibrotic nodules associated with acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans as well as other sclerotic and atrophic lesions , such as morphea , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , anetoderma , and atrophoderma of pasini and pierini , have been seen late in the course of lyme disease . in a few cases , other sclerodermatous lesions , such as eosinophilic fasciitis and progressive facial hemiatrophy , have been linked to b. burgdorferi infection . we review the cutaneous lesions associated with lyme disease . 
application of a modified bioassay for monitoring serum teicoplanin and vancomycin in febrile neutropenic patients . teicoplanin is a glycopeptide antibiotic with a mode of action and spectrum of activity similar to those of vancomycin . its efficacy and tolerability as empiric therapy and its pharmacokinetic properties in neutropenic patients are being studied in a double-blinded , randomized trial in comparison with those of vancomycin . we report here a modified agar diffusion bioassay which is suitable for monitoring levels of either teicoplanin or vancomycin in serum during combination therapy with beta-lactams , aminoglycosides , and amphotericin b. serum samples spiked with either teicoplanin or vancomycin gave reproducible results ( mean coefficient of variation , 8.8 % ) regardless of the presence of tobramycin , amikacin , piperacillin , ceftazidime , amphotericin b , or their combinations . among 25 patients who received teicoplanin at a dosing schedule of 6 mg/kg every 24 h intravenously , steady state was reached after 14.2 + / - 4.0 days , and 1-h peak and trough concentrations of teicoplanin in serum at steady state were 40.8 + / - 15.0 and 12.5 + / - 3.2 mg/liter , respectively . in contrast , among 25 patients who received vancomycin at a dosing schedule of 15 mg/kg every 12 h intravenously , steady state was reached by 24 h , and the 1-h peak and trough concentrations in serum were 37.5 + / - 15.6 and 8.3 + / - 3.8 mg/liter , respectively . the elimination half-lives for teicoplanin estimated by two separate approaches agreed closely with each other : 80.5 + / - 21.5 h by an accumulation model ( m. gilbaldi and d. perrier , pharmacokinetics , 2nd ed. , p. 121 , 1982 ) and 87.3 + / - 19.3 h as predicted from the degree of renal function ( m. rowland , clin . pharmacokinetic 18:184 -209 , 1990 ) . these values were 14 - to 15-fold higher than that for vancomycin ( 5.6 + / - 1.8 h ) . 
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in infantile cholestasis . the difficulty of distinguishing surgically correctable causes of conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia in infants from other causes means that some infants may undergo laparotomy and intraoperative cholangiography unnecessarily , and others may be referred for surgery too late . in an attempt to improve the diagnostic accuracy in infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia when standard methods produced equivocal results , we have been using prototype paediatric duodenoscopes ( pjf 7.5 and xpjf 8.0 ; olympus ) to perform endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) . from 159 infants with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia , 11 were referred for ercp , which was performed in nine . in four in whom bile ducts were definitely visualised laparotomy was avoided . operative cholangiography confirmed patent bile ducts in one in whom visualisation had been uncertain . three of four in whom bile ducts were not seen had extrahepatic biliary atresia . visible bile drainage in the fourth excluded atresia . no major complications ensued but there was radiological evidence of gall bladder perforation in one ( common hepatic duct block ) and overinflation with air was a problem until finer cannulae ( wilson-cook ) were introduced . in appropriately selected patients with conjugated hyperbilirubinaemia , ercp with paediatric duodenoscopes in experienced hands may provide useful diagnostic information . 
recurrent wheezy bronchitis and viral respiratory infections fifty four patients aged from 1 to 6 years who had had recurrent attacks of wheezy bronchitis were prospectively followed up for three months to find out if there was an association between different viral respiratory infections and episodes of wheezing . of the 115 episodes of upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms , virus or mycoplasma pneumoniae infection were diagnosed in 52 ( 45 % ) . thirty four of rhinoviruses . the patients had an average of 2.1 episodes of respiratory tract symptoms the total mean ( sd ) duration of which was 30 ( 2 ) days of the 92 days that followed . wheezing occurred during 76 ( 66 % ) of the 115 episodes and during a third of these the patient was admitted to hospital because of severe dyspnoea . wheezing started a mean ( sd ) of 43 ( 7 ) hours after the first symptoms of respiratory infection and persisted for 3.8 ( 4.2 ) days in patients in whom virus infection was diagnosed . the incidence of wheezing was not associated with ige mediated atopy , with positive virological tests , or with fever during virus infection , but was associated with parental smoking and more than one sibling . 
audit of results of operations for infantile pyloric stenosis in a district general hospital because of the proposal that infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis should only be treated by surgeons with an interest in paediatric surgery , we carried out a retrospective study to audit our experience in a district general hospital . forty six infants over a five year period underwent pyloromyotomy . there were no deaths , and 36 infants ( 78 % ) made uneventful recoveries . perforation of the duodenal mucosa occurred during the operation in 11 patients , and eight complications developed in six of these infants . there were seven wound infections , and two patients had vomiting that lasted four days or longer after their operations . there were no long term feeding problems . the results of this study show that such patients can be successfully treated in district general hospitals , and three areas merit special attention : meticulous surgical technique , the use of prophylactic antibiotics , and early graduated feeding . 
bleeding from duodenal lymphangiectasia . an 8 year old girl with recurrent upper gastrointestinal bleeding was found to have localised duodenal lymphangiectasia by fibreoptic endoscopy . she did not show physical signs or laboratory evidence of significant enteric protein loss . a low fat diet seemed to prevent further bleeding . duodenal lymphangiectasia may be associated with gastrointestinal bleeding in children . 
persistence of monosodium urate crystals and low-grade inflammation in the synovial fluid of patients with untreated gout . synovial fluid ( sf ) from 74 asymptomatic knees of patients with gout was analyzed . these patients had never been treated with serum uric acid-lowering agents . sf samples were analyzed for the presence of crystals and for cell counts , using undiluted sf directly in a niebauer cell counting chamber . thirty-seven of the aspirated knees had previously been inflamed , and monosodium urate ( msu ) crystals were seen in sf aspirates from 36 of them ( 97 % ) . of the 37 knees that had never been inflamed , only 8 contained msu crystals ( p less than 0.00001 ) . after reaching the joint , msu crystals will persist in the sf as long as the serum uric acid level has not been lowered by appropriate treatment . in this situation , analysis of sf is an excellent diagnostic test for the intercritical gout . the mean cell count in the 44 sf samples that contained msu crystals was 449/mm3 ( 95 % confidence interval 310-589 ) ; the mean cell count in the 30 sf without msu crystals was 64/mm3 ( 95 % confidence interval 34-95 ) ( p less than 0.00002 ) . the sf samples that contained msu crystals also had a higher percentage of polymorphonuclear leukocytes than those without msu crystals ( p less than 0.002 ) . these data suggest that there is a low-grade inflammation present in the knees of patients with msu crystals , the consequences of which should be investigated . 
local infectious complications following large joint replacement in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate versus those not treated with methotrexate . we performed a 10-year retrospective analysis of the frequency of local postoperative infectious complications in methotrexate ( mtx ) - treated rheumatoid arthritis patients who underwent total joint arthroplasty . sixty patients , who had a total of 92 joint arthroplasties , were receiving mtx . a comparison group of 61 patients with a combined total of 110 total joint arthroplasties were not receiving mtx . the 2 groups were compared for the occurrence of local postoperative infectious complications and poor wound healing . eight patients in the mtx group experienced a total of 8 complications ( 8.7 % of procedures ) . in comparison , 5 patients in the non-mtx group experienced a total of 6 complications ( 5.5 % of procedures ) , a difference that was not statistically significant ( chi 2 = 0.816 , p = 0.366 ) . statistical analysis of many other variables revealed none that could be identified as risk factors for postoperative complications . these results suggest that treatment in the perioperative period with weekly low-dose pulse mtx does not increase the risk of local postoperative infectious complications or poor wound healing in rheumatoid arthritis patients who undergo total joint arthroplasty . 
synovial membrane histology and immunopathology in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis . in vivo effects of antirheumatic drugs . we examined the histologic and immunopathologic features of the synovial membrane of 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 12 patients with osteoarthritis ( oa ) who had undergone total knee arthroplasty . patients were classified into 5 groups according to therapeutic regimen and disease : ra treated with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) , ra treated with nsaids and prednisone , ra treated with nsaids and methotrexate ( mtx ) , oa treated with analgesics , and oa treated with nsaids . there were no significant between-group differences in the percentages or the distribution pattern of the infiltrating t cell subsets ( cd4 , cd8 ) , hla-dr , or interleukin-2 receptor-bearing cells . however , inflammatory indices , which included the thickness of the lining cell layer and the density of the mononuclear cell infiltrate , were significantly higher in the ra patients treated with prednisone and those treated with mtx ( p less than 0.05 ) . similarly , fibrosis was markedly reduced in these 2 groups . the ra patients treated with nsaids alone and the 2 groups of patients with oa demonstrated similar profiles . these data suggest that prednisone and mtx may inhibit the development of fibrosis without altering the subsets of the inflammatory cell population . this observation raises the possibility that the action of these 2 drugs may be partly mediated by the suppression of inflammatory mediators that are responsible for fibroblast activation . 
fatal pulmonary venoocclusive disease secondary to a generalized venulopathy : a new syndrome presenting with facial swelling and pericardial tamponade . we describe a patient who developed fatal pulmonary artery hypertension secondary to diffuse venulitis . this otherwise healthy young woman first presented with generalized venulopathy , with chemosis , facial swelling , pleural effusions , and pericardial tamponade . the symptoms partially responded to steroid therapy , but over a 2-year course , a rapidly progressive and fatal venoocclusive disease developed . no other primary condition was diagnosed , and at autopsy , the patient had striking venulitis throughout , including the pulmonary bed . we believe that this is a unique case of pulmonary hypertension resulting from a generalized venulopathy . 
risk monitoring of randomized trials in emergency medicine : experience of the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii . risk monitoring for the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii , a multicenter , placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of the calcium-entry blocker lidoflazine in the amelioration of brain damage in comatose cardiac-arrest survivors , posed unexpected challenges . concern arose when monitoring of adverse reactions showed an excess of dangerous cardiac arrhythmias , including rearrest , in the lidoflazine group . to ascertain the cause of this problem and determine whether it was ethical for the trial to continue , an in-depth review of data was conducted , outside experts were consulted , and additional data were collected . these efforts suggested possible causes for the problem . existing drug administration protocols for blood pressure control were reinforced , resulting in lower subsequent arrhythmia rates . thus , through an efficient monitoring system , an important problem was uncovered and resolved , allowing the trial to be completed without major changes . 
patient flow in the emergency department : the chest pain patient . prompt treatment of the chest pain patient in the emergency department ( ed ) is crucial . to ensure prompt treatment , identification of factors that delay flow of these patients through the department is essential . to identify factors that delay patient flow through the ed , the authors conducted a prospective study of all chest pain patients , using a time-flow analysis . eighty-eight ( 36 % ) of 245 patients required critical unit admissions and had an average department stay of 3 1/2 hours . flow differences were seen between critical and noncritical care patients . three primary sources of delay were identified : critical unit bed availability , the registration process , and the role of the unit admitting resident . additional findings confirmed the efficacy and role of the triage nurse in patient flow . nursing and medical education and staffing needs were addressed . the use of the community 's emergency medical services was examined by analyzing the disposition of patients arriving at the ed by ambulance . 
oral labetalol in hypertensive urgencies . the response to incremental doses of oral labetalol in 16 patients with hypertensive urgencies is presented . after inadequate blood pressure control with 20 mg of intravenous furosemide , each patient received a 300 mg oral dose of labetalol . subsequent oral doses of labetalol , 100 mg , were administered at 2-hour intervals , if the diastolic blood pressure remained greater than 100 mm hg . the maximum dose of labetalol per patient was 500 mg . five patients required only the initial 300 mg dose of labetalol . two patients required further therapy for satisfactory blood pressure control . mean arterial pressure fell from 156 + / - 12 mm hg to 123 + / - 14 mm hg . 
cerebral circulation and metabolism in patients with septic encephalopathy . cerebral circulation and metabolism in septic encephalopathy have not been well documented . the authors measured cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) and metabolic rate for oxygen ( cmro2 ) in six patients with septic encephalopathy associated with multiple organ failure ( three to five organs ) . they found that cbf and cmro2 were significantly lower than awake control values of 46 + / - 2 to 28 + / - 3 ml/100g/min ( mean + / - sem ) and 3.1 + / - 0.2 to 1.2 + / - 0.2 ml/100g/min , respectively . cerebral vascular resistance ( cvr ) and cerebral circulatory index ( cci : cbf/cmro2 ) were significantly higher than the control values of 2.0 + / - 0.1 to 3.0 + / - 0.4 mm hg/ml/100g / min and 15.1 + / - 0.8 to 24.2 + / - 3.3 , respectively . at the time of cerebral circulatory and metabolic measurements , their consciousness varied between 4 and 10 as evaluated by the glasgow coma scale . the electroencephalogram showed diffuse slow wave activity and the latency of the auditory brain stem evoked response was prolonged in four of six patients . computed brain tomography showed either no abnormality or mild atrophy . it is concluded that cbf and cmro2 are disproportionally decreased during septic encephalopathy in association with dysfunction of the cns and decreased electrical activity . 
intraperitoneal femoral venous catheter insertion with free blood return in presence of tense hemoperitoneum . the authors report a case of intraperitoneal insertion of a femoral venous catheter , with blood return , in a patient with hemoperitoneum . in such patients , skin puncture at or below the inguinal ligament is important . aspiration of unusually dark blood and medial catheter location should raise the possibility of intraperitoneal catheter placement . 
bilateral vocal cord hematomas associated with shoulder harness use . a case of bilateral vocal cord hematomas caused by a shoulder harness injury is presented . the patient was restrained by a three-point belt system and was involved in a front-end collision . she presented with mild facial and chest injuries and a contusion of the neck . one hour after injury she began to complain of hoarseness without airway compromise . fiberoptic laryngoscopy showed bilateral true vocal cord hematomas . the patient had an uneventful hospital course and a full recovery . the importance of the mechanism of injury and associated injuries is discussed . 
saltpeter ingestion . a 37-year-old man presented to the emergency department after an attempt to self-treat his priapism with saltpeter ( k+no 3 ) . initially he had a potassium of 7.6 with electrocardiographic changes and a markedly elevated co2 . the potassium and carbon dioxide normalized in less than 24 hours with standard treatment for hyperkalemia . hyperkalemia is expected with large oral potassium ingestion ; and the elevated co2 was spurious , caused by the misreading of serum nitrates by the ektachrom 700 system . ingestion of k+no 3 should be added to the differential of hyperkalemia with a markedly elevated co2 . 
new approaches in the rehabilitation of the traumatic high level quadriplegic . the use of noninvasive alternatives to tracheostomy for ventilatory support have been described in the patient management of various neuromuscular disorders . the use of these techniques for patients with traumatic high level quadriplegia , however , is hampered by the resort to tracheostomy in the acute hospital setting . twenty traumatic high level quadriplegic patients on intermittent positive pressure ventilation ( ippv ) via tracheostomy with little or no ability for unassisted breathing were converted to noninvasive ventilatory support methods and had their tracheostomy sites closed . four additional patients were ventilated by noninvasive methods without tracheostomy . these methods included the use of body ventilators and the noninvasive intermittent positive airway pressure alternatives of ippv via the mouth , nose , or custom acrylic strapless oral-nasal interface ( soni ) . overnight end-tidal pco2 studies and monitoring of oxyhemoglobin saturation ( sao2 ) were used to adjust ventilator volumes and to document effective ventilation during sleep . no significant complications have resulted from the use of these methods over a period of 45 patient-years . elimination of the tracheostomy permitted significant free time by glossopharyngeal breathing for four patients , two of whom had no measurable vital capacity . we conclude that noninvasive ventilatory support alternatives can be effective and deserve further study in this patient population . 
prevalence of angioid streaks and other ocular complications of paget 's disease of bone . seventy randomly selected patients with paget 's disease of bone were examined for ocular complications . the prevalence of macular degeneration and cataract was 24.3 % . only one patient was found to have angioid streaks . eight patients had peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy . these findings suggest that the prevalence of serious ocular complications of paget 's disease is not as high as previously thought . the significance of peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy requires further evaluation . 
how large must an iridotomy be ? four cases of acute angle closure glaucoma in eyes with a small but patent nd-yag laser iridotomy are presented , and similar cases in the literature are reviewed . theoretically a 15 microns diameter iridotomy should be large enough to prevent angle closure glaucoma due to pupil block . mechanisms by which larger iridotomies fail to prevent angle closure glaucoma , and the role of provocation tests following iridotomy , are discussed . an iridotomy should be at least 150-200 microns in diameter if acute angle closure glaucoma is to be reliably prevented . 
histology of the lens in the weill-marchesani syndrome . the weill-marchesani syndrome is a rare systemic connective tissue disease characterised by small stature , brachydactyly , ectopia lentis , and spherophakia . three siblings with typical manifestations of this syndrome were reported . the ophthalmological findings in all these cases were spherophakia , severe myopia , a shallow anterior chamber , and narrow angle glaucoma . two cases underwent laser iridotomy and drug treatment . in the third case the lens was removed from the eye because of injury , and this lens was examined by light and electron microscopy . 
outcome of cataract surgery in central india : a longitudinal follow-up study . an epidemiological follow-up study of patients who had intracapsular cataract extraction in a voluntary hospital and its associated eye camps in central india has for the first time evaluated the outcome one year after surgery in terms of visual acuity , use of spectacles , and improvement in income and mobility . the findings indicate that under these fairly typical conditions , 92 % of the cases have adequate vision of 6/18 or better one year after surgery . information on high usage of spectacles and on considerable improvements in income and mobility after cataract surgery is also reported . the outcome for patients operated upon in eye camps was almost as favourable as for those operated upon in hospital . although the small differences are not statistically significant , the comparative findings require cautious interpretation and give rise to the epidemiological issues which are briefly discussed in this paper . 
corneal sensitivity and correlations between decreased sensitivity and anterior segment pathology in ocular leprosy . leprosy is one of the leading causes of corneal hyposensitivity . in this article the corneal sensitivity of 143 leprosy patients was examined , and correlations between corneal hyposensitivity and anterior segment pathology were detected . twenty four healthy volunteers were examined as controls . various degrees of corneal loss of sensitivity were found in 46.2 % of leprosy patients . lagophthalmos , chronic lepromatous granulomatous uveitis , iris atrophy , and social blindness were found 4.5-16 .6 times more frequently in eyes which developed severe corneal hyposensitivity . 
influence of untreated chronic plastic iridocyclitis on intraocular pressure in leprosy patients . the intraocular pressures of a total of 286 eyes of patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous leprosy who never had regular ophthalmological care or local eye treatment were measured . the patients were categorised according to the type of leprosy they had , and the eyes were categorised as without or with chronic plastic iridocyclitis . in patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous types of leprosy the intraocular pressure was significantly lower in eyes with chronic plastic iridocylitis 10.1 ( 3.6 ) mmhg than in both unaffected eyes 11.0 ( 3.2 ) mmhg and control eyes 13.5 ( 2.5 ) mmhg . it has been shown that chronic plastic iridocyclitis which remains untreated for years results in a lower intraocular pressure than normal . 
flecked retina associated with ring 17 chromosome . we report the case of a mentally retarded male with a ring 17 chromosome who had subretinal drusen-like deposits in each eye . this is the second report of flecked retina in a patient with ring 17 chromosome , suggesting that there may be a causal relationship between abnormalities of chromosome 17 and retinal pigment epithelial or photoreceptor dysfunction . 
postural studies in pulsatile ocular blood flow : ii . chronic open angle glaucoma . the pulsatile ocular blood flow ( pobf ) has been recorded in 15 patients with chronic open angle glaucoma . measurements were performed during regular treatment with timolol 0.25 % eyedrops , two weeks after withdrawal of this treatment , and then a further two weeks after its reinstitution . readings were taken with subjects in both the erect and supine positions by means of a pneumotonometric probe to measure intraocular pressure ( iop ) , linked to a langham ocular blood flow system . assumption of the supine posture was associated with a significant increase in iop in all phases of the study . treatment with timolol lowered the mean iop in comparison with the untreated phase ( -4.4 ( sem 0.6 ) mmhg , p less than 0.001 ) but had no effect on the postural change . a significant reduction in pobf was recorded on assumption of the supine posture ( -66 ( sem 18 ) microliters/min , p less than 0.001 ) , representing a mean decrement of 19 % . however , there were no significant differences in pobf between treated and untreated phases of the study . comparison of the values obtained in patients with glaucoma ( coag ) after withdrawal of treatment with those in subjects with ocular hypertension revealed that there was no significant difference in intraocular pressure between the two groups . however , both pobf ( -68 ( sem 29 ) microliters/min ) and the pulse amplitude of the intraocular pressure ( ocular pulse : -0.45 ( sem ) 0.14 mmhg ) were significantly lower in the coag patients . pulsatile ocular blood flow is significantly lower in patients with chronic open angle glaucoma . furthermore , the pobf and the postural response of these patients is not improved by the use of topical timolol therapy . 
ocular defects in infants of extremely low birth weight and low gestational age . the eyes of 49 babies who weighed less than 1,000 g at birth or who were born at or before 28 weeks gestation were examined at the age of 4 years . twenty-one children were normal . the remaining 29 children ( 59 % ) had ocular abnormalities which ranged from mild amblyopia to blindness from retinopathy of prematurity . the need to examine children at risk is stressed . 
herpes simplex keratitis in renal transplant patients . five out of 430 patients ( 1.16 % ) undergoing kidney transplantation developed an atypical clinical picture of herpetic dendritic keratitis within four weeks after surgery . it was manifested by multiple dendrites , located mainly in the corneal periphery or the limbus , developing in relatively uninflamed eyes . the response to acyclovir therapy was prolonged and took at least three weeks . additionally , subepithelial infiltrates with ultimate scarring developed in all patients . disciform keratopathy was not found . this clinical course is ascribed to the patients ' immunosuppressed state . 
laser photocoagulation control of diabetic macular oedema without fluorescein angiography . this study included 40 eyes in 22 diabetic patients with focal macular oedema . laser photocoagulation was directed at decompensated or leaking microvascular lesions clinically detected without using pretreatment fluorescein angiograms . post-treatment fluorescein angiograms performed after adequate clinical control of disease showed complete resolution of the macular oedema in 25 eyes ( 62.5 % ) , whereas persistent leakage from microvascular lesions closer than 500 microns from the centre of the foveola was noted in 15 eyes ( 37.5 % ) . these were clinically detected during the pretreatment examination and were found not to impair or threaten the patient 's vision . our data confirm the clinical impression that fluorescein angiography is not necessary for effective treatment and should be used only if necessary . 
philadelphia chromosome and monosomy 7 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia : a pediatric oncology group study . during an 8-year period , 3,638 children from institutions of the pediatric oncology group ( pog ) were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . fifty-seven patients had philadelphia chromosome-positive ( ph1 ) all . blast cells obtained at diagnosis from 13 of these 57 cases ( 23 % ) were also found to have partial or complete monosomy 7 ( -7 ) . this subgroup of children with ph1 / -7 all was comprised primarily of older males with early b-lineage all . bone marrow specimens from six ph1 / -7 patients were studied further using the polymerase chain reaction and primers that flank the all , and chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoints to determine the molecular characteristic of the 9 ; 22 translocation . rearrangements were detected in rna from bone marrow and/or peripheral blood cells of six patients , although four were in hematologic remission at the time of the analysis . five cases showed the all breakpoint , while one child with ph1 / -7 showed the chronic myelogenous leukemia breakpoint . the induction failure rate was much higher in this subgroup ( 31 % ) as compared with ph1-negative cases , and the projected duration of event-free survival reflected the aggressive nature of this subgroup because no children are projected to remain in remission at 2 years . all with both the 9 ; 22 translocation and -7 appears to represent a unique and previously undescribed subgroup of childhood all associated with a particularly adverse outcome . leukemic transformation in such patients may involve the interaction of a dominant oncogene ( ph1 ) and a tumor suppressor gene ( -7 ) . 
myc rearrangement and translocations involving band 8q24 in diffuse large cell lymphomas . the configuration of the myc gene in diffuse large cell lymphomas ( dlcl ) with translocations involving band 8q24 [ t ( 8q24 ) ] has not been systematically studied . we collected cytogenetic and clinical data on 171 consecutive cases of dlcl , including cleaved , noncleaved , and immunoblastic types , of which 96 had dna available and 124 had abnormal karyotypes . the cases with dna available were evaluated for myc rearrangement ( myc-r ) by southern hybridization of ecori-digested tumor dna using an exon-1 probe , a combination of probe and enzyme known to detect over 85 % of breaks in sporadic burkitt 's lymphoma . in cases studied at diagnosis , myc-r , t ( 8 ; 14 ) ( q24 ; q32 ) , or other t ( 8q24 ) were not prognostically significant . among the 124 cases with karyotypic abnormalities , seropositivity for human immunodeficiency virus was significantly more common in cases with a t ( 8q24 ) ( 72 % ) than in cases without it ( 9 % ) ( p less than .05 ) . of the four cases with an myc - r , two had a t ( 8 ; 14 ) , one had a t ( 7 ; 8 ; 14 ) ( p15 ; q24 ; q32 ) , and one had a t ( 8 ; ? ) ( q24 ; ? ) and a del ( 8 ) ( q24 ) . in the three previous cases with translocations involving 8q24 and 14q32 , comigration of the rearranged myc band with either the j region or the switch-mu region of the ig heavy chain gene could not be demonstrated , leaving the 14q32 breakpoint undefined at the molecular level . among the remaining 72 cases where both an abnormal karyotype and molecular data were available , 11 had a t ( 8q24 ) , either t ( 8 ; 14 ) or t ( 8 ; 22 ) ( q24 ; q11 ) , in the absence of an myc-r . in these cases , the 8q24 break was presumably located outside of the ecori myc fragment . all 15 cases with a t ( 8q24 ) were also screened for point mutations in the pvuii site in the first exon of myc ; two cases that were not myc-r showed loss of this restriction site . these results indicate that in most dlcl with t ( 8 ; 14 ) or other t ( 8q24 ) , the 8q24 breakpoint lies away from the myc gene ; in a minority of these cases , point mutations in regulatory noncoding regions were detected . 
nb4 , a maturation inducible cell line with t ( 15 ; 17 ) marker isolated from a human acute promyelocytic leukemia ( m3 ) . acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) is a well-defined entity among acute leukemia , cytogenetically characterized by a t ( 15 ; 17 ) ( q22 ; q11-12 ) translocation . in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) treatment restores cell maturation . we have isolated the first permanent cell line with t ( 15 ; 17 ) , derived from the marrow of a patient with apl in relapse . the establishment of the cell line , its morphologic , karyotypic , and immunohistochemical features are reported . ra induced cell line maturation . cells strongly expressed myeloid markers , but also some t-cell markers . additional karyotypic abnormalities , a 12p rearrangement and the possible presence of a homogeneous staining region ( hsr ) on 19q + are discussed both in relation to t-cell ( cd2 , cd4 ) and monocyte ( cd9 ) markers , and to the acquired cell growth autonomy . the cell line represents a remarkable tool for biomolecular studies . 
interphase cytogenetic analysis detects minimal residual disease in a case of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and resolves the question of origin of relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . we used in situ hybridization with a probe for the x chromosome to study interphase cells of bone marrow and peripheral blood specimens from a male patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia characterized by hyperdiploidy , including trisomy x. in a posttreatment bone marrow specimen , which was interpreted as a regenerating bone marrow morphologically and which demonstrated a normal karyotype cytogenetically , trisomy x was found in 16 of 1,000 interphase cells . this finding indicated the presence of leukemic cells that were undetected by conventional morphologic and cytogenetic techniques ( ie , minimal residual disease ) . cytogenetic studies of a relapse specimen obtained after a sex-mismatched bone marrow transplant showed only a normal female karyotype in each of 40 metaphase cells , suggesting that the relapse occurred in donor cells . however , interphase analysis demonstrated trisomy x in more than 80 % of interphase cells and indicated that the relapse was of the original clone and was not a transformation of donor cells . this case illustrates that interphase analysis can be useful as an adjunct to conventional cytogenetic analysis in the detection of minimal residual disease and in the analysis of interphase cells that are not accessible to routine cytogenetic methods . it also illustrates that previously reported instances of relapse of leukemia in donor cells could have been incorrect if supported by cytogenetic data alone . 
high hemoglobin a2 beta 0-thalassemia due to a 532-basepair deletion of the 5 ' beta-globin gene region . we identify and characterize a novel beta 0-thalassemia mutation that is associated with an unusually high level of hemoglobin ( hb ) a2 in the heterozygote . this newly discovered mutation is caused by a 532-basepair deletion that extends from positions -454 to + 78 relative to the mrna cap site of the beta-globin gene . the propositi are 9-month-old fraternal twins . one of the twins is a compound heterozygote for the deletion and hb s , the other is a compound heterozygote for the deletion and hb c. 
salvage of branch vessels during bifurcation lesion angioplasty : acute and long-term follow-up . to evaluate angiographic success , frequency of branch vessel loss and salvage , and long-term outcome , we studied the early and late outcomes of 56 consecutive patients who underwent ptca of bifurcation lesions , which involved the left anterior descending or left circumflex coronary artery , with stenoses greater than 70 % in both the parent and an involved branch vessel . in 35 patients ( 63 % ) , the ptca strategy was attempted dilation of both the main vessel and the involved branch vessels using predominantly a double-wire , sequential balloon technique ; in 21 ( 27 % ) the ptca attempt was confined to the main vessel alone . transient angiographic occlusion of the branch vessel occurred in 32 % of patients in whom dilation of both vessels was attempted , and in 38 % in whom the main vessel alone was dilated ( p = ns ) ; 91 % of the occluded branch vessels were the salvaged when sequential angioplasty of both vessels had been initially planned , compared to only 38 % when the initial strategy had been dilation of the main vessel alone ( p less than .05 ) . predischarge exercise testing showed residual ischemia in 6 % of patients who had both vessels successfully dilated , versus 37 % in those in whom dilatation was confined to the main vessels ( p less than .01 ) . clinical restenosis , defined as late ( greater than 6 weeks ) recurrence of angina or a positive exercise test , occurred in 42 % of patients who had both vessels successfully dilated . thus although bifurcation lesion angioplasty frequently results in transient branch vessel loss , these branches can usually be salvaged using a double-wire technique but tend to have a higher late restenosis than conventional single vessel ptca . 
coronary angioplasty following cardiac transplantation : a case report and review of the literature . a 23-year-old man underwent successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of a severe stenosis of the left anterior descending artery 25 months after orthotopic heart transplantation . four months later restenosis of the same lesion was treated by repeat ptca . angiography 11 months later showed no restenosis . in selected cases , ptca may be useful in treating allograft coronary disease . 
takayasu 's disease with axillary , right coronary artery , and right internal mammary stenosis treated with angioplasty . a 47-year-old woman presented with progressive angina and failed medical therapy . after an unsuccessful attempt at angioplasty of a totally occluded right coronary artery , coronary artery bypass using the right internal mammary artery was performed . she presented 2 years later with stenosis in the mammary graft , right coronary artery , and axillary artery . these lesions were all treated with angioplasty . 
rate-related left bundle branch block as a cause of non-ischemic chest pain . a case is presented of rate-dependent left bundle branch block associated with chest pain in a patient with angiographically normal coronary arteries . lactate extraction showed no evidence of myocardial ischemia . it appears that in this case , chest pain was associated with sudden ventricular asynergy rather than myocardial ischemia . 
clinical management issues in males with sex chromosomal mosaicism and discordant phenotype/sex chromosomal patterns . the recent availability of y dna probes has made it possible to identify two forms of 46 , xx male syndrome : y dna positive and y dna negative . the y dna positive male results from a x ; y translocation with a low recurrence risk ; the y dna negative males are due to a mutation with a high recurrence risk . 46 , xx males and mosaic forms are phenotypically indistinguishable . a review of the case histories for 11 individuals indicates that affected males have highly variable genital and nongenital phenotypes . physical findings may be clearly apparent or nonexistent . with the exception of external genitalia , the basis for this variability is unknown . it may be related to differences in y chromatin expression as the result of variable inactivation of the x chromosomes , or to the existence of minor deletions or point mutations secondary to an exchange of genetic material . common and uncommon clinical problems in these individuals require evaluation and follow-up care that is provided through a cooperative , interdisciplinary approach . 
immune functions during treatment of growth hormone-deficient children with biosynthetic human growth hormone . immune functions , including cell surface markers , interleukin-2 receptor levels and responses of lymphocytes to mitogenic stimulation were evaluated in seven growth hormone deficient children ages 4-15 years , during treatment with biosynthetically derived human growth hormone . treatment resulted in a decrease in % b cells and in % t total cells and also decreases in most individual patients ' mitogen responses and interleukin-2 receptor levels . most of the changes noted were transient and similar to those previously demonstrated during pituitary-derived human growth hormone treatment . although not resulting in overt clinical manifestations in our patients , we think that potential interactions between growth hormone and immune functions need to be considered by physicians treating children with growth hormone . 
reinforcement of incontinent stools in the treatment of encopresis . in this paper , fecal incontinence and constipation were treated in two mentally retarded individuals using a novel intervention wherein incontinent stools were first rewarded in order to increase the frequency of bowel movements . this intervention was implemented only after more traditional pediatric and behavioral treatments were unsuccessful . the reinforcement of incontinent stools procedure resulted in an increase in both the frequency and the number of continent stools for both individuals . hypotheses regarding the failure of previous treatments and the success of the current treatment are discussed as well as directions for future research . 
genetics of common diseases of adulthood . implications for prenatal counseling and diagnosis . genetic factors play an important role in the development of many common diseases of adulthood that result in early morbidity and mortality . prevention of these disorders and their sequelae is best established through early detection and early intervention . although it may be feasible to screen the entire population for some disorders ( e.g. , hypertension ) , this approach would be expensive and impractical for others ( e.g. , colon cancer ) . the family history provides an inexpensive and convenient method of identifying families at risk for premature diseases of adulthood . family screening for a disorder should be recommended if there is increased risk for the disorder among family members , if screening methods are available to detect the condition at an early age or preclinical stage , and if early intervention will alter the course of the disease . for many disorders screening and intervention can prevent the occurrence of clinical disease . the prenatal counseling session affords an ideal setting for identifying families at risk for diseases of adulthood with major genetic components . by reviewing the family history , key family members can be identified and investigated , in order to establish a specific genetic diagnosis . at-risk relatives can then be counseled and screened for the disorder preclinically and premorbidly . the screening and intervention available for a disease depends on the nature of the disorder , our understanding of its physiology and etiology , and our current technology . the disorders discussed earlier are typical of conditions of adulthood that are influenced strongly by genetic factors , especially when they appear in younger adults . atherosclerosis , colon cancer , and diabetes are complex phenotypes . each can be caused by single-gene defects , but commonly the genetics are more complex . empiric data help to establish the risk to an individual in the latter cases . in all three examples , early detection should lead to treatment , which can prevent more serious sequelae : by treating the dyslipidemia , coronary artery disease can be prevented ; by removing the benign polyp , malignant cancer can be avoided ; and when impaired glucose tolerance is detected , diet and exercise can prevent or delay frank diabetes and its complications . the complete evaluation of individuals at risk for disorders such as those in table 1 and their families can be a complicated task . referral to a center experienced in the genetics of common diseases often may be necessary . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
treatment of end-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with double lung transplantation . six patients with end-stage emphysema ( age 44 + / - 2 years ) underwent double lung transplantation ( tx ) from june 1988 through may 1990 . all suffered from severe inanition and required oxygen therapy . the ischemic time was 193 + / - 28 minutes . post-tx immune suppression was okt3 ( 14 days ) , cyclosporine ( trough levels of 150 + / - 25 ng/ml ) , azathioprine to keep wbc at 3,000 to 5,000 / cu mm ( 1 to 3.0 mg/kg/day ) and following okt3 , a tapering prednisone regimen . two rejection episodes that occurred in two patients on post-tx day 5 and 10 were treated with bolus doses of methylprednisolone . the mean hospital stay was 32 + / - 7 days ( range , 20 to 69 days ) . four patients required treatment of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection : gastritis ( + donor , + recipient ) in one and cmv pneumonia in two ( + donor , - recipient ) . a fourth ( + donor , - recipient ) had right-sided candida empyema six weeks post-tx , developed cmv and staphylococcal sepsis , and died 64 days post-tx . one patient required pyloroplasty eight weeks post-tx and one patient underwent tracheal suture line repair at eight weeks . during a follow-up of 81 patients months ( range , 8 to 24 months ) , one patient had developed epstein-barr viral ( ebv ) induced lymphoproliferative disease in the lung and one patient had developed ebv lymphoma . three patients are at work , one is continuing rehabilitation , and one is at home . double lung tx offers a definitive benefit to patients with emphysema ; however , a prolonged postoperative course can be expected . viral infections remain serious but treatable problems . 
safety of the transbronchial biopsy in outpatients . the objective of our study was to determine the safety of transbronchial biopsy ( tbb ) in nonhospitalized patients . the design was a prospective study of the consecutive cases from july 1987 until september 1988 in the setting of a university hospital of the third level with 1,800 beds . the patients were a consecutive sample of 169 patients who had 184 procedures of fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( fob ) with tbb performed . they suffered from different diseases : lung nodules or masses , diffuse interstitial disease , alveolar condensation , etc . an fob with tbb was performed in immunocompetent outpatients , who were kept under observation for four hours and then had a chest roentgenogram taken afterwards . we contacted them again after 72 hours to rule out delayed complications . in three cases , more than 100 ml of blood were obtained during the fob , without significant hemoptysis being recorded in those patients during the observation period ; chest pain occurred in 15 patients during the tbb ; pneumothorax occurred in two patients ( 1 percent ) , one of whom required admission to the hospital , without requiring chest tube drainage . other complications are reported ( bronchospasm , parenchymal hemorrhage , and pneumonia ) . in conclusion , we consider the tbb to be a technique with a low incidence of complications for outpatients , so therefore we do not believe that admission to the hospital is mandatory for this type of patient , although we do recommend a longer observation period . 
stair climbing as an exercise test to predict the postoperative complications of lung resection . two years ' experience . the results of a clinically performed preoperative stair climb was compared to the presence of postthoracotomy complications in the retrospective hospital record review of 54 adult men . the stair climb was a maximum of five flights ( 125 steps ) performed at the patient 's rate and terminated at his request . pulmonary function measurements and facets of the stair climb physiology were also examined in reference to the presence , type , and severity of complications experienced . most minor complications such as transient arrhythmias , atelectasis , and pneumonia were clearly not predicted by the stair climb performance . the ability to climb three flights preoperatively most clearly separated those patients having the longer postoperative intubation and hospital stay , greater frequency of complications , and cumulative complication score ( p less than 0.005 ) . this retrospective study did not have sufficient numbers of fatal cardiopulmonary complications to exclude the possibility that these may be predicted by the results of this simple test . 
oxygen desaturation during fiberoptic bronchoscopy in pediatric patients . study objective : pulse oximetry was used to measure arterial oxygen saturation and the extent of hypoxemia in pediatric patients undergoing fb . design : arterial oxygen saturation was measured ( 1 ) prior to the procedure to provide a baseline value , ( 2 ) when the bronchoscope was positioned in the nasopharynx , and ( 3 ) when the bronchoscope was positioned in the mid-trachea . setting : fiberoptic bronchoscopy was performed in the pediatric special care unit or in the pediatric pulmonary laboratory using an olympus bf3c4 fiberoptic bronchoscope with a 3.5-mm outer diameter . patients or participants : thirty-six children who underwent diagnostic or therapeutic bronchoscopy for a variety of reasons were evaluated . they ranged in age from 6 to 142 months ; 20 were male and 16 were female . interventions : there were no interventions . measurements and results : of the 36 patients , 29 experienced a fall in sao2 levels exceeding 5 percent of baseline values . the youngest age group , 6 to 12 months , showed the greatest drop in saturation as compared with the other groups . desaturation was significantly increased by midtracheal fb . conclusions : a decline in arterial oxygen saturation that may be substantial in infants and children undergoing fb examination was frequently noted , especially in smaller infants and when the bronchoscope was positioned in the mid-trachea . supplemental oxygen and a brisk procedure time will minimize the risk of dangerous hypoxia . 
spirometric criteria for hospital admission of patients with acute exacerbation of copd . recent studies have demonstrated that there is a high relapse rate for patients discharged from the emergency department ( ed ) following treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) . objective criteria have not been established to determine when to hospitalize these patients . this study evaluated spirometric criteria for that use . eighty-three patients with an acute exacerbation of copd were studied ; 45 percent were admitted to the hospital while 17 percent of the patients who were discharged suffered a relapse . an fev1 of less than 40 percent of predicted normal identified patients who required hospital admission or suffered a relapse with a sensitivity of 0.96 , specificity of 0.58 , and overall accuracy of 0.78 . combining clinical assessment with spirometry led to an improvement in specificity to 0.73 with a minimal decrease in sensitivity . patients with an fev1 of 40 percent or greater of predicted normal or no clinical evidence of respiratory distress after treatment may be safely discharged from the hospital . patients not meeting these criteria are at high risk for relapse and should either be admitted or have further aggressive ed therapy . 
relative validity of self-reported snoring as a symptom of sleep apnea in a sleep clinic population the purpose of this study was to evaluate the relative validity of responses to three different questions about snoring as indicators for sleep apnea in a population referred to a sleep clinic . secondary goals were to evaluate the meaning of a " do n't know " response to these questions and to examine how the associations between snoring and sleep apnea are influenced by demographics . results from 1,409 patients in a sleep clinic indicated that nearly all levels of estimated snoring frequency were associated with a greater likelihood of sleep apnea . in addition , a " do n't know " response indicated a likelihood of sleep apnea . in the sample from this clinic , sensitivities approximating 90 percent were obtained in men , and specificities approximating 90 percent were obtained in women , but high diagnostic accuracy ( high specificity in men ; high sensitivity in women ) could not be achieved with the three snoring questions used here . generally , associations between snoring and sleep apnea were independent of age and sex . single persons , persons living alone , and persons customarily sleeping alone of both sexes all showed associations between self-reported snoring and the presence of sleep apnea . 
pulmonary tolerance of prophylactic aerosolized pentamidine in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . the effects of primary and secondary long-term prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia with aerosolized pentamidine on pulmonary function in hiv + patients were evaluated . eighty-one patients , none of whom were drug addicts or had pulmonary kaposi 's sarcoma , were studied . fifty patients were receiving ap as secondary prophylaxis , 36 monthly and 14 twice-monthly ; eight patients with a history of pcp served as control subjects . twenty-three patients were receiving ap as primary prophylaxis , 12 monthly and 11 twice-monthly . pulmonary function tests , including spirometry , lung transfer capacity for carbon monoxide ( tlco ) and alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient ( p [ a-a ] o2 ) were evaluated at m1 , ie , one month after the diagnosis of pcp , or at the beginning of the ap prophylaxis , and then at three-month intervals ( m4 to m13 ) . no differences were observed in the results of spirometry or p ( a-a ) o2 . among the patients receiving secondary prophylaxis , a significant increase ( paired student 's t-test ) in tlco occurred at m7 compared to m1 in the group receiving monthly administrations ( p less than 0.01 ) and in the untreated control group ( p less than 0.05 ) ; there was no significant difference in tlco at m13 compared to m1 in the 12 patients who received monthly administrations for this period or at m7 in the 14 patients receiving ap twice-monthly . no significant difference in tlco was observed at m7 in the primary prophylaxis groups . these results indicate that pulmonary tolerance of ap , as reflected by pulmonary function tests , is good . 
impaired exercise capacity in adults with moderate scoliosis . we measured lung function and exercise tolerance in 15 adults with moderate kyphoscoliosis ( thoracic curvatures between 25 degrees and 70 degrees , mean + / - sd = 46.93 degrees + / - 14.02 degrees ) . forced vital capacity showed a slight reduction from values predicted from age and sex matched control subjects ( 3.39 + / - 1.06 vs 4.06 + / - 0.82 l , p less than 0.05 ) . however , exercise tolerance was significantly lower than previously reported in healthy adults ( vo2max = 31.60 + / - 9.12 vs 37.07 + / - 4.91 ml/kg/min , p less than 0.05 ) . despite the reduced exercise tolerance , the ratio of maximum tidal volume to vital capacity ( vtmax/vc ) was similar to that observed in healthy adults . the mean dyspnea index ( vemax/mvv ) was also normal at 69.4 + / - 19.0 . hypoxic and hypercapnic ventilatory responses were within predicted normal limits at 0.67 + / - 0.37 l/min -1 fall in sao2-1 and 1.67 + / - 0.92 l/min -1 mm hg pco2 ( -1 ) . we conclude that the impairment of exercise performance found in adults with moderate scoliosis can not be attributed to any important ventilatory limitation , abnormality in lung volume , or impaired chemoreceptor sensitivity . we suggest that the reduced vo2max likely arises from deconditioning and lack of regular aerobic exercise . 
patterns of resource consumption in medical intensive care intensive care is being scrutinized as a major factor in increasing health care costs . we examined 404 consecutive admissions to the medical icus at a university medical center to study patterns of consumption of icu resources and the proportion of resources used by patients admitted for monitoring only . we found a skewed distribution of icu resource consumption , with the " high-cost " 8 percent using as many icu resources as the " low-cost " 92 percent . forty-one percent of admissions did not receive acute icu treatments , but these admissions consumed less than 10 percent of icu resources . reducing the number of patients admitted for monitoring will have a relatively small impact on hospital charges . since over 70 percent of the high-cost patients died , improved understanding of prognosis and better physician-patient communication may substantially reduce the proportion of critical care resources expended on futile treatment . 
active vs passive rhythms as an explanation of bigeminal rhythm with similar p waves . we describe the criteria for differential diagnosis between 3:2 sinoatrial block from atrial bigeminy due to an ectopic focus in the sinus or parasinus zone . in the 3:2 sinoatrial block the rr interval of the basic rhythm is similar to the short r-r interval of the paired rhythm . in atrial bigeminy , the r-r interval of the basic rhythm is similar to the long r-r interval of the paired rhythm . 
hypercapnic respiratory failure due to l-tryptophan-induced eosinophilic polymyositis . a 24-year-old man presenting with fever , rash , and myalgias subsequently developed hypercapnic respiratory failure and severe limb muscle weakness . muscle biopsy revealed eosinophilic myositis , due to the ingestion of large quantities of l-tryptophan as a dietary supplement . complete recovery occurred with corticosteroid administration . significant involvement of the respiratory muscles can be a predominant feature of this newly described disease entity . 
subcutaneous and mediastinal emphysema associated with hypersensitivity pneumonitis . we report a rare case of a patient in whom severe subcutaneous and mediastinal emphysema occurred in association with summer-type hypersensitivity pneumonitis and in whom overdistention or disruption of alveoli with obliteration of the respiratory bronchioles was revealed on open lung biopsy . this case suggests that obstructive bronchiolitis with hypersensitivity pneumonitis is an etiologic factor of mediastinal emphysema . 
coronary artery fistula formation secondary to permanent pacemaker placement . we present the findings in two patients who apparently developed a coronary artery fistula as a complication of an endocardial pacing electrode . this complication may actually be occurring more frequently than recognized because the patient may be asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic and therefore not undergo a coronary angiogram . awareness of this potentially serious complication is important and stresses the need for proper electrode placement without excess pressure on the tip . 
unusual presentation of recurrent wegener 's granulomatosis . a 65-year-old woman presented with recurrent wegener 's granulomatosis following two years of immunosuppressive therapy and three years of complete remission . at her initial presentation , she had a characteristic x-ray picture showing multiple nodules with total resolution of these findings at three months . five years later , at the time of clinical relapse , her chest x-ray film showed bilateral diffuse infiltrative disease . this change in radiologic presentation upon relapse of wegener 's has not previously been reported . other unusual features include diffuse infiltrates as the pulmonary presentation and the long interval between cessation of therapy and relapse . we review the radiologic manifestations of wegener 's granulomatosis . 
effect of intraesophageal location and muscarinic blockade on balloon distension-induced chest pain . intraesophageal balloon distension has been introduced recently as a provocative test in the assessment of patients with noncardiac chest pain . in order to examine the effect of balloon location and muscarinic blockade on distension-induced pain , 10 asymptomatic male volunteers were studied on two separate days using a low-compliance perfused manometry system that incorporated a silicone rubber balloon . five-second-duration balloon distensions using balloon volumes of 2.5 , 5 , 7.5 , and 10 ml of air were performed with the balloon located both 16 cm ( proximal site ) and 6 cm ( distal site ) above the lower esophageal sphincter ( les ) before and after administration of atropine ( 10 micrograms/kg intravenously ) or placebo in a randomized double-blind fashion . a standardized scoring system was used to assess the balloon distension-induced pain . pain scores varied directly with balloon volume but were consistently higher with the balloon located at the proximal site versus the distal site . this was not associated with any differences in intraballoon pressures between the two sites ; however , contraction amplitude orad to the balloon was greater with balloon distension at the proximal site . atropine significantly decreased pain sensation scores with the balloon located distally but not proximally . this attenuation was not associated with significant changes in intraballoon pressures ; however , contractions orad to the balloon were markedly inhibited by atropine with distal but not with proximal distension . these studies indicate that balloon distension-induced pain varies depending on the location of distension . this difference is not explained by differences in esophageal wall tension at the site of distension . 
demonstration of two distinct subsets of gastric varices . observations during a seven-year study of endoscopic sclerotherapy . over a seven-year period , assessment of gastric varices was made on 225 patients receiving endoscopic sclerotherapy for variceal hemorrhage . of 170 patients with complete data , gastric varices were observed in 26 ( 15.3 % ) . importantly , two distinct subsets of gastric varices were identified : varices distal to the gastroesophageal junction without extension into the fundus , termed " junctional varices , " occurred in 11.2 % , and varices that were confined only to the fundus , termed " fundal varices , " occurred less frequently in 4.1 % . although rebleeding was increased in both subsets of gastric varices , junctional varices were more amenable to sclerotherapy . patients with fundal varices ( n = 7 ) had a significantly higher rebleeding rate , increased complications with sclerotherapy , and significantly decreased survival ( p less than 0.005 ) when compared to patients with esophageal varices alone ( n = 87 ) who were followed for more than three months . cumulative survival was not significantly different ( p less than 0.08 ) in patients with junctional varices ( n = 19 ) when compared with patients with esophageal varices alone . we conclude that not all patients with gastric varices have a poor result with sclerotherapy . recognition of these subsets may improve treatment strategies in patients with gastric varices . 
biliary pain in postcholecystectomy patients without biliary obstruction . a prospective radionuclide study . biliary pain without obvious biliary obstruction is common in postcholecystectomy patients . we studied 20 symptomatic patients with episodes of biliary-type pain after cholecystectomy ( all having undergone endoscopic retrograde cholangiography ) , and in 18 asymptomatic postcholecystectomy controls . we performed quantitative hepatobiliary radionuclide analysis with dimethyl-imidodiacetic acid . from a series of 90 dynamic images at 1-min intervals using a gamma camera coupled to a computer , time-activity curves were produced in regions of interest in the liver , intrahepatic biliary tree , common duct , and heart , from which quantitative biliary excretion indexes were obtained . the results demonstrate a biliary kinetic dysfunction in patients with postcholecystectomy pain without morphological abnormalities . 
usefulness of fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration as early indicator of postoperative asymptomatic recurrence in crohn 's disease . the aim of this study was to evaluate in crohn 's disease the possible usefulness of alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration in the early detection of postoperative asymptomatic recurrence . eleven adult patients with small bowel crohn 's disease undergoing elective resection were enrolled in the study and prospectively followed for one year . three , six , and 12 months after surgery the alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration were measured , and the disease activity was assessed . all patients were free of active symptoms throughout the study . one year after surgery small bowel radiology was performed in all patients . radiographic evidence of recurrent macroscopic disease was found in five of the 11 patients . three months after surgery both alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration were significantly lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than before surgery . there was no difference at this time between patients with recurrence and those with no recurrence . in patients with recurrence both alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and fecal concentration significantly increased at six months in comparison with the values at three months ( p less than 0.02 ) . both measurements were significantly higher at six and 12 months in this group of patients than in those with no recurrence and in normal controls ( p less than 0.01 ) . at six and 12 months alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance was above the upper normal limit in all patients with recurrence . we conclude that fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance is a noninvasive , inexpensive , sensitive marker of asymptomatic recurrence in cd patients who are under regular supervision after surgery . 
acute porphyria presenting with hyperamylasemia . an elevation of serum amylase and lipase has not been reported previously to occur with porphyria . in this report , we describe a patient who presented with the clinical and laboratory picture of pancreatitis : elevated amylase , lipase , amylase-creatinine clearance ratio , and with abdominal pain . only after extensive evaluation , was the patient found to have porphyria . on two separate occasions , with hematin therapy , her serum amylase decreased , as did her clinical symptoms of porphyria and her urinary quantitative porphyrins . this suggests an association between elevation of the serum amylase and lipase with acute porphyria . moreover , this association can lead to delay in establishing the diagnosis of acute porphyria . 
severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis advancing to gradual cessation with hyperbaric oxygen . we report a case of a male patient suffering from a severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis which gradually ceased with hyperbaric oxygen . we discuss the mechanisms of chronic radiation injury and the effect of the hyperbaric oxygen . this therapy is proposed as an alternative to surgical intervention for this abnormality . 
duodenal-caval fistula . duodenal-caval fistula is a rare , often lethal disease that requires prompt diagnosis and surgical correction . a case of duodenal-caval fistula due to duodenal ulceration is presented and discussed . 
differences in glycolytic capacity and hypoxia tolerance between hepatoma cells and hepatocytes . viability , glycolytic capacity and energy metabolism under anaerobic conditions were studied in the hepatoma cell lines htc , fu5 and hepg2 and in rat and human hepatocytes using glucose and fructose as glycolytic precursors . during 6 hr of anaerobic incubation without additional substrate , viability decreased rapidly in fu5 and htc cells , whereas viability of hepg2 cells was not significantly affected . in all tumor cells , 10 mmol/l glucose prevented hypoxic cell injury almost completely . lactate formation from glucose was about five times higher than in hepatocytes under these circumstances . atp content of the tumor cells remained almost constant under anaerobic conditions in the presence of glucose . ten millimoles per liter of fructose diminished glycolysis in the hepatoma cells compared with glucose , ranging from 87 % reduction in htc cells to 43 % reduction in hepg2 cells . accordingly , atp content decreased rapidly in the fu5 and slowly in the hepg2 cells . viability was strongly diminished in the htc and fu5 cells in the presence of fructose , whereas in the hepg2 cells no effect of fructose on viability was detectable . in contrast to the hepatoma cells , rat and human hepatocytes exhibited higher rates of anaerobic glycolysis in the presence of fructose and thus were able to maintain their viability under these conditions . these differences in glycolytic capacity , energy metabolism and hypoxia tolerance of hepatoma cells compared with hepatocytes may be used for the treatment of liver cancer by isolated liver perfusion and ex situ revision of the organ . 
interferon-alpha receptor expression and regulation in chronic hepatitis b virus infection . interferon-alpha elicits antiviral and immunoregulatory activities by binding to specific receptors on the cell surface . in this study , binding characteristics of interferon-alpha to peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection were studied using radioiodinated recombinant interferon-alpha 2b to determine interferon-alpha receptor numbers and dissociation constants . a single class of interferon-alpha receptor was demonstrated on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and mononuclear subsets . peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection ( n = 20 ) and controls ( n = 16 ) expressed a similar number of interferon-alpha receptors ( 484 + / - 175 vs. 511 + / - 168 sites/cell respectively , p = ns ) with a similar dissociation constant ( dissociation constant approximately 0.2 to 0.7 nmol/l ) . expression of interferon-alpha receptors was similar in monocyte-enriched and lymphocyte-enriched fractions in both groups . similar changes were observed in patients receiving alpha-interferon therapy . there was no correlation between interferon-alpha receptors expression and serum transaminase , serum hbsag , serum hbv dna , liver histological findings or the response to interferon-alpha therapy . after incubation of lymphocytes in vitro with interferon-alpha 2b ( 10 to 1,000 u/ml ) , interferon-alpha receptors number dropped by 42 % to 80 % , but this was associated with an increase in binding affinity ( dissociation constant approximately 0.05 to 0.15 nmol/l ) in both patients and controls . there was significant delay in the initial phase of receptor recovery in the patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection compared with normal controls ( days 1 and 2 , p less than 0.05 ) . 
hageman factor-dependent kinin activation in burns and its theoretical relationship to postburn immunosuppression syndrome and infection . burn injury and intradermal injection of bradykinin or histamine cause permeability changes visualized as dye-release lesions in the skin of guinea pigs injected intravenously with evans blue dye . antihistamine pretreatment ablates the histamine but not the effect of thermal injury or bradykinin . bradykinin is generated via activation of hageman factor in a two-step reaction . steps 1 and 2 can be inhibited by corn trypsin inhibitor and soy bean trypsin inhibitors , respectively . dye-release lesions were reduced from thermal injury and bradykinin injections when these substances were injected into the skin first . angiotensin-converting enzyme deactivates bradykinin by degrading it . angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor neutralizes angiotensin-converting enzyme . dye-release lesions from both thermal injury and bradykinin injection were enhanced because of continued bradykinin build-up when these treatments were preceded by subcutaneous injections of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor . thus bradykinin is generated in thermal injury via the hageman factor-dependent pathway . hageman factor sits at the apex of a series of interrelated cascade systems , all of which impinge on the animal 's immune status . uncontrolled hagemen factor activation in thermal injury may be the link among all the events collectively known as the " post thermal injury immunosuppression syndrome . " . 
determination of tissue viability in experimental electrical injuries . electrical burns or ischemia ( induced by vascular ligation ) were produced in the legs of 15 anesthetized dogs to study evolution of tissue changes compared with impedance alterations . after the application of 1-ampere currents at 60 hz , animals were monitored from 1 to 4 days . muscle impendance was measured with frequency sweeping to determine tissue destruction . nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( phosphorus 31 ) was used to assess metabolic activity , and results were compared to impedance measurements . in burned limbs , 70 % reduction in muscle impedance was seen , which corresponds to decreased metabolic activity ( absent organic phosphates ) and suggests necrosis . visually viable tissue had impedance decreases of 25 % and levels of organic phosphates slightly lower than normal . relaxation frequencies in dogs with severe burns exceeded 80 khz ; in viable tissue , 30 to 40 khz ( normal : 30 khz ) . in ischemic muscle , organic phosphates decreased rapidly ( 1 to 2 hours ) ; impedance changes evolved more slowly ( 1 day ) , but they ultimately reached the same degree of severity . measurement of impedance may be a valuable adjunct in the evaluation of electrical burns , since significant changes strongly suggest nonviability . 
measles-associated diarrhea in hospitalized children in lima , peru : pathogenic agents and impact on growth . because the causes of measles-associated diarrhea are not well known , 0 - to 5-year-old children presenting to the hospital with measles-associated diarrhea ( cases , n = 77 ) or acute diarrhea only ( controls , n = 77 ) were compared . growth and diarrheal morbidity were evaluated for 1 month after acute illness . campylobacter jejuni was more frequently isolated from cases ( 31 % ) than controls ( 16 % ; p = .03 ) . rotavirus was absent in all cases versus 28 % of controls ( p less than .001 ) . incidence density for new episodes of diarrhea was significantly greater in cases ( 6.5 vs. 4.1 ; odds ratio , 1.6 ; confidence intervals , 1.09-2 .34 ; p = .01 ) , as was duration of episodes ( 3 vs. 2 days , p = .02 ) . both groups showed similar positive cumulative percentage weight gains throughout follow-up . these data support the theory of measles as a risk factor for developing diarrhea . the bacteriologic and virologic findings may reflect the immunologic response of the host to measles infection . 
immunoglobulins a , g , and m to cytomegalovirus during recurrent infection in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . occurrence and significance of specific iga and igm to cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) in recurrent cmv infection was evaluated in 21 allogeneic t lymphocyte-depleted bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) recipients who had been previously cmv seropositive . of 17 patients with cmv infection , viruria was detected in 94 % , cmv-specific iga in 88 % and igm in 76 % , and a fourfold rise in igg in 65 % . the median time between bmt and detection of viruria was 69 days , of iga 70 , of igm 62 , and of igg 88 days . the igm and iga responses lasted for 14 and 30 days ( median time ) , whereas high igg titers persisted . twelve patients developed cmv disease ; in these the appearance of viruria , iga , and igm preceded the rise of igg ( p less than .02 ) . cmv-specific iga and igm are valuable diagnostic tools in bmt recipients with recurrent cmv infection . 
susceptibility to invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease and the immunoglobulin g2m ( n ) allotype . there has been considerable controversy about the role of the immunoglobulin g2m ( n ) allotype and risk of invasive haemophilus influenzae type b ( hib ) disease . this allotype was studied in a large cohort of finnish children ( 178 ) with invasive hib disease . the g2m ( n ) allotype distribution was similar to that in the normal white finnish population . no increased risk of hib disease could be associated with the n - / n - genotype [ i.e. , lack of g2m ( n ) allotype ] . thus , the g2m ( n ) allotype does not seem to be a major determinant of susceptibility to hib infection among white populations in industrialized countries . 
preexposure of the peritoneum to live bacteria increases later mixed intraabdominal abscess formation and delays mortality . intraabdominal infections are a major source of morbidity and mortality for the trauma and postoperative patient . transient peritoneal contamination with bacteria after either intentional or unintentional violation of the gut are common . the effect of this intermittent antigen exposure upon later formation of intraabdominal abscesses is unclear . previous experiments by others have demonstrated that repeated exposure to bacteroides fragilis capsular polysaccharide can induce a t lymphocyte-mediated immunity to subsequent induction of pure b. fragilis abscess formation . in a murine mixed intraabdominal abscess model , preexposure to live escherichia coli , b. fragilis , or both increased the number of later abscesses and in some cases their bacterial composition . further , immunization with e. coli alone increased late mortality without altering overall mortality . these data suggest that the alterations of immune function produced by live , transient bacteria upon subsequent mixed intraabdominal abscess induction result in fundamentally different consequences from those observed after specific polysaccharide antigen exposure and subsequent monomicrobial abscess induction . 
changes in plasma high density lipoprotein cholesterol and phospholipid in acute viral hepatitis and cholestatic jaundice . forty-four male and female subjects aged 22-57 years were studied . thirteen patients had acute viral hepatitis , and eleven patients had cholestatic jaundice due to carcinoma of the head of the pancreas . twenty healthy volunteers who served as controls were also included . in hepatitis patients , the mean plasma levels of total cholesterol ( tc ) and the high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) - phospholipid/phospholipid ( hdlpl/pl ) ratio were reduced , and hdl-cholesterol ( hdlc ) , hdl-phospholipid ( hdlpl ) and the phospholipid/total cholesterol ( pl/tc ) ratio were normal , while total phospholipid ( pl ) levels and the hdlc/tc ratio were significantly increased compared to the control values . in patients with cholestatic jaundice the mean plasma total cholesterol , phospholipid and hdlc levels were elevated , and hdlpl/pl , hdlpl , hdlc/tc and pl/tc remained normal compared to the control values . a comparison within the patient groups showed that plasma tc , pl and hdlc levels were significantly increased in cholestatic jaundice when compared with the corresponding levels in hepatitis patients . the mean plasma levels of hdlpl , hdlc/tc and pl/tc did not show any significant variation within the patient groups . alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) correlated positively with tc , and total protein correlated negatively with tc and hdlpl , while albumin correlated negatively with tc , hdlc and hdlpl in cholestatic jaundice . alanine amino-transferase ( alat ) also correlated positively with pl in cholestatic jaundice , while albumin correlated positively with tc in hepatitis . the results suggest that lipoproteins might be metabolized differently in these two forms of cholestasis . 
sudden death and sleeping history among finnish men . an autopsy was performed in 460 consecutive cases of sudden death among 35 - to 76-year-old men . the closest cohabiting individual known to each decreased subject was interviewed . snoring history was obtained in 321 of the 371 interviews . in 86 cases there was a history of ' habitual ' ( almost always or always ) snoring , and 88 men snored ' often ' . the mean age of subjects was 55.4 years . the mean body mass index ( bmi ) was 26.3 kg m-2 . among the obese snorers ( n = 82 ) , apnoeas had been observed ' occasionally ' , ' often ' , or ' habitually ' in 49 cases . death was classified as cardiovascular in 186 ( 40.4 % ) cases . cardiovascular cause of death was more common among those who snored habitually or often than among those who snored occasionally or never ( p less than 0.05 ) . ' habitual ' snorers died more often while sleeping ( p less than 0.05 ) . habitual snoring was found to be a risk factor for morning death ( p less than 0.01 ) . the possibility of obstructive sleep apnoea as a cause of sudden death should at least be considered if the decreased is known to have been a habitual snorer . 
reconstruction of the severely atrophic edentulous mandible by means of autogenous bone grafts and simultaneous placement of osseointegrated implants . a method of reconstructing the severely atrophic mandible that simultaneously provides additional strength and the ability to house osseointegrated implants is presented . the performance of the procedure from an external approach minimizes the possibility of oral contamination and , therefore , infection . the procedure has been performed on 10 patients , with a longest follow-up of 3 years . a 93 % success rate has been achieved , and bone resorption at the implant sites has thus far been negligible . prosthetic rehabilitation has been done in 9 of the 10 cases ; 3 have been tissue-supported prostheses , and 6 have been completely implant-supported prostheses . 
synergism of herpes simplex virus and tobacco-specific n ' - nitrosamines in cell transformation . previous studies indicate that herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) enhances the carcinogenic activity of smokeless tobacco and tobacco-related chemical carcinogens in animals . since tobacco-specific n ' - nitrosamines ( tsnas ) such as n ' - nitrosonornicotine ( nnn ) and 4 - ( n-methyl-n ' - nitrosamino ) -1 - ( 3-pyridyl ) -1 - butanone ( nnk ) are major chemical carcinogens of smokeless tobacco and are known to be responsible for the development of oral cancers in smokeless tobacco users , the combined effects of tsnas and hsv in cell transformation were investigated . exposure of cells to nnn or nnk followed by virus infection resulted in a significant enhancement of transformation frequency when compared with that observed with chemical carcinogens or virus alone . this study suggests that tsnas and hsv can interact together and show synergism in cell transformation . 
immunohistochemical demonstration of keratin in ameloblastoma as an indication of tumor differentiation . keratin expression was studied immunohistochemically in 27 ameloblastomas using polyclonal antibody against wide-spectrum keratins ( ttl ) and monoclonal antibodies against lower - and higher-molecular-weight keratins ( pkk1 and kl1 ) , respectively , to clarify the tumor differentiation . reactions with ttl and kl1 antibodies were generally positive in the stellate cells of the follicular or acanthomatous ameloblastomas . cell nests of the basal cell type were positive for pkk1 . on the other hand , the reactions with ttl or kl1 in the plexiform type were generally weak or absent . from these facts , it was concluded that the follicular , as well as acanthomatous , ameloblastoma is liable to undergo squamous differentiation , whereas the plexiform ameloblastoma remains in primitive stage of tumor differentiation . 
genetic analysis as an aid in diagnosis for patients with midline carcinomas of uncertain histologies the tumors of nine patients with carcinomas of uncertain histogenesis ( eight with poorly differentiated carcinomas involving primarily midline structures and one with a diagnosis of seminoma and atypical clinical features ) were studied by cytogenetic and southern blot analyses . four of the eight patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas had abnormalities of chromosome 12 consistent with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor . these abnormalities comprised an i ( 12p ) in two patients and a del ( 12q ) in a third patient detected by cytogenetic analysis and multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis in a fourth patient . three of these four patients with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor established by genetic analysis achieved a complete response to cisplatin-based chemotherapy . the tumor biopsy of one patient showed a t ( 11 ; 22 ) ( q24 ; q12 ) , and this patient had chemotherapy directed to neuroepithelioma . cytogenetic analysis was unsuccessful for the tumors of three patients ; these tumors did not have multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis . these patients did not respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy . one patient with a diagnosis of extragonadal seminoma failed to respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy and had a second tumor biopsy performed that demonstrated a t ( 8 ; 14 ) ( q24 ; q32 ) . this patient 's diagnosis was changed to a non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . thus , genetic analysis provided a diagnosis in six of nine patients . cytogenetic and molecular analyses are useful clinical tools for the determination of histogenesis in some patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas of uncertain histology . 
disseminated human malignant melanoma in congenitally immune-deficient ( bg/nu/xid ) mice . congenitally immune-deficient bg/nu/xid ( bnx ) mice are severely compromised in their ability to mount t-cell , b-cell , and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell responses . successful engraftment of bnx mice with human hematopoietic stem cells has been demonstrated recently . we have investigated the potential use of bnx mice for studies relating to the biology and immunotherapy of human malignant melanoma . the intravenous injection of fresh single-cell suspensions of human malignant melanomas into mice resulted in widely disseminated disease . metastatic spread of human melanoma in bnx mice mimicked that observed in patients : eg , there were numerous tumor nodules identified in the subcutaneous tissues as well as in a variety of visceral organs , including spleen , kidneys , thyroid , adrenals , lungs , heart , and brain . bnx mouse lymph nodes were replaced consistently by human malignant melanoma cells . the presence of human tumor cells in these mice was confirmed by histologic analysis and microcytofluorometry analyses using human melanoma-specific monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) . moreover , human melanoma cells passaged in bnx mice remained lysable in vitro by specifically cytolytic , autologous human tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes ( tils ) . the capacity of fresh human malignant melanoma to disseminate widely in bnx mice may prove valuable not only for study of the biology of metastatic spread but also for studies of the immunotherapy of human melanoma using melanoma-specific mabs and chemotherapeutic agents , as well as human tils and lak cells with or without retrovirus-mediated gene transfer modification . 
management of urinary tract infections in children . urinary tract infection is common in children . the presentation varies with age . younger children exhibit protean signs . diagnosis is dependent on the demonstration of significant bacteriuria in a properly collected and handled urine sample . the approach to treatment depends on the degree of illness at presentation , the presence of structural urinary tract abnormalities , and the age of the patient . pathophysiology of urinary tract infection is dependent on interactive factors of the host and of the invading microorganism . urinary tract abnormalities have significant impact on the management of children with urinary tract infections , both medically and surgically . of particular importance is the observation that renal damage usually occurs within the first 5 years of life , and treatment delay in some young patients may have significant consequences . the overall prognosis in children with urinary tract infection is favorable . 
management of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infection in adults . acute uncomplicated uti is one of the most common problems for which young women seek medical attention , and it accounts for considerable morbidity and health care costs . acute cystitis is a superficial infection of the bladder mucosa , whereas pyelonephritis involves tissue invasion of the upper urinary tract . localization tests suggest that as many as one third of episodes of acute cystitis are associated with silent upper tract involvement . acute cystitis or pyelonephritis in the adult patient should be considered uncomplicated if the patient is not pregnant or elderly , if there has been no recent instrumentation or antimicrobial treatment , and if there are no known functional or anatomic abnormalities of the genitourinary tract . most of these infections are caused by e. coli , which are susceptible to many oral antimicrobials . because of the superficial nature of cystitis , single-dose and 3-day regimens have gained wide acceptance as the preferred methods of treatment . review of the published data suggests that a 3-day regimen is more effective than a single-dose regimen for all antimicrobials tested . regimens with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole appear to be more effective than those with beta-lactams , regardless of the duration . acute pyelonephritis does not necessarily imply a complicated infection . upper tract infection with highly virulent uropathogens in an otherwise healthy woman may be considered an uncomplicated infection . the optimal treatment duration for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis has not been established , and 14-day regimens are often used . we prefer to use antimicrobials that attain high renal tissue levels , such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or quinolones , for pyelonephritis . women with frequently recurring infections can be successfully managed by continuous prophylaxis , either daily or thrice-weekly , by postcoital prophylaxis , or , in compliant patients , by early self-administration of single-dose or 3-day therapy as soon as typical symptoms are noted . our drug of choice for all these regimens is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . acute uncomplicated cystitis in adult men is very uncommon , but it is occasionally noted in homosexual men who practice insertive and intercourse or in heterosexual men whose partners have vaginal colonization with e. coli . 
urinary tract infection : economic considerations . urinary tract infection results in significant morbidity and mortality while consuming large amounts of national resources . the prevention , diagnosis , and treatment of urinary tract infection produce both costs and benefits , and economic analysis provides a rational framework for looking at these effects . the goals and methods of economic analysis in medicine are summarized , and strategies to address uncomplicated cystitis , nosocomial urinary tract infection , and pyelonephritis are reviewed , with an emphasis on the economic trade-offs faced by decision makers . 
operation everest ii : ventilatory adaptation during gradual decompression to extreme altitude . to assess the ventilatory adaptation during gradual ascent to extreme altitude , we studied seven healthy males as part of the 40 d simulated ascent of mt. everest in a hypobaric chamber . we measured resting ventilation ( ve , l.min-1 ) , arterial oxygen saturation ( sao2 % ) , the ventilatory response to oxygen breathing , isocapnic hypoxic ventilatory response ( hvr ) , and hypercapnic ventilatory response ( hcvr ) at sea level prior to the ascent ( 760 torr ) , 14,000 feet ( 428 torr ) , 24,000 feet ( 305 torr ) , and within 24 h of descent ( 765 torr ) . ve increased from 9.3 + / - 1.1 l.min-1 at 760 torr to 23.4 + / - 1.3 l.min-1 at 305 torr and remained elevated at 14.7 + / - 0.7 l.min-1 after descent . oxygen breathing decreased ve by 9.6 + / - 1.3 l.min-1 at 305 torr . isocapnic hvr ( expressed as a positive slope of ve/sao2 , l.min-1 . % sao2 ( -1 ) increased from 0.18 + / - 0.07 at 760 torr to 0.34 + / - 0.11 and 0.38 + / - 0.5 at 428 torr and 305 torr ( p less than 0.05 ) respectively . hvr was elevated further upon return to sea level ( 0.8 + / - 0.09 , p less than 0.05 ) . hcvr ( s = ve/petco2 , l.min-1 . torr-1 ) increased from sea level ( s = 4.4 + / - 0.09 ) to 305 torr ( s = 18.7 + / - 3.5 , p less than 0.01 ) and remained elevated upon return to sea level ( s = 10.7 + / - 4.6 , p less than 0.001 ) . this study is the first to investigate the ventilatory response to such extreme altitude and so soon after descent and shows that hypoxic and hypercapnic responses increase during prolonged progressive hypoxic exposure and remain significantly elevated from pre-ascent levels immediately upon descent . 
activated protooncogenes in human lung tumors from smokers . fourteen primary human lung tumor dnas from smokers were analyzed for transforming activity by two dna transfection assays . activated protooncogenes were detected in 3 of 11 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 focus assay , whereas activated protooncogenes were detected in 11 of 13 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 cotransfection-nude mouse tumorigenicity assay . k - or nras genes activated by point mutation at codons 12 or 61 were detected in a large cell carcinoma , a squamous cell carcinoma , and 5 adenocarcinomas . an hras oncogene activated by a different mechanism was detected in an epidermoid carcinoma . one adenocarcinoma was found to contain an activated raf gene . two unidentified transforming genes were detected in a squamous cell carcinoma dna and two adenocarcinoma dnas . eight of 10 lung adenocarcinomas that had formed metastases at the time of surgery were found to contain ras oncogenes . no significant increase in metastasis was observed in the lung adenocarcinomas that contained one or more 6-kilobase ecori alleles of the lmyc gene . overall , 12 of 14 ( 86 % ) of the lung tumor dnas from smokers were found to contain activated protooncogenes . ras oncogenes appear to play a role in the development of metastases in lung adenocarcinomas . 
seismic communication in a blind subterranean mammal : a major somatosensory mechanism in adaptive evolution underground . seismic communication , through low-frequency and patterned substrate-borne vibrations that are generated by head thumping , and which travel long distances underground , is important in the nonvisual communication of subterranean mole rats of the spalax ehrenbergi superspecies ( 2n = 52 , 54 , 58 , and 60 ) in israel . this importance pertains both intraspecifically in adaptation and interspecifically in speciation . neurophysiologic , behavioral , and anatomic findings in this study suggest that the mechanism of long-distance seismic communication is basically somatosensory and is independent of the auditory mechanism . seismic communication thus appears to be a channel of communication important in the evolution of subterranean mammals that display major adaptation to life underground . 
mechanism of glucoregulatory responses to stress and their deficiency in diabetes . during exercise , increased energy demands are met by increased glucose production that occurs simultaneously with the increased glucose uptake . we had previously observed that , during exercise , metabolic clearance rate of glucose ( mcr ) increases markedly in normal , but only marginally in poorly controlled diabetic dogs . we wished to determine ( i ) whether in a more general model of stress matched increases in rate of appearance of glucose and mcr also occur , or if mcr is suppressed , as during catecholamine infusion ; and ( ii ) whether diabetes affects stress-induced changes in rate of glucose appearance and mcr . therefore , we injected carbachol ( 27 nmol/50 microliters ) , an analog of acetylcholine , intracerebroventricularly in seven conscious dogs before and after induction of alloxan diabetes . in normal dogs , plasma epinephrine and cortisol increased 4 - to 5-fold , whereas norepinephrine and glucagon doubled . plasma insulin , however , remained unchanged . tracer-determined hepatic glucose production increased rapidly , but transiently , by 2.5-fold . this increment can be fully explained by the observed increments in the counterregulatory hormones . surprisingly , however , mcr also promptly increased , and therefore , plasma glucose changed only marginally . after induction of diabetes , the animals were given intracerebroventricular carbachol while plasma glucose was maintained at moderate hyperglycemia ( 9.0 + / - 0.4 mm ) . increments in counterregulatory hormones were similar to those seen in normal dogs , except for exaggerated norepinephrine release . peripheral insulin levels were higher in diabetic than in normal dogs ; however , mcr was markedly reduced and the lipolytic response to stress increased , indicating insulin resistance . interestingly , the hyperglycemic response to stress was 6-fold greater in diabetic than normal animals , relating mainly to the failure of mcr to rise . plasma lactate increased equivalently in diabetic and normal animals despite suppression of mcr in the diabetics , indicating either greater muscle glycogenolysis and/or impairment in glucose oxidation . we conclude that in this stress model mcr increases as in exercise in normal but not in diabetic dogs . we speculate that glucose uptake in stress could be mediated through an insulin-dependent neural mechanism . 
clustered trna genes in schizosaccharomyces pombe centromeric dna sequence repeats . the centromere-associated b ' and b dna sequence repeats of schizosaccharomyces pombe chromosomes i and ii have been found to contain clusters of trna genes . the centromere ii region ( cen2 ) includes at least 22 trna genes distributed among five copies of the b sequence repeat containing genes specifying trna ( ile ) , trna ( ala ) , and trna ( val ) . individual b repeats are variously associated with other trna genes , including those specifying trna ( lys ) , trna ( arg ) , and trna ( glu2 ) . the centromere i region ( cen1 ) contains at least six trna genes in two copies of the b ' repeated element , including genes specifying trna ( ile ) , trna ( ala ) , and trna ( glu3 ) . multiple tandemly arranged clusters of trna genes are presumably conserved due to restricted recombination frequencies in the centromere regions . 
recombinant epstein-barr virus with small rna ( eber ) genes deleted transforms lymphocytes and replicates in vitro . strains of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) with deletions of the small rna ( eber ) genes were made by homologous recombination using the ebv p3hr-1 strain , which has undergone deletion of the essential transforming gene that encodes the ebv nuclear antigen , ebna-2 , and a dna fragment that was wild type at the ebna-2 locus but from which the eber genes had been deleted . even though the eber and ebna-2 genes are separated by 40 kilobases , selection for transforming p3hr-1 recombinants that required a restored ebna-2 gene resulted in 20 % cotransfer of the eber deletion . eber-deleted recombinants transformed primary b lymphocytes into lymphoblastoid cell lines ( lcls ) , which were indistinguishable form lcls transformed by wild-type ebv in their proliferation , in latency-associated ebv gene expression , and in their permissiveness for ebv replication cycle gene expression . eber-deleted virus from infected lcl clones could infect and growth-transform primary b lymphocytes . these procedures should be applicable to the construction of other ebv recombinants within 40 kilobases of the ebna-2 gene . the eber-deleted ebv recombinants should be useful in further evaluating the role of ebers in ebv infection . 
leukemia initiated by hemopoietic stem cells expressing the v-abl oncogene . we report a mouse model with which to study leukemogenesis initiated by a specific genetic change introduced into a primary lymphoid-myeloid pluripotent stem cell . fetal liver hemopoietic cells were infected with a high titer of helper-free abelson murine leukemia virus ( a-mulv ) and were used to reconstitute lethally irradiated mice . two weeks later , progenies of a single primitive hemopoietic stem cell carrying a specifically integrated a-mulv proviral dna could be detected in both colony-forming units in spleen and myeloid colony-forming cells in the bone marrow . beginning at 3 weeks after transplantation , the recipients developed elevated leukocyte counts , splenomegaly , and increase of blast cells in the peripheral blood . multiple clones of a-mulv-infected cells were infused into each recipient . however , in the same animal , dna extracted from various affected organs and from factor-independent lymphoid and myeloid immortalized cells all contained an identical , specifically integrated proviral genome . the a-mulv-infected stem cells differentiated into various lineages of hemopoietic cells . our data show that the expression of the v-abl oncogene in a primary lymphoid-myeloid hemopoietic stem cell directly initiates leukemogenesis by stimulating factor-independent growth . the monoclonal-type disease development seen in these animals may require the occurrence of an additional genetic event . 
quantification of midline shift as a predictor of poor outcome following head injury . a retrospective study of patient outcome , based on admission computed tomography , was carried out in 75 consecutive patients with head injury . computed tomography data collected included the type and extent of intracranial hemorrhage , the extent of midline shift , and the ratio of midline shift compared with the extent of intracranial hemorrhage . midline shift was considered to be out of proportion to intracranial hemorrhage when the midline shift of the septum pellucidum exceeded the extent of the hemorrhage as measured radially from the inner table of the skull . when computed tomography data were analyzed by logistic regression , significant predictive factors for poor outcome were intracranial hemorrhage ( 34 % ) , intracranial hemorrhage with midline shift ( 61 % ) , and midline shift out of proportion to the extent of intracranial hemorrhage ( 88 % ) . when patient outcome and mortality rates are considered , our study indicates that midline shift out of proportion to the extent of intracranial hemorrhage is a highly useful predictor of poor patient outcome following head injury . 
hydrocephalus : overdrainage by ventricular shunts . a review and recommendations . selected literature review of the clinical course of patients with ventricular shunts for hydrocephalus shows that the effects of cerebrospinal fluid overdrainage are subdural hematoma , craniosynostosis , slit ventricle syndrome , and low intracranial pressure syndrome . these occur sequentially at different age groups , but approximate averages of incidence and time of occurrence after first shunt reveal an overall incidence of 10 % -12 % for at least one of these appearing at 6.5 years after shunting . the basic etiology , diagnosis , and variety of treatment modalities available are reviewed , including the need for shunt closing intracranial pressure control . included is a hydrocephalus program designed to minimize the need for long-term extracranial shunts and to maximize therapeutic intracranial procedures for hydrocephalus . 
unusually late onset of cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea after head trauma . two cases of acute meningitis and cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea , in which the head trauma responsible occurred 10 and 30 years before , are presented . intraoperatively , the brain parenchyma was found to be plugged into the fractured anterior fossa . by debridement and duraplasty from an intradural approach , both patients were cured . several precipitating factors could be responsible for this unusually late reopening of the fistula . the possible accidental causes could be coughing or undetected microtraumas , but in the long run , atrophy of tissues and consequent changes in brain compliance with aging may play a role . 
solitary , isolated metastasis from ewing 's sarcoma to the brain : case report . we report a case of a 30-year-old woman who developed an intraparenchymal cerebral metastasis from a ewing 's sarcoma of the chest wall diagnosed and treated 3 years earlier and in apparent remission at the time of the neurological presentation ( seizures ) . the case was complicated by a spontaneous preoperative intratumoral hemorrhage that occurred the morning of the scheduled surgical resection and caused a left dense hemiparesis . the tumor and the hematoma were removed . the patient improved after surgical intervention and a postoperative course of cranial irradiation followed by systemic chemotherapy was given . nineteen months after treatment the patient remains disease-free from the clinical and radiological standpoint . 
relationship of transfusion and infectious complications after gastric carcinoma operations . to determine the effect of transfusion on the incidence of postoperative infection , a retrospective cohort study of 196 patients who underwent surgery for gastric carcinoma in the period from 1985 through 1989 was carried out . seventy-one patients ( 36.2 % ) developed postoperative septic complications ; they had received an average of 4.2 blood units , as compared with 2.7 units received by patients not affected ( p less than 0.0053 ) . the hypothesis of dose-response relationship is supported by the mantel-haenszel test , as applied to the overall results ( p less than 0.01 ) and the results grouped by duration of operation ( p less than 0.02 ) . furthermore , logistic regression analysis shows transfusion to be an independent risk factor in the incidence of infection ( p less than 0.01 ) , as are antibiotic prophylaxis ( p less than 0.015 ) , urinary tract catheterization ( p less than 0.002 ) , and the duration of surgery ( p less than 0.027 ) . this significance is attained after adjustment for age , gender , period of evolution of symptoms ; preoperative infection ( s ) , number of white cells , hemoglobin level and total proteins on diagnosis , location of tumor , tumor , nodes , and metastasis staging , operative technique , drainage of the area of operation , enteral nutrition , and the histologic studies and macroscopic appearance of the tumor . this study is further evidence that transfusion may cause an increased incidence of postoperative infection . 
lack of increased bleeding after paracentesis and thoracentesis in patients with mild coagulation abnormalities . to determine whether untreated mild coagulopathy in patients with no evidence of clinical bleeding is associated with an increased risk of hemorrhage after paracentesis or thoracentesis , retrospective examination was conducted of 608 consecutive procedures for which prothrombin time ( pt ) , partial thromboplastin time ( ptt ) , platelet ( plt ) counts , and preprocedure and postprocedure hemoglobin concentrations were available . there was no increased bleeding in patients with mild to moderate coagulopathy ( defined as pt or ptt up to twice the midpoint normal range or pit count of 50 to 99 x 10 ( 3 ) per microl [ 50-99 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ] ) . however , patients with markedly elevated serum creatinine levels ( 6.0 to 14.0 mg/dl [ 530-1240 mumol/l ] ) had a significantly greater average hemoglobin loss ( -0.82 + / - 1.3 g/dl [ -8 + / - 13 g/l ] , n = 11 ) than patients with normal serum creatinine levels ( -0.12 + / - 0.88 g/dl [ -1 + / - 9 g/l ] , n = 450 ) ( p = 0.011 ) . overall , the frequency of bleeding complications requiring red cell transfusions was very low : 0.2 percent of events . the most common diagnosis for patients who had paracentesis was alcoholic liver disease ( 72 % ) ; for those having thoracentesis , it was infection ( 37 % ) . it can be concluded that , for these patients , prophylactic plasma or platelet transfusions are not necessary . patients with markedly elevated serum creatinine deserve close postprocedure observation . 
hemolytic transfusion reaction following transfusion of frozen and washed autologous red cells a case of hemolytic transfusion reaction , accompanied by hypotension and followed by transient renal failure , occurred after the transfusion of 1 unit of previously frozen autologous red cells . subsequent investigation revealed the probable cause of the hemolysis to be inadequate deglycerolization of the unit . the cause of the associated symptoms is unknown . possibilities include nephrotoxic effects of hemoglobin or stroma , toxic effects of glycerol , or release of vasoactive or thrombogenic substances from lysed red cells . this case of a hemolytic reaction adds to the known risks of autologous transfusion . 
reversal of cardiac and vascular hypertrophy by antihypertensive therapy . cardiovascular hypertrophy , such as left ventricular hypertrophy , and arteriolar hypertrophic changes are common in established hypertension . left ventricular hypertrophy , in particular , markedly increases the risk of cardiovascular complications and death . the ability of an antihypertensive agent to reverse hypertrophic changes could , therefore , be greatly advantageous . clinical studies with beta-blockers have shown them able to substantially reduce left ventricular hypertrophy . for reversal of arteriolar hypertrophy , vasodilatory beta-blockers have been shown to be preferable to ordinary beta-blockers , possibly because vasodilation reduces vascular smooth-muscle tone , which may facilitate reversal of hypertrophy . theoretically , a vasodilatory beta-blocker , such as celiprolol , would therefore appear to offer advantages because of its ability to reverse left ventricular and arteriolar hypertrophy in addition to its antihypertensive action . the practical and clinical effects of cardiovascular hypertrophy reversal remain to be fully evaluated ; however , it is logical to assume that they would be of considerable benefit to the hypertensive patient . 
granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma . their distinction with the use of immunohistochemical methods . granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma can mimic each other both clinically and histologically . to develop criteria useful in resolving problem cases , the authors compared the reactivities of these conditions ( nine cases of granulomatous prostatitis and six cases of poorly differentiated carcinoma ) with a panel of antibodies to cytokeratin ( ae1/3 ) , prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) , prostatic acid phosphatase ( pap ) , lysozyme , antimacrophage m , and leukocyte common antigen ( lca ) . in granulomatous prostatitis , histiocytes were not immunoreactive for pap , psa , or cytokeratin ; however , histiocytes reacted to lysozyme in nine of nine cases , antimacrophage m in seven of nine cases , and lca in one of nine cases . tumor cells from all six carcinoma cases reacted with pap , psa , and cytokeratin ; all failed to react with lysozyme , lca , and antimacrophage m. the authors conclude that granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated carcinoma can be reliably distinguished with immunohistochemical methods . 
serum enzyme alterations in chronic muscle disease . a biopsy-based diagnostic assessment . the results of interpretation of muscle biopsies were compared retrospectively to activities of serum enzymes and isoenzymes . a total of 137 patients seen at the cleveland clinic foundation in 1986 and 1987 were included in this study . serum enzymes evaluated were ck , ast , ld , and aldolase ( als ) , as well as the percentage ck-mb isoenzyme . the units of ck-mb and the ratios of ck to ast , ld , and als were calculated . descriptive statistics , kruskal-wallis one-way analysis of variance , and stepwise logistic regression were performed . a diagnostic algorithm was constructed using a computer-assisted rule generation program . myopathic diseases yielded a greater mean increase in serum enzyme activity than atrophic diseases . by multivariate stepwise logistic regression , increases in serum ast and ck activity were independently associated with the presence of inflammation in a muscle biopsy specimen . the diagnostic algorithm allowed for the separation of myopathies from atrophies and could identify cases of duchenne 's muscular dystrophy and polymyositis . 
antivenom therapy in russell 's viper bite . bleeding and renal failure are the two main manifestations responsible for the high morbidity and mortality in untreated russell 's viper bite victims . this study was an effort to find prognostic factors and a practical therapeutic approach for the care of such patients . early detection of abnormalities in the clot quality test and/or evidence of systemic bleeding followed by immediate correction of the clotting defects using specific antivenom can reduce morbidity in russell 's viper envenomation . 
hemodynamic effects of partial correction of chronic anemia by recombinant human erythropoietin in patients on dialysis . eighteen patients on chronic hemodialysis with renal anemia were treated with recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) . hemodynamic parameters in the resting state were determined before and after successful treatment . posttreatment cardiac index was decreased ( 3.3 v 2.8 l/min/m2 ) , whereas diastolic blood pressure ( 72 v 79 mm hg ) and calculated peripheral resistance ( 2,230 v 2,860 dyne.cm.s-5 ) were increased significantly when compared with the pretreatment period . we conclude from our study that the increase of blood pressure as seen in patients on dialysis , who are effectively treated with r-huepo , is due to an increase in peripheral resistance . this increase overrules the decrease of cardiac index and might well be a result of peripheral vasoconstriction due to improved oxygen availability . 
recurrent peritonitis : evidence for possible viral etiology . a 45-year-old woman who was treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) developed recurrent peritonitis characterized by cloudy effluents , elevated white blood cell ( wbc ) counts ( predominantly lymphocytes ) , and negative culture results . this case report suggests that she may have had viral peritonitis as indicated by a positive viral culture , the presence of viral antibodies in serum and peritoneal dialysis effluent ( pde ) , hematological findings , and cell surface receptor studies . the possibility of a viral cause should be considered in patients with culture-negative peritonitis , especially if they do not respond to antibiotics . 
idiopathic neutropenia : antineutrophil antibodies and clinical correlations . purpose : the present study was done to evaluate the clinical characteristics of a large series of adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia , and correlate the presence of antineutrophil antibodies , their class ( igg or igm ) , and their ability to fix complement with clinical parameters , including other hemocytopenias , splenomegaly , and infections . patients and methods : one hundred twenty-one adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia were studied . serum neutrophil-binding antibodies were measured using paraformaldehyde-fixed granulocytes ( pfgs ) from normal volunteers as target cells . 125i-labeled staphylococcal protein a was used to detect igg antibodies while igm antibodies were detected by using 125i-labeled mouse monoclonal anti-igm antibody . sera containing antineutrophil antibodies were tested for their ability to fix complement on donor pfgs by using 125i-labeled monoclonal antibody to the third component of complement . results : of the 121 patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia , 71 patients had isolated neutropenia , while 50 had neutropenia combined with either anemia and/or thrombocytopenia . among the 71 patients with isolated neutropenia , there were 51 females ( 72 % ) , compared with 28 females ( 56 % ) among the 50 patients with combined hemocytopenias ( p = 0.083 ) . patients with multiple hemocytopenias were significantly older ( p less than 0.01 ) , were more likely to demonstrate splenomegaly ( p = 0.001 ) , and may have had more infectious complications . from all the patients , 36 % of sera were shown to have antineutrophil antibodies , with a non-significant trend for these to be found more frequently in patients with multiple hemocytopenias . sera with mixed igg-igm antineutrophil antibodies were significantly more likely to fix complement than those with isolated igg or igm antibodies , and among the patients with antineutrophil antibodies , complement-fixing antibodies were significantly associated with multiple hemocytopenias . splenomegaly was significantly associated both with antineutrophil antibodies ( p = 0.008 ) and with infections ( p = 0.007 ) . antineutrophil antibodies were not associated with infections . conclusions : approximately one third of adult patients with idiopathic neutropenia have igg and/or igm antineutrophil antibodies demonstrable in their serum . there is a subset of patients with idiopathic neutropenia with multiple hemocytopenias who tend to be older , less likely to show female predominance , more likely to have splenomegaly and infections , and more likely to have antineutrophil antibodies , especially mixed igg-igm and complement-fixing antibodies . 
characteristics of natural antibody responses to the circumsporozoite protein of plasmodium vivax . the antibody response to the prototype circumsporozoite ( cs ) protein of plasmodium vivax ( cspv ) was studied in thai soldiers experiencing occupational malaria . seventy-four ( 65 % ) of 114 men followed during assignment to a malaria transmission area developed blood-stage infection with p. vivax . igg antibodies against the central repeat region of the cspv protein were quantitated by elisa using the recombinant protein , ns181v20 , as the capture antigen . one quarter of the subjects had detectable anti-cspv antibodies at the beginning of the study . cspv antibody seroconversion was documented in 16 of 26 subjects assessed during their first observed episodes of vivax malaria . this antibody response was of moderate magnitude , fell off after the first week post-diagnosis and appeared , at the low levels observed , to be unassociated with protection . continued assessment of anti-cspv antibody after subjects left the transmission area found no increase associated with release of p. vivax . these findings indicate that cs antibody responses to p. vivax during occupational malaria share many characteristics with responses to p. falciparum . 
venomous snakebite in eastern ecuador . treatment outcome of 294 hospitalized victims of snakebite injuries in eastern ecuador are reported , documenting high rates of morbidity and mortality . one or more major complications occurred in 25 % of patients . complications included blood loss severe enough to require transfusion ( 29 patients ) , abscess ( 26 patients ) , intracranial hemorrhage ( 15 patients ) and major tissue loss ( 10 patients ) . sixteen patients died , yielding a mortality rate of 5.4 % . death resulted from intracranial hemorrhage in 12 patients and from sequelae of hypovolemic shock in 4 patients . 
ketamine as analgesic for total intravenous anaesthesia with propofol . a prospective study of 18 patients who underwent noncardiac surgery was performed to study the use of ketamine as an analgesic during total intravenous anaesthesia with propofol . a comparison was made with the combination propofol/fentanyl . the propofol/ketamine combination resulted in haemodynamically stable anaesthesia without the need for additional analgesics . postoperative behaviour was normal in all patients and none of the patients reported dreaming during or after the operation . propofol seems to be effective in eliminating side effects of a subanaesthetic dose of ketamine in humans . we recommend the propofol/ketamine combination for total intravenous anaesthesia for surgery when stable haemodynamics are required . 
emergency adenotonsillectomy for acute postoperative upper airway obstruction peri-operative acute upper airway obstruction may be life-threatening . a case is reported of a child with severe adenotonsillar hypertrophy who developed acute upper airway obstruction after a routine surgical procedure and required emergency adenotonsillectomy . the importance of pre-operative assessment is stressed . 
the role of a critical care unit in an epidemic . the role of a critical care unit in life-threatening situations is well established . the management of 52 children with acute gastroenteritis and 22 children with acute paralytic poliomyelitis as part of recent epidemics is described . the solutions to the problems in the critical care management of these 74 victims ( out of a total of 6197 patients admitted during the epidemics ) are discussed . 
awareness during caesarean section . between 1982 and 1989 over 3000 patients were questioned about recall and dreaming after general anaesthesia for caesarean section . some 28 ( 0.9 % ) patients were able to recall something of their operation and 189 ( 6.1 % ) reported dreams . there was uniform adherence to a rigid anaesthetic protocol up to and including 1985 , but a much publicized incident reported from the courtroom stimulated a relaxation of this regimen . consequently the incidence of awareness decreased from 1.3 % to 0.4 % , and the incidence of dreaming was also reduced . recollections of surgery were confined to manipulations , noises and voices . none of our patients complained of pain at the time of interview , although one since has . the inadequacies of the initial protocol and an approach to informed consent are discussed . 
flexion-extension views in the evaluation of cervical-spine injuries . study objective : to determine the efficacy of flexion-extension ( f/e ) cervical-spine radiographs in detecting acute cervical-spine instability in emergency patients . design : we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 141 consecutive trauma patients who had f/e views performed after a routine cervical-spine series ( three views ) was obtained in the emergency department . interpretations of the routine series were compared with those of the f/e views to determine if additional useful information was provided by the latter . the charts also were reviewed to determine if any variables were associated with an increased use of f/e views , an increased likelihood of these views demonstrating instability , or any neurologic sequelae resulted from these studies . setting : an urban level i adult trauma center . measurements : the interpretations of the routine series were noted to be either normal , abnormal but without demonstrable fracture/dislocation , or demonstrating a fracture/dislocation . the f/e views were categorized as stable , unstable , or uninterpretable . results : cervical-spine instability was demonstrated by f/e views in 11 of the 141 patients ( 8 % ) , four of whom had normal routine cervical-spine films . three of these four patients required surgical stabilization . prolonged neck pain ( more than 24 hours ) , an initially abnormal spine series , and a neurosurgical consult were all associated with an increased use of f/e views . ten of 11 patients with radiographic instability had significant neck pain by history ; the remaining patient was intoxicated . no neurologic sequelae resulted from performing f/e studies . there was one false-negative f/e study , which raises concern about the reliability of this procedure in the ed . conclusion : we believe that a large prospective study is required to determine which patients warrant f/e views . 
treatment of decompensated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in the emergency department -- correlation between clinical features and prognosis . study objective : patients with decompensated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) are at high risk of relapse after treatment in an emergency department . the purpose of this study was to determine if the risk of relapse correlates with the clinical features of the disease . patients : three hundred fifty-two patients with documented copd who were treated for dyspnea in the ed of the albuquerque veterans administration medical center over a three-year period . methods : we reviewed the clinical features and pulmonary function tests of the patients , who were considered to have copd if the baseline prebronchodilator one-second forced expiratory volume ( fev1 ) was less than 80 % predicted , and less than 80 % of the forced vital capacity and inhaled bronchodilators failed to increase the fev1 to levels of more than 80 % predicted . visits for pneumonia , pneumothorax , pleural effusion , or pulmonary emboli were excluded . a relapse was defined as an unscheduled revisit to the ed within 14 days of initial treatment . data were entered into a microcomputer data base and analyzed by a commercial statistical package . results : of 877 visits in which the patient was treated and released from the ed , 281 ( 32.0 % ) resulted in relapse and were considered unsuccessful compared with successful visits , unsuccessful visits were characterized by a shorter duration of dyspnea ( p = .002 ) , a lower entry fev1 ( p = .027 ) , a lower discharge fev1 ( p = .040 ) , a greater number of treatments with nebulized bronchodilators ( p = .009 ) , more frequent use of parenteral adrenergic drugs ( p = .006 ) , and less frequent use of oral prednisone on discharge ( p = .016 ) . patients with one or more relapse visits during the study period ( relapsers ) differed from nonrelapsers in several respects . relapsers had a greater bronchodilator response on baseline fev1 than nonrelapsers ( p = .047 ) . nevertheless , relapsers required more bronchodilator treatments in the ed ( p less than .001 ) ; were treated more frequently with parenteral adrenergic drugs ( p less than .001 ) , iv glucocorticoids ( p less than .001 ) , and oral prednisone ( p less than .001 ) ; and recovered less of their baseline fev1 ( p less than .014 ) . conclusion : bronchodilator response on baseline pulmonary function testing appears to identify patients with copd who have a poor prognosis after emergency treatment . their poor response to intensive bronchodilator treatment suggests that loss of bronchodilator response may be involved in the pathogenesis of respiratory decompensation . 
toxicology screening of the trauma patient : a changing profile . study objectives : to determine the current ingestants found in the multiply injured trauma patient and to determine if this select group of ingestants affected the resuscitation , evaluation , or convalescent management of these patients . design : a one-year retrospective analysis was performed on all patients who were admitted to an urban trauma center with a discharge diagnosis of multiple trauma and who received a comprehensive toxicology screening test . main results : one hundred twenty-seven of the 177 patients ( 72 % ) who fulfilled the criteria had positive toxicology screens . ethyl alcohol was the only drug present in 26 of these patients ( 20 % ) ; 57 ( 45 % ) were positive for drugs other than ethyl alcohol . a combination of ethyl alcohol and at least one other drug was quantified in 44 patients ( 35 % ) . the most often encountered substances were ethyl alcohol ( 55 % ) , marijuana ( 24 % ) , and cocaine ( 21 % ) . twelve drug screens ( 9 % ) demonstrated pharmaceuticals ( eg , acetylsalicylic acid , acetaminophen , or cyclic antidepressants ) that may require specific antidotal treatment . conclusion : the ingestant profile found in this subgroup of trauma patients differed from those of previous studies . although a select group of these ingestants requires specific treatment or affects the physical assessment of the patient , none of these trauma patients received more than supportive care . 
incidence of cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis . study hypothesis : rhabdomyolysis is a common complication of cocaine use , and muscle symptoms fail to predict its development . study population : a prospective , convenience sample of patients presenting to the emergency department of a large inner-city hospital with complaints related to cocaine use were eligible for inclusion . patients were excluded if they had other potential causes of elevated creatine kinase ( ck ) levels or rhabdomyolysis . a control group comprised patients who were not cocaine users and satisfied the exclusion criteria . sixty-eight patients were studied . methods : initial evaluation included determination of the presence of muscle pain or swelling and total ck levels . patients with a ck level of more than 800 u/l had additional tests , including a urine myoglobin , urine drug screen , and serum phosphorus . rhabdomyolysis was defined by a serum ck level of more than 1,000 u/l ( more than fivefold that of normal ) . ck levels were compared by two-tailed student 's t test . muscle symptoms were compared with the development of rhabdomyolysis by fisher 's exact test . results : the ck level in the cocaine group was 931 + / - 1,785 u/l ( mean + / - 1 sd ) . the ck level in the control group was 242 + / - 168 u/l ( p = .028 ) . of the cocaine users , 24 % ( eight of 34 ) had rhabdomyolysis ; one developed multiorgan failure and died . no patient in the control group had a ck level of more than 1,000 u/l . only one cocaine user who developed rhabdomyolysis had muscle symptoms . three cocaine users had muscle symptoms but did not develop rhabdomyolysis . no patient in the control group had muscle symptoms or developed rhabdomyolysis . muscle symptoms did not predict the ck level ( p = .55 ) . conclusion : this study revealed that 24 % of the cocaine users had rhabdomyolysis . many of the cases of rhabdomyolysis were not predictable from history or physical examination , making laboratory evaluation essential . 
china white epidemic : an eastern united states emergency department experience . study objective : the purpose of this study was to isolate significant clinical or demographic findings concerning overdose patients treated during a china white ( 3-methyl fentanyl ) epidemic and compare them with data for all unintentional narcotic overdose patients during a 24-month period . design : we reviewed charts from 85,246 patient visits to our emergency department during the 24-month period of january 1987 through december 1988 to study this narcotic epidemic . data from the allegheny county coroner 's office pertaining to unintentional drug overdose deaths that occurred during this same period also were reviewed . setting : the first outbreak of narcotic overdoses in the eastern united states involving china white occurred in allegheny county , pennsylvania , in 1988 . type of participants : patients were included if they met the criteria of a suspected unintentional narcotic overdose , but excluded if they were not given naloxone . interventions : emergency physicians became suspicious of china white use after an unusual increase in narcotic overdoses presenting to the ed coupled with " routine drug of abuse " screens negative for opiates despite dramatic patient responses to naloxone . in most of the cases in which specific testing was done , there were positive indicators of fentanyl derivatives . investigations found china white present in street drugs and paraphernalia . measurements and main results : a cluster was defined as a time period with a statistically significant increase in overdoses over the expected number for an interval of equal length . although there were no significant clinical differences in case presentation during the 24-month period , there was a statistically significant 13-fold increase in overdoses during the september through november 1988 cluster ( mean , 13 vs 0.95 per month , p less than .001 by wilcoxon rank-sum test ) . a dramatic increase in unintentional drug overdose deaths occurred in the county during this cluster . a total of 18 fentanyl-positive unintentional drug overdose deaths , predominantly male ( 89 % ) and black ( 56 % ) , with an age range of 19 to 44 years ( mean , 34.9 years ) , were reported by the county coroner ( 13 during the cluster ) . narcotic overdoses and unintentional drug overdose deaths declined sharply with confiscation of a clandestine china white laboratory . conclusions : china white was responsible for a dramatic rise in unintentional drug overdose deaths in allegheny county in 1988 . there were no significant clinical differences between china white overdose survivors and other unintentional narcotic overdose victims . overdoses responsive to naloxone with inconsistent routine toxicologic screens may be due to a fentanyl analogue . 
ultrasound for the detection of foreign bodies . study objective : to determine the ability of an emergency physician to detect a variety of foreign bodies in an experimental model using a portable ultrasound device . design : ten pieces of beef were sliced into cubes approximately 6 cm on each side . six different groups of foreign bodies were examined : gravel , cactus spine , glass , metal , wood , and plastic . an independent observer placed the objects in a random fashion into the beef cubes . one hundred twenty observations were made using sets of ten beef cubes at a time . five foreign bodies were placed into each set of ten beef cubes . interventions : a blinded emergency physician used a portable ultrasound with a 7.5-mhz transducer to determine the presence or absence of a foreign body in each cube . measurements and main results : ultrasound detected 59 of 60 foreign bodies , including all cubes of meat embedded with gravel , cactus spine , plastic , metal , and wood . glass was detected nine of ten times . of the 60 cubes of meat with no foreign bodies , one false-positive was recorded . this yielded sensitivity , specificity , positive predictive value , and negative predictive value of 98 % . positive determinations by ultrasound were significantly greater in the meat cubes with foreign bodies compared with the control group with no foreign bodies ( p less than .001 by chi 2 ) . although the subset of glass foreign bodies had one false-positive and one false-negative , it was not significantly different in comparison with the other groups ( p greater than .05 by chi 2 ) . conclusion : ultrasound has promise as a diagnostic tool for the detection of a variety of foreign bodies . further clinical studies using ultrasound for the detection of foreign bodies are warranted . 
poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker . phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal , anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals . its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer , safer drugs . we report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache . he developed grand mal seizures , coma , hypotension , respiratory and renal failure , and hepatic injury . serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/ml . the patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis . 
multiple cranial nerve deficits after ethylene glycol poisoning . we report the cases of two patients who developed cranial nerve palsies after drinking ethylene glycol . a 33-year-old man developed multiple cranial nerve deficits nine days after the ingestion of ethylene glycol in a suicide attempt . clinical findings included profound bilateral cranial nerve vii palsies and severe dysfunction of cranial nerves ix and x. the neuropathy occurred despite treatment with hemodialysis . the dysphagia completely cleared within two weeks , but at six months a severe bilateral cranial nerve vii dysfunction persisted . a 22-year-old man undergoing hemodialysis for ethylene glycol-induced renal failure developed bilateral cranial nerve vii dysfunction 14 days after ingestion . at a three-month follow-up , the patient demonstrated only moderate functional recovery . the etiology of the cranial nerve deficits is unknown but may be related to oxalate crystal deposition of ethylene glycol-induced pyridoxine dysfunction . 
estimation of myocardial ischemic injury during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest using high-energy phosphates and lactate as metabolic markers . study objective : to define the time course of myocardial ischemic injury using high-energy phosphate ( hep ) depletion and the cessation of lactate production as metabolic markers . setting : data were collected in a laboratory animal model . type of participants : ten immature mixed breed swine weighing 23.2 + / - 3.5 kg . design : after thoracotomy , transmural myocardial biopsies were taken in vivo during normal sinus rhythm and at designated times during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest ( vf-tca ) . measurements and main results : frozen tissue samples were analyzed for adenine nucleotides , by high-performance liquid chromatography , and lactate by enzymatic assay . at five minutes of vf-tca , myocardial adenosine triphosphate averaged 50 % of control . at 15 minutes of vf-tca , 89 % of animals had myocardial adenosine triphosphate levels above 20 % of control and adenylate charge ratio above 0.60 . with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca , all animals had adenosine triphosphate levels below 10 % of control and adenylate charge ratio below 0.30 . in addition , myocardial lactate levels plateaued after 30 minutes of vf-tca , indicating the cessation of lactate production . conclusion : these results suggest that the myocardium can tolerate vf-tca for as long as 15 minutes without irreversible injury ; however , post-ischemic myocardial dysfunction may occur after as little as five minutes of vf-tca . with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca , myocardial injury is likely to be irreversible . 
the empiric use of naloxone in patients with altered mental status : a reappraisal . study objective : to determine whether clinical criteria ( respirations of 12 or less , mitotic pupils , and circumstantial evidence of opiate abuse ) could predict response to naloxone in patients with acute alteration of mental status ( ams ) and to evaluate whether such criteria predict a final diagnosis of presence or absence of opiate overdose as accurately as response to naloxone . cases and setting : seven hundred thirty patients with ams who received naloxone for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes at the discretion of two large , urban , paramedic base teaching hospitals . methods : we reviewed paramedic run sheets and audiotapes on all 730 patients as well as available hospital records of all patients who demonstrated any response to naloxone to determine whether overdose was responsible for their clinical presentations . we also reviewed hospital records for a selected sample of naloxone nonresponders . main results and conclusion : only 25 patients ( 3.4 % ) demonstrated a complete response to naloxone , whereas 32 ( 4.4 % ) manifested a partial or equivocal response . nineteen of 25 complete responders ( 76 % ) , two of 26 partial responders ( 8 % ) ( with known final diagnosis ) , and four of 195 non-responders ( 2 % ) ( with known final diagnosis ) were ultimately diagnosed as having overdosed . respirations of 12 or less or the presence of any one of the three clinical findings as a group were each highly sensitive in predicting response to naloxone , and at least as sensitive as response to naloxone in predicting a diagnosis of opiate overdose . selective administration of naloxone for ams would have decreased the use of this drug by 75 % to 90 % while still administering it to virtually all naloxone responders who had a final diagnosis of opiate overdose . 
postpartum amaurosis . blindness is a rare but dramatic complication of pregnancy and delivery . we present the case of a patient who developed toxemia at the time of delivery that with ineffective treatment resulted in cortical blindness without seizure activity . the pathogenesis as well as the diagnostic workup and treatment of this unusual complication are discussed . 
the functional anatomy of motor recovery after stroke in humans : a study with positron emission tomography . we have studied regional cerebral blood flow changes in 6 patients after their recovery from a first hemiplegic stroke . all had a single well-defined hemispheric lesion and at least a brachial monoparesis that subsequently recovered . each patient had 6 measurements of cerebral blood flow by positron tomography with 2 scans at rest , 2 during movement of fingers of the recovered hand , and 2 during movement of fingers of the normal hand . when the normal fingers were moved , regional cerebral blood flow increased significantly in contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex and in the ipsilateral cerebellar hemisphere . when the fingers of the recovered hand were moved , significant regional cerebral blood flow increases were observed in both contralateral and ipsilateral primary sensorimotor cortex and in both cerebellar hemispheres . other regions , namely , insula , inferior parietal , and premotor cortex , were also bilaterally activated with movement of the recovered hand . we have also demonstrated , by using a new technique of image analysis , different functional connections between the thalamic nuclei and specific cortical and cerebellar regions during these movements . our results suggest that ipsilateral motor pathways may play a role in the recovery of motor function after ischemic stroke . 
acceleration of scrapie in trisomy 16 ---- diploid aggregation chimeras . we studied the susceptibility to prion infection of the trisomy 16 ---- diploid chimeric mouse , a putative model of down syndrome . when weanling chimeras were inoculated intracerebrally with scrapie prions , the time until appearance of the first symptoms of scrapie was reduced by 17 days ( from a mean control time of 153 days ) and the time to death was reduced by 30 days ( from control time of 170 days ) . our results with trisomy 16 chimeras argue that the susceptibility to central nervous system degeneration caused by prions can be modulated by chromosome imbalance . 
association of pneumothorax and hypotension with intraventricular haemorrhage . to test the hypothesis that acute hypotension resulting from pneumothorax would be associated with severe brain injury ( grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage ) , 67 very low birthweight ( vlbw ) infants of 32 weeks ' gestation or less with respiratory distress syndrome and pneumothorax were studied . thirty six had pneumothorax associated with systemic hypotension and 31 had pneumothorax with normal blood pressure . the groups were similar in gestational age and severity of their respiratory distress syndrome . thirty two of 36 of infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension ( 89 % ) had grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage . this percentage was significantly greater than the percentage for infants with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure ( three of 31 , 10 % ) . the risk ratio for grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage for infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension was 9.8 compared with neonates with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure . these observations are consistent with the hypothesis that systemic hypotension and cerebral hypoperfusion are important factors leading to intraventricular haemorrhage in vlbw infants . 
prolonged low dose indomethacin for persistent ductus arteriosus of prematurity . a total of 121 infants who required indomethacin for persistent ductus arteriosus in liverpool and cambridge over a four year period were randomised to receive either 0.1 mg/kg daily for six days or 0.2 mg/kg every 12 hours for three doses . the groups were of similar birth weight and gestational and postnatal age , though those treated with a low dose were by chance receiving a higher percentage of oxygen at the start of treatment and there were more deaths from bronchopulmonary dysplasia in this group . of 59 infants treated with the prolonged course 53 ( 90 % ) responded initially to indomethacin compared with 48 of 62 ( 77 % ) treated conventionally -- a difference of 13 % ( 95 % confidence interval for the difference 0 to 26 % ) . of the 53 responders 11 ( 21 % ) relapsed after low dose indomethacin , whereas after the shorter course 19 of 48 ( 40 % ) relapsed . this difference was significant ( 95 % confidence intervals 3 to 37 % ) . side effects , mainly gastrointestinal haemorrhage , were similar in both groups . significantly fewer infants experienced a rise in serum creatinine or urea concentration after treatment with low dose indomethacin . a prolonged low dose course of indomethacin offers advantages over conventional treatment . 
doppler assessment of pulmonary artery pressure and extrapulmonary shunting in the acute phase of hyaline membrane disease . the natural history of pulmonary artery pressure and extrapulmonary shunting in acute hyaline membrane disease was studied by serial doppler echocardiography in 57 preterm infants , 38 with , and 19 without , hyaline membrane disease . pulmonary artery pressure was assessed non-invasively by its inverse relationship with the ratio of pulmonary artery doppler time to peak velocity : right ventricular ejection time . the mean ratio was significantly lower in the infants with hyaline membrane disease . the mean ratio for each infant with hyaline membrane disease varied widely and did not correlate with criteria of maturity or severity of disease . individual ratios correlated with arterial ph. between 60-80 hours after birth , 14 of 18 infants with hyaline membrane disease ( 78 % ) and one of 19 without ( 5 % ) had patent ductus arteriosus . left to right and bidirectional shunting at ductal and atrial level were common ; pure right to left shunting was uncommon . the mean ratio seen with bidirectional shunting was significantly lower than that seen with left to right shunting . ratios and patterns of extra pulmonary shunting were similar when the fractional inspired oxygen ( fio2 ) was greater than 0.9 compared with when it was less than 0.9 . pulmonary artery pressure is high during the acute phase of hyaline membrane disease but varies widely among infants . a few infants have extrapulmonary right to left shunting , and these infants are difficult to detect clinically . 
national institute of mental health longitudinal study of chronic schizophrenia . prognosis and predictors of outcome [ published erratum appears in arch gen psychiatry 1991 jul ; 48 ( 7 ) :642 ] we performed a longitudinal study of chronic schizophrenic patients who were hospitalized for research purposes at the national institute of mental health ( nimh ) intramural program in the 1970s and early 1980s . we assessed present course , outcome and predictor data from the initial cohort of 58 young chronic schizophrenic patients who were followed up for 2 to 12 years following their nimh index hospitalization . at follow-up , the sample showed substantial functional impairment and levels of symptoms with only about 20 % of the sample demonstrating a good outcome . in addition , strong intercorrelation was noted among the symptom and functioning indexes at follow-up . moreover , neuropsychologic tests of frontal cortical functioning were significantly correlated with outcome levels of negative symptoms and social functioning but not with levels of positive symptoms . during the period from the index hospitalization to the follow-up assessment , 78 % of the sample suffered a relapse , 38 % attempted suicide and 24 % had episodes of major affective illness . furthermore , levels of positive and negative symptoms ascertained when patients received optimal neuroleptic treatment during the index hospitalization significantly predicted outcome levels of symptoms and functioning and time spent hospitalized during the follow-up period . in contrast , levels of index positive and negative symptoms ascertained during the drug-free state did not predict outcome symptoms or functioning . these data suggest that treatment response is a critical predictor variable . we examined the implication of these data for the course of illness in schizophrenics . 
posthospital course and outcome in schizophrenia . to study the early course of schizophrenia , we assessed 79 early phase , young , dsm-iii schizophrenic patients at two successive posthospital follow-ups , 2.5 and 5.0 years after index hospitalization . more than 50 % of the sample had poor overall outcome , with either severe impairment in functioning and symptoms , or suicide , in the follow-up period . rehospitalization rates decreased significantly during the course of the two posthospital assessments , despite the sample showing persisting psychosis . only a small group of schizophrenic patients showed complete remission : 10 % at the first follow-up and 17 % at the second follow-up , when patients who suicided are excluded from consideration . while progressive deterioration is not common in schizophrenia , our relatively negative findings challenge the conclusions of some other longitudinal studies . implications of our data on schizophrenic course are discussed . 
experience with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) in patients with renal impairment . digibind is a purified antigen binding fragment ( fab ) of immunoglobulin g antibodies raised to bind digoxin . studies in animals suggest renal excretion accounts for a substantial portion of fab 's elimination . thus it is expected that elimination of antidigoxin fab fragments would be prolonged in patients with renal impairment ; it remains unclear whether digoxin might be released with possible recurrence of toxicity . to shed light on this potential for recrudescent digitalis toxicity following release of bound digoxin , the author scrutinized the records of patients with impaired renal function who were treated with digibind . data are available from three sources : the original multicenter investigation of digibind in 150 patients with life-threatening digoxin or digitoxin toxicity , a postmarketing surveillance study of 745 patients treated with digibind , and all other reports in the literature or to burroughs wellcome co of physician experience with any antidigoxin fab . sixty percent of patients in the multicenter trial and 80 % of patients in the postmarketing surveillance trial had some degree of renal impairment . patients with poor renal function had no evidence of decreased effectiveness or safety either in terms of percent of patients responding , onset of effect or evidence of recrudescence . from all sources the authors identified 28 patients treated with fab who were functionally anephric . twenty-seven of these patients had no evidence of recrudescent toxicity . one patient was reported to have complete resolution of digoxin-induced third-degree atrioventricular ( av ) block , but av block recurred 10 days after fab treatment and persisted for 10 days thereafter . although this case offers the only clinical evidence suggesting recrudescence can occur , there were no likely alternative explanations for the clinical findings . 
which cardiac disturbances should be treated with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) antibody ? digoxin excess can produce characteristic bradyarrhythmias , tachyarrhythmias , and hyperkalemia . the bradyarrhythmias , which consist of disturbances in conduction and block at the level of the atrioventricular and sinus nodes , are mediated by a direct and vagotonic effect . the vagotonic effect of excess digoxin may also result in a marked slowing of the sinus rate in the setting of severe toxicity . digoxin increases automatic and triggered electrical activity in atrial muscle , his-purkinje system , and ventricular muscle , which predisposes to tachycardias . many of the tachyarrhythmias are relatively specific for the toxic effects of digoxin . atrial tachycardias with variable atrioventricular block , accelerated junctional rhythms ( especially in the setting of atrial fibrillation ) , and fascicular tachycardias are characteristic digoxin toxic rhythms . digoxin-specific antibody fragments should be considered the treatment of choice for any digoxin toxic arrhythmia associated with hemodynamic compromise or the threat of hemodynamic compromise . hyperkalemia , when due to acute severe digoxin toxicity , is also an appropriate indication for digoxin-specific fab fragment therapy . when assessing the risk : benefit ratio for using digoxin-specific fab fragment therapy , one needs to determine , in addition to the electrocardiographic manifestations and patient 's hemodynamic status ( 1 ) the severity of toxicity , as indexed by the amount ingested and/or the serum digoxin concentration ; ( 2 ) the expected time course for reversal of toxicity , which is usually determined by the status of renal function ; ( 3 ) the need for digoxin to provide ventricular rate control or improved ventricular contractility and therapeutic alternatives to digoxin ; ( 4 ) the presence of a strong allergy history ; ( 5 ) the presence of such factors as increased age and severity of heart disease that may predispose to digoxin toxicity . 
anaesthetic management of a 2-month-old infant for laser resection of vocal cord granuloma . a 2-month-old infant underwent excision of granulomata of vocal cords with a carbon dioxide laser . high frequency jet ventilation was given through a surgical metal suction tube during the operation . the anaesthetic technique for the infant and the problems of the use of carbon dioxide laser in laryngeal surgery are discussed . 
muscle biopsy for diagnosis of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility in two patients with severe exercise-induced myolysis . muscle biopsy and in vitro contracture tests for diagnosis of susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) were performed in two patients who had developed fever and severe myolysis during exercise . mh susceptibility was confirmed in one patient , but in the other , exercise-induced heat stroke proved to be the correct diagnosis . clinical presentation and epidemiology of exercise-induced mh and its relation to the heat stroke syndrome are discussed . 
plasma concentrations of bupivacaine and two of its metabolites during continuous interscalene brachial plexus block . an interscalene brachial plexus block was performed via a catheter with 20-28 ml of 0.75 % bupivacaine plus adrenaline for surgery of the shoulder region in 12 patients . constant infusion of 0.25 % bupivacaine 0.25 mg kg-1 h-1 was continued for 24 h. during surgery light general anaesthesia , without analgesics , was maintained . plasma concentrations of total and unbound ( free fraction ) bupivacaine , desbutylbupivacaine ( dbb ) , 4-hydroxybupivacaine ( 4-ohb ) and alpha 1-acid glycoprotein ( aag ) were measured at predetermined intervals during the continuous block . the greatest mean plasma concentrations of bupivacaine were measured at 30 min ( 1.63 ( sd 0.55 ) micrograms ml-1 ) and 60 min ( 1.38 ( 0.48 ) micrograms ml-1 ) . there was a small but statistically significant increase in the plasma concentration of bupivacaine between 12 and 24 h of infusion . the mean unbound concentration of bupivacaine in plasma decreased from 0.044 ( 0.015 ) microgram ml-1 ( 3.6 ( 1.1 ) % of total bupivacaine concentration ) at 3 h to 0.023 ( 0.011 ) micrograms ml-1 ( 2.1 ( 1.0 ) % ) at 24 h. the aag concentration in plasma increased by 38 % in 24 h. the metabolites dbb and 4-ohb were detectable in plasma from 30 min , with a gradual increase during infusion . at 24 h the mean concentrations of dbb and 4-ohb were 0.33 ( 0.22 ) micrograms ml-1 and 0.13 ( 0.04 ) micrograms ml-1 , respectively . there were no toxic reactions during the blocks . 
pharmacokinetics and clinical experience of 20-h infusions of methohexitone in intensive care patients with postoperative pyrexia . we have studied the pharmacokinetics of 20-h infusions of methohexitone in young patients with postoperative fever undergoing artificial ventilation of the lungs . the infusion rate was adjusted so that patients were unresponsive to vocal stimulation but reacted to tracheal suction . the mean steady state concentration of methohexitone required was 2.6 mg litre-1 ( unbound 0.53 mg litre-1 ) . the mean ( sd ) total clearance of methohexitone was 16.3 ( 4.2 ) ml min-1 kg-1 , which is greater than that for volunteers or normal surgical patients . the unbound clearance correlated positively with body temperature during the infusion ( r = 0.796 , p = 0.017 ) . the terminal half-life of methohexitone was 6.3 ( 3.8 ) h and that of the 4 ' - hydroxy metabolite 5.8 ( 2.1 ) h. there were no marked haemodynamic effects of the infusion , and no excessive sedation after the infusion . however , the clearance of methohexitone was high and variable , possibly as a direct effect of postoperative fever . consequently , the need for individual titration of the rate of infusion is emphasized . 
antithrombotic efficacy of continuous extradural analgesia after knee replacement . we have studied the effect of extradural analgesia on postoperative venous thrombosis in patients undergoing knee arthroplasty . forty-eight patients were allocated randomly to receive either general anaesthesia or extradural analgesia with local anaesthetics for 3 days . all patients wore compressive elastic stockings and no anticoagulant drugs were administered . bilateral venography was performed 10 days after surgery . continuous extradural analgesia did not impede mobilization of the patients . one case of nonfatal pulmonary embolism occurred in a patient who received general anaesthesia . the use of continuous extradural analgesia resulted in a significant difference in the total incidence of deep vein thrombosis ( 18 % compared with 59 % after general anaesthesia ( p = 0.02 ] . the incidence of calf vein thrombosis was 12 % compared with 45 % after general anaesthesia ( p = 0.05 ) . 
melanoma in pregnancy . the clinical course of malignant melanoma in pregnancy has been a subject of controversy , but current evidence indicates that it is similar to the clinical course in non-pregnant patients . early detection and biopsy of localized disease is crucial because early treatment provides an excellent prognosis . surgical excision is the primary therapy for this disease . as the primary care provider for many women in the reproductive age group , obstetrician-gynecologists have an opportunity to detect these lesions at their earliest stages when they are amenable to cure . overall , maternal metastases to the fetus and placenta are very rare events and do not warrant elective termination based on the maternal diagnosis . however , a thorough examination of the infant and placenta should be done in all cases of melanoma complicating pregnancy . after treatment , long-term follow-up is recommended . since most recurrences develop within 3 years after the diagnosis , it remains prudent to recommend that these patients avoid a subsequent pregnancy during this interval . 
surgery or radiation for early cervical cancer . in summary , neither radiation nor surgery is clearly superior . the benefits of surgery include : 1 ) emotional satisfaction that the tumor has been removed , 2 ) accuracy of surgical staging , 3 ) preservation of the ovaries , 4 ) no secondary uterine cancer ( a very uncommon problem ) , and 5 ) complications that are more readily correctable . radiation offers the major advantages of being useful in most patients regardless of age or medical condition and is the choice for large cancers . because stage ib cervical cancer is a very diverse pathological entity with a number of potential prognostic factors ( including cell type , depth of invasion , tumor volume , lymphatic space involvement , and occult lymph node metastases ) , and because patients present with a number of other conditions ( including excess weight , advanced age , prior pelvic surgery or infection , and severe medical illness ) , we are fortunate to have two good methods for treating cervical cancer . prospective randomized studies will be necessary in the future to better define specific advantages in the various clinical settings . but , in general , the following have proven most expedient : 1 ) class i hysterectomy , for microinvasive cancer of 3 mm invasion or less without lymphatic space involvement , 2 ) modified , extended hysterectomy ( class ii ) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for lesions of 3 mm and lymph vascular space involvement or when the lesion seems to just exceed 3 mm and for very early adenocarcinoma , 3 ) an extended hysterectomy ( class iii ) and pelvic lymphadenectomy for larger ia2 , ib , and iia lesions that are less than 4 cm , particularly for the pregnant or younger patient , and when ovarian conservation is desired , 4 ) radiation therapy is used for lesions over 4 cm and for women with severe medical illness making extended hysterectomy too hazardous , 5 ) combination therapy and chemotherapy are now reserved for study in poor prognosis patients with very large lesions ( greater than 6 cm ) , occult metastases , and unfavorable histologic criteria ( table 2 ) . 
traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistula in a child . a case report . a seven-year-old girl sustained a gunshot wound to the chest and spine . evaluation of a persistent pleural effusion demonstrated a subarachnoid-pleural fistula . surgical closure of the dural defect resulted in resolution of the fistula . traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistulae are rare . the diagnosis is reached by an awareness of fistula formation from penetrating or blunt trauma to the chest . 
local hypothermia to prolong safe tourniquet time . local hypothermia was studied as a method to safely prolong tourniquet time for reconstructive procedures of the upper extremity . an ice blanket constructed of flannel cloth and cold gel packs was applied to the limb for 45 minutes preoperatively . seventy-eight patients were evaluated for complications resulting from hypothermia and prolonged tourniquet application . the duration of continuous tourniquet ischemia averaged two hours and 25 minutes . intraoperative muscle temperature recordings indicated that the iced limbs were an average of 12.9 degrees cooler than noniced limbs before tourniquet inflation . electron microscopic studies of biopsied muscle showed no evidence of ischemic changes . there were no postoperative complications associated with prolonged tourniquet inflation or the hypothermia blanket technique . local hypothermia appears to be a safe and effective method of decreasing the adverse effects of tourniquet ischemia and allowing continuous tourniquet inflation time to extend safely beyond the customary two-hour limit . 
inflammatory response in retrieved noncemented porous-coated implants . one hundred forty-six noncemented porous-coated hip and knee implants retrieved from 97 patients were evaluated histologically for the type , amount , and anatomic distribution of tissue ingrowth . the degree of inflammatory cell infiltrate present was also evaluated and the predominant cell type was identified . an inflammatory infiltrate was present in the components of 21 of 97 patients ( 22 % ) . in 16 of the 21 cases the infiltrate was lymphocytes and histiocytes with a minor population of plasma cells . one of the remaining five cases had a predominately plasma cell reaction , and the other four had significant populations of plasma cells . vascular proliferation was observed in nine of the 21 cases . bone ingrowth was present in ten of the 21 cases . a 38 % incidence of removal for persistent pain was present in cases with an inflammatory infiltrate . seventeen of 87 patients ( 20 % ) with cobalt-chromium devices and four of ten patients ( 40 % ) with titanium devices were identified as having an inflammatory infiltrate . the origin of the inflammatory infiltrate is unclear . all patients with inflammatory infiltrates had noninfected implants , which were not loose roentgenographically or clinically at the time of removal . hypersensitivity and allergic responses to metal ions may produce such infiltrates . it is impossible , however , in the present study to definitively determine the etiology of the infiltrates . 
sciatic nerve monitoring during revision total hip arthroplasty . this study presents a simple method of intraoperative sciatic nerve monitoring during revision total hip arthroplasty ( tha ) , utilizing intraoperative , somatosensory evoked potentials . using this method , the sciatic nerve was protected when surgical correction of shortened limb length was necessary during revision tha . twenty-three revision thas were performed using intraoperative sciatic nerve monitoring . no postoperative peripheral nerve complications occurred , with an average increase of 18 mm in leg length , ranging from 6 mm to 43 mm . 
total knee arthroplasty in patients after patellectomy . twenty-six total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) were evaluated in 22 patients who had had a patellectomy . fourteen knees ( 12 patients ) had a primary tka , and 12 patients had a revision tka . two patients in the revision group , whose prostheses failed , were from the primary tka group . the mean follow-up time was 8.5 years in the primary tka group and 7.6 years in the revision tka group . a group of 14 control knees with patellae was randomly generated but matched for prosthesis , diagnosis , surgeon , age , and time of surgery . this group was similarly evaluated with an average follow-up time of 6.9 years . the primary tka group had seven knees that were rated as good or excellent , two as fair , and three as poor . the control group had a significantly higher average rating than the primary tka group . in this group , there were 12 good or excellent knees , three fair , and none poor . postoperative pain , flexion contracture , extension lag , and range of motion all contributed significant information to the final score , whereas other variables ( walking , function , strength , and instability ) did not contribute any additional information . although higher overall scores may have been expected if the patients had patellae , the results during the follow-up examination were satisfactory and justified tka in these patients . in general , however , patients without patellae may be at a higher risk for failure of the prosthesis , as seen in five patients having primary tka and another ten patients with failed tka requiring revision . 
the management of chronic osteomyelitis . chronic osteomyelitis of childhood is heterogeneous but it can be broadly classified into nonspecific or specific groups . children with chronic osteomyelitis because of mycobacteria or mycoses are included within the specific group . the nonspecific group is the larger . it includes chronic osteomyelitis as a sequel to late acute osteomyelitis as well as chronic unifocal and chronic multifocal osteomyelitis . whereas staphylococcus aureus and other pyogenic organisms are commonly cultured from chronic lesions following late acute osteomyelitis , they are less frequently cultured from those with chronic unifocal osteomyelitis and rarely cultured from those with chronic multifocal osteomyelitis . the methods of treatment and the results also differ between these subgroups of nonspecific osteomyelitis . lesions following late acute osteomyelitis are usually cured following surgery and antibiotics . chronic unifocal osteomyelitis is usually cured with antibiotics only or with surgery and antibiotics . in contrast , surgery and antibiotics are largely ineffective in children with chronic multifocal osteomyelitis , but the disease appears to be self-limiting . 
bronchial asthma . asthma is one of the most common respiratory problems in modern industrialized countries , affecting over 5 % of the population . it affects all age groups from infants to senior citizens , and mortality rates from asthma appear to be increasing during the past few years in the united states as well as in other industrialized countries . asthma tends to occur in families , associated with other allergic disease , and may be induced by a wide variety of environmental antigens , most commonly inhaled allergens such as pollen and dust . bronchial challenge with a specific allergen results in an early bronchospastic response with a relatively brief duration , and in a significant number of patients there is a late response with onset after 3 to 4 hours , lasting hours to days . this late response is associated with a bronchial hypersensitivity reaction , which is demonstrable by nonspecific challenge testing in the laboratory . during the period of bronchial hyperresponsiveness patients are prone to develop attacks following exposure to a wide variety of " triggers , " including cold air , fumes , or cigarette smoke . the current approach to management of patients with asthma emphasizes prevention , with avoidance of specific allergens when possible , and chronic use of anti-inflammatory agents including corticosteroids and cromolyn sodium . the goal is to decrease the bronchial hyperresponsiveness . management of the acute asthma attack consists of bronchodilator therapy , primarily with inhaled beta-adrenergic agonists , and administration of oral or systemic corticosteroids if the attack is not rapidly relieved . additional therapeutic agents including theophylline and anticholinergics may be useful in some situations . response to therapy during the first couple of hours in the emergency room is the most important predictor of the course of the acute attack , and patients who have not responded significantly after 2 hours of maximum therapy are candidates for hospital admission or prolonged emergency room observation . the goal of acute therapy is to wean the patient from intravenous drugs and place him or her on rapidly tapering doses of oral prednisone while initiating a vigorous program of preventive therapy . follow-up observation , both in the office and in the patient 's home , is vital and involves extensive patient education and objective testing of peak airflow . in general , the course of asthma is relatively benign compared with other obstructive airway diseases ; however , significant mortality exists , especially in older patients and those with late-onset asthma . 
the importance of the ghq in general practice . the relationship between general health questionnaire ( ghq ) score and complaints presented at the general practitioners office was examined , and showed that the correlation between them is not as high as might be expected . many patients who present psychosocial problems to their gp appear to have a low ghq score ; many patients with a high ghq score exclusively present somatic complaints , which are also assessed by the gp as being purely somatic . implications of the results are discussed . 
morphological features of blood access stenosis and results of noninvasive angioplasty . we investigated a connection between the results of noninvasive angioplasty for the blood access stenosis and its morphological features in 37 dialysis cases . in 3 cases presenting stenosis in the original artery , the area could not be dilated by noninvasive techniques . in 4 cases with stenosis in the arterialized vein downstream of the needle insertion points for extracorporeal circulation , 3 showed long-term dilatation by the procedures . in 30 cases having stenosis upstream of the points , 16 showed long-term dilatation . in the unsuccessful cases , the angle formed between the axes of the stenosed portion and the normal vessel was over 39 degrees , and the distance between the anastomosis and the stenosed portion was less than 11 mm . 
a comparison of the efficacy and safety of pergolide and bromocriptine in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia . pergolide is a synthetic ergoline derivative with highly potent long-acting prl-lowering activity , allowing therapy of hyperprolactinemia with a once daily administration of the drug . the results of two open-label , randomized controlled multicenter clinical trials are reported . pergolide ( taken once a day ) , was compared with bromocriptine ( taken two to four times daily ) regarding efficacy and safety in the reduction of prl levels , the cessation of galactorrhea and amenorrhea , the improvement in sexual function , and tumor shrinkage in hyperprolactinemia without ( trial i ; 61 patients ) and with radiologically evident pituitary tumors ( trial ii ; 96 patients ) . both drugs were equally effective in lowering prl levels in both trials . a median optimal dose of 50 micrograms pergolide and 5 mg bromocriptine/day suppressed prl levels in the 61 patients of trial i by more than 80 % . during the 24-week investigational period galactorrhea disappeared in 96 % and 87 % of patients , whereas menstruation returned in 90 % and 96 % of patients , respectively . an equally high efficacy ( optimal median dose : 75-100 micrograms pergolide , 7.5-10 mg bromocriptine daily ) was observed in trial ii , although the resumption of menses was less frequent than in the patients of trial i ( 50 % and 58 % of patients , respectively ) . sexual dysfunction improved similarly on both drugs in about half the patients . in addition , tumor shrinkage occurred to a similar extent with both drugs . a high incidence of adverse events was noted especially at the initiation of therapy with both compounds : nausea , dizziness , vomiting , asthenia , headache , and decrease in blood pressure occurred at a similar incidence and extent during the use of pergolide and bromocriptine . patients in trial i treated with pergolide reported a slightly higher incidence of fever , vasodilatation , and flu syndrome . conclusions : in these 24-week studies comprising a total of 157 hyperprolactinemic patients , a once daily administration of pergolide was shown to be as safe and effective as the two to four times daily ingestion of bromocriptine . longer-acting dopamine agonists like pergolide that can be taken once daily , are likely to increase the ease to adherence to the therapeutic regimen . this might result in a higher compliance to medical treatment of hyperprolactinemia . 
reliability of stimulated and spontaneous growth hormone ( gh ) levels for identifying the child with low gh secretion . the reliability of stimulated and spontaneous gh levels for identifying the child with low gh secretion has been the subject of debate . we compared the ability of gh concentrations after pharmacological stimulation with levodopa and clonidine and of spontaneous peak and 12-h pooled gh concentrations during sleep on a single night to estimate the maximum spontaneous gh secretion from 2 nights in 55 children , aged 5-16 yr , with heights below the 3rd percentile and/or height velocities below the 25th percentile for age , who had two consecutive overnight gh secretory profiles . maximum stimulated gh concentrations correctly categorized 80 % of children who had maximum spontaneous gh concentrations above and below 4 micrograms/l using a double monoclonal immunoradiometric assay for gh ( tandem-r hgh , hybritech ) . the remaining 20 % of children had stimulated gh concentrations below but spontaneous gh concentrations above 4 micrograms/l . using this cut-off , the maximum gh concentrations from the first and second nights correctly categorized 98 % and 95 % of the children , respectively . night to night variation in gh secretion was low in children who had low spontaneous gh secretion ( maximum spontaneous peak and pool gh concentrations , less than 4 and less than or equal to 0.7 micrograms/l , respectively ) , and pooled gh concentrations from the 2 nights were concordant in 98 % of the cases . we conclude that it is not uncommon for stimulated gh concentrations to underestimate spontaneous gh secretion . even without acclimatization to the hospital setting , measurement of spontaneous gh secretion on a single night was more reliable for identifying the child with low endogenous gh secretion than was gh stimulation testing alone . 
hepatocyte expression of hbcag and serum hbeag in hepatitis b : comparison of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies during a trial of interferon . the distribution and quantitative expression of hbcag in relation to serum hbeag and liver histology before and after a trial of interferon in 50 patients with chronic type b hepatitis were evaluated using polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies . in general , both antisera showed a similar pattern in terms of the distribution of hbcag , with predominant localisation of hbcag in the cytoplasm in hbeag positive patients with chronic active hepatitis . semiquantitative analysis showed , however , that there was a higher degree of cytoplasmic expression of hbcag with polyclonal than with monoclonal anti-hbc . some of the hbeag positive patients with only a focal expression of hbcag in the cytoplasm by polyclonal anti-hbc showed no expression of hbcag with monoclonal anti-hbc . the expression of hbcag with polyclonal anti-hbc correlated better with the histological features of chronic active hepatitis or the persistence of serum hbeag on follow up , suggesting that it did not result from non-specific or false positive staining . all of the hbeag negative patients with minimal histological changes or inactive cirrhosis were hbcag negative with both antisera . in conclusion , though both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies produced a quite similar distribution of hbcag in patients with chronic type b hepatitis , polyclonal antibody seemed to be more sensitive in detecting hbcag in the cytoplasm than did monoclonal anti-hbc , and the expression of hbcag with polyclonal anti-hbc correlated better with the clinical and histological outcome . 
evaluation of the pre-s ( pre-s ( 1 ) ag/pre-s ( 2 ) ab ) system in hepatitis b virus infection . the diagnostic and prognostic value of pre-s ( 1 ) ag and pre-s ( 2 ) ab was investigated in 69 hbsag surface antigen positive patients -- 14 with acute hepatitis b , 30 with chronic liver disease ( six chronic persistent hepatitis , 14 chronic active hepatitis , 10 with cirrhosis ) and in 25 asymptomatic carriers . pre-s ( 1 ) ag was found in all patients with chronic hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection regardless of viral replication . in contrast , pre-s ( 2 ) ab was not detected in any patients . acute hepatitis was studied sequentially with periodic controls at 20 day intervals . pre-s ( 1 ) ag cleared before hbsag in six of 14 ( 43 % ) patients who progressed favourably , and the two antigens cleared simultaneously in eight of 14 ( 57 % ) cases . patients with early clearance of pre-s ( 1 ) ag progressed favourably , thus indicating the prognostic value of this test , which , however , is still of limited practical application given the small temporal difference between the moment of clearance of the two antigens . the first markers to clear , however , were hbeag and dna-hbv , which showed significant differences with respect to the clearance of hbsag . moreover , pre-s ( 2 ) ab appeared before hbsab in 57.1 % of our patients and was found in some patients before pre-s ( 1 ) ag and hbsag had cleared ( 42.8 % ) , thus allowing complete viral clearance and acute hbv infection to be predicted earlier . 
retrospective application of prognostic indices to pancreatitis discovered at necropsy . six prognostic indices , which were developed to assess inpatients with acute pancreatitis , were evaluated for possible retrospective application . when applied to a series of 14 cases in whom pancreatitis was first diagnosed at necropsy , the index devised by jacobs et al was found to be the most useful , because in nine of these cases eight or more of the variables required were available for assessment from the case records . in the other indices evaluated fewer than eight of the required variables were available for retrospective assessment in most cases . although undiagnosed pancreatitis is probably uncommon as a sole cause of death , the retrospective use of one or more of these indices may help assess the severity of the patient 's condition on admission to hospital . 
cytogenetic analysis of a granulocytic sarcoma in a patient without systemic leukaemia . granulocytic sarcoma is a rare complication of leukaemia . occasionally it presents before the development of systemic leukaemia when diagnosis may be difficult . a case of granulocytic sarcoma occurring in a patient with no overt evidence of leukaemia , but in whom cytogenetic analysis of the bone marrow showed a clonal t ( 12 ; 13 ) translocation , is reported . cytogenetic analysis of tissues in this disease may indicate evidence of systemic disease before overt morphological changes . 
quality of life in elderly , chronically ill outpatients . quality of life ( ql ) in elderly outpatients is poorly characterized . we interviewed 258 elderly outpatients from three health care settings to identify the attributes and events that affect self-assessment of ql . these outpatients rated their ql as acceptable , citing medical care , health , interpersonal relationships , financial status , and functional status as affecting their ql . overall ql ratings were not strongly associated with objective indicators such as demographic characteristics and use of health care services . subjective indicators , including patient perceptions of health , memory , and financial concerns , were correlated independently with global ql ( sigma r2 = .35 ) . we conclude that older , chronically ill patients generally consider their ql to be acceptable and affected by a variety of factors , including their perceptions of their emotional , socioeconomic , intellectual , and physical functioning . furthermore , ql is poorly associated with objective indicators . thus , in assessing the ql of elderly , chronically ill outpatients , physicians should elicit information regarding these perceptions . 
value of combined assessment of physical health and functional status in community-dwelling aged : a prospective study in florence , italy . a survey of the health and social conditions of a representative sample of 967 persons aged 60 years and older from the city of florence , italy , was undertaken in 1980 . in 1987 , a follow-up survey of this cohort was performed . there were 391 documented deaths , 408 survivors , and 168 individuals who could not be located . functional ability at baseline was assessed using a world health organization 14-item scale . indicators of physical health status included chronic disease status , number of drugs , physician visits , and days of hospitalization . after adjustment for age and sex , both functional ability and indicators of physical health status were found to be independent , statistically significant predictors of mortality . the results of this study further support the view that biomedical and functional assessment are both necessary for a comprehensive evaluation of the older population . 
the role of pain in the last year of life of older persons . a random sample of 200 decreased older community residents was studied with a focus on the role of pain in the last year of life . interviews with a surviving close person elicited retrospective reports . pain increased over the final year ; one month before death 66 % felt pain frequently or all of the time , substantially higher than a matched comparison group of living persons ( 24 % ) . for both groups across the year , pain was associated with most measures of behavioral competence , perceived quality of life , and psychological well-being . hierarchical multiple regressions indicated that background and health variables explained 28 % to 32 % of the variance of pain over the year . controlling for background variables and health , pain contributed significantly to lowered happiness and to depression , but had no independent impact on hope and interest in the world . after controlling for physical health , the older old were judged to have less pain than the younger old . 
decision criteria for pure-tone detection used by two age groups of normal-hearing and hearing-impaired listeners . response criteria from a yes-no task and detection thresholds from two test procedures were measured for four groups of adults : younger normal-hearing , older normal-hearing , younger hearing-impaired , and older hearing-impaired . the two test procedures were an audiological procedure ( which does not control for response bias ) and a 21fc adaptive procedure ( which does control for bias ) . the signal was a 500 or 4000 hz tone presented in quiet . all four groups showed an equally conservative response bias in the yes-no task . in addition , neither age nor hearing loss affected the difference ( 6.5 db ) between the two threshold measures . 
the effects of rate , sequencing , and memory on auditory processing in the elderly . auditory sequencing , rate , and memory were evaluated in three age groups with a series of subtests that require the identification of tones ( repetition test ; tallal & piercy , 1973 ) . the older elderly group ( m age = 80 ) , but not the younger elderly group ( m age = 70 ) , performed significantly ( p less than .05 ) poorer than the young adult group ( m age = 25 ) when auditory memory of 4 and 5 tones was required and when the interstimulus interval was decreased . performance was not related to hearing sensitivity , thus suggesting that changes in the auditory mechanism that occur with age may encompass more than a loss of hearing sensitivity . moreover , performance on the repetition test did correlate with memory for digits , which indicates a relationship between auditory processing and higher cortical functions . 
nonorganizational religious participation among elderly black adults . this study investigated rates of participation in nonorganizational religious activities of elderly black adults . four indicators of participation were examined : reading religious materials , watching or listening to religious programs , prayer , and requests for prayer . demographic , religious denomination , and health disability factors influenced participation in these behaviors . the findings were discussed for their implications for the development of a multidimensional conceptualization of religiosity . 
health perceptions and survival : do global evaluations of health status really predict mortality ? self-evaluations of health status have been shown to predict mortality , above and beyond the contribution to prediction made by indices based on the presence of health problems , physical disability , and biological or life-style risk factors . several possible reasons for this association are discussed : ( a ) methodological shortcomings of previous studies render the association spurious ; ( b ) other psychosocial influences on mortality are involved and explain the association ; and ( c ) self-evaluations of health status have a direct and independent effect of their own . four-year follow-up mortality data from the yale health and aging project ( n = 2812 ) are used to explore these possibilities . the analysis controls for the contribution of numerous indicators of health problems , disability and risk factors , and also makes adjustments of standard errors for the complex sample design . the findings favor the third possibility , an independent effect , to the extent that the particular set of psychosocial factors examined did not explain the basic association , and to the extent that the control variables were an adequately comprehensive set . 
population aging patterns : the expansion of mortality . we used the hypothesis of mortality compression as a framework to examine patterns of mortality from 1962 to 1984 . data from national vital statistics records were used for analysis of the changing age at death for percentiles of the population . data from the social security administration and the u.s. census bureau were used to calculate the force of mortality . the mean age at death for all percentiles , including the oldest groups , has risen during the interval . examination of the coefficient of variation for the mean age at death suggests that there is a relative increase in the variability of age at death among the oldest old . the available data do not fit a hypothetical sequence of normal density distributions with an increasing mean and declining standard deviation . the force of mortality in those over 85 years appears to be decreasing in a pattern similar to that for those under 85 years . current mortality patterns suggest an " expansion , " rather than compression , of mortality at the oldest ages . further refinement of these observations , with improved data on mortality among the oldest old , will be helpful in delineating mortality patterns . 
levels of disability among u.s. adults with arthritis . this article studies the excess levels of disability experienced by persons with arthritis , compared to persons without the disease . the data set is the supplement on aging ( 1984 national health interview survey ) ; it has information for a national probability sample of community-dwelling persons ages 55 + ( n = 16,148 ) . ( 1 ) arthritis people have more difficulty in physical functions , personal care , and household care than do nonarthritis persons . the excess disability is greatest for physical functions ( walking , reaching , stooping , etc. ) . disabled arthritis people have especially high degrees of difficulty in physical activities that require endurance and strength . ( 2 ) various models are tested for walking , grasping , shopping , and light housework to show how comorbidity propels disability for arthritis people and to show arthritis ' own contribution to disability in the presence of other chronic conditions . difficulties escalate for arthritis people when they have other concurrent conditions . these models affirm that arthritis has a pronounced effect on physical dysfunctions , but these are not readily translated into personal and household care problems . apparently , arthritis people often make successful accommodations so their roles and daily activities are not seriously affected by the disease . 
stressful events and life satisfaction among elderly men and women . the purpose of this study was to examine the interrelationships among stressful events , domain-specific assessments of life satisfaction , and global evaluations of life satisfaction . this research was guided by two competing theoretical formulations . according to bottom-up theory , older adults first assess feelings of satisfaction within specific life domains that are based in part on the experiences ( i.e. , stressors ) they encounter in these areas . the domain-specific views are subsequently synthesized to form an overall sense of satisfaction with life as a whole . in contrast , the top-down theory suggests that a person 's ongoing sense of satisfaction with life as a whole predisposes him or her to assess satisfaction with specific domains in ways that are congruent with his or her initial sense of global life satisfaction . analysis of data provided by older participants in a nationwide survey tends to support the bottom-up perspective . 
skeletal muscle depressed calcium and phosphofructokinase in chronic heart failure are upregulated by captopril -- a double-blind , placebo-controlled study . the effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril , after treatment for 5-6 weeks with 25 mg t.i.d. , were studied in 12 patients with stable moderate heart failure . five patients received placebo treatment , and the two groups were comparable at baseline . angiotensin ii levels decreased in response to captopril therapy . skeletal muscle potassium , magnesium and chloride levels did not differ from reference values . calcium was subnormal ( p less than 0.0001 ) , but increased to the reference range during captopril treatment . phosphofructokinase , a rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme , was in the lower reference range and increased ( p less than 0.04 ) in response to captopril therapy . in conclusion , stable moderate heart failure is associated with low levels of skeletal muscle calcium and phosphofructokinase activity , these metabolic changes tending to return to normal levels with captopril treatment . 
patterns of neuropsychological impairment after severe blunt head injury . a consecutive series of 100 subjects with severe blunt head injuries was followed up 6 years after trauma . neuropsychological test performances of 82 subjects and of a noninjured control group were analyzed by two principal components analyses ( pcas ) . each pca extracted 15 factors relating to a range of cognitive impairments , as well as neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality changes . measures identified by the pcas were applied to 85 head-injured subjects in the series to examine the incidence of impairment in four neuropsychological areas : disorders of learning and memory , neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality change , slowness in rate of information processing , and a range of basic neuropsychological skills . overall , impairments occurred in 70 % of the series . disorders of learning and memory were the most common type of deficit ( 56.5 % ) , with disturbances in basic neuropsychological skills the least frequent ( 16.5 % ) . variability among subjects with respect to the types and combinations of neuropsychological impairments was a characteristic feature of this clinical group , but the largest proportion ( one-third ) demonstrated isolated impairments . the implications of the incidence and selectivity of neuropsychological impairments are discussed . 
neuropsychological performance in patients with mild multiple sclerosis . although changes in cognitive function in patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) have been reported , these changes have been traditionally associated with the later stages of the disease . in the current study , a comprehensive neuropsychological battery was administered to ms patients ( n = 86 ) in whom the disease progression was relatively mild and in remission and a demographically well-matched control group ( n = 46 ) . besides the expected differences in tests of motor function , the two groups also differed on a number of cognitive tests with no motor demands . the two cognitive functions that appear impaired were learning and memory . given that similar deficits have been found in ms patients with more severe symptoms , it is argued that changes in cognitive function can occur in the mild stages of the disease . 
spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage : imaging and management . we report on 10 patients with spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage associated with underlying disease , including renal cell carcinoma ( 5 ) , angiomyolipoma ( 2 ) , malignant melanoma ( 1 ) , periarteritis nodosa ( 1 ) and severe portal hypertension ( 1 ) . the etiology could not be identified with computerized tomography ( ct ) in 5 cases ( 50 % ) , including 2 renal cell carcinomas , 1 angiomyolipoma , 1 periarteritis nodosa and 1 portal hypertension . arteriography demonstrated underlying lesions in 4 of these 5 cases ( 80 % ) including the case of vasculitis . ct combined with magnetic resonance imaging is accurate for the diagnosis of spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage but the underlying pathological condition is often undetectable in the acute phase due to the perinephric blood . ct should be the first study performed if this diagnosis is suspected . arteriography is recommended if a renal mass is not detected . if a mass is not identified with these 2 imaging studies and the patient is clinically stable , followup thin slice ct should be performed . 
percutaneous nephrolithotomy and the solitary kidney . we reviewed 53 patients with stones in a solitary kidney who had undergone percutaneous nephrolithotomy . previous surgery on that kidney had been performed in 35.8 % , and 50.9 % had other medical conditions including 26.4 % who had impaired renal function . staghorn or partial staghorn calculi were present in 52.9 % and an additional 18.8 % had multiple stones . postoperative complications in 18.8 % of the patients included sepsis , the need for transfusion and 1 death of bronchopneumonia . percutaneous nephrolithotomy alone resulted in a 77.3 % rate free of stone or fragments of 2 mm , or less . this rate increased to 86.8 % with the addition of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy , ureteroscopy or open surgery ( 2 patients ) . only 1 patient suffered long-term deterioration in renal function . percutaneous nephrolithotomy is a safe procedure in the solitary kidney . it should be considered in those patients with complex stone burdens and impaired renal function when reduction in stone bulk and improved renal function may allow other treatment modalities to be used . 
spermatic cord for onlay coverage of urethral defect . segmental urethral necrosis may accompany scrotoperineal gangrene , and primary closure of the urethral defect may unacceptably reduce urethral dimensions . this dilemma has been managed successfully in 5 patients by application of the intact spermatic cord to the urethral defect and approximation to its margins . a representative case is described . 
gross and microscopic changes in the viscera induced by photodynamic therapy applied to the lower abdomen of intact rats . photodynamic therapy ( pdt ) is a promising approach to the treatment of cancer . preferential retention of the photosensitizer by malignant tissue has been considered a hallmark of this treatment modality . however , photosensitivity can be observed in normal , non-neoplastic tissues , and the present study investigated the effects of pdt treatment on the abdomen of intact rats . a circular region ( 1 cm diameter ) on the shaved abdomen of fischer rats , pretreated 24 h prior with photofrin ii , was irradiated for 30 min at 632 nm . control animals received either photoradiation or photofrin ii administration . subsequent lesions were observed in the irradiated skin , its associated abdominal wall , and the underlying gut in rats receiving photofrin ii and laser irradiation . all tissues were not equally sensitive to pdt treatment . gut lesions were consistently more severe than were skin and abdominal wall injuries . by 24 hr after treatment , the gut manifested a transmural hemorrhagic necrosis , while the irradiated skin and abdominal wall were edematous , with an inflammatory infiltrate in the dermis and around occasional swollen myocytes . these results indicate that superficial lesions induced by pdt may not be reliable indicators of the extent of deeper pdt tissue damage . further , it may be possible to take advantage of this discrepancy in tissue sensitivity and treat deep tissues through less sensitive superficial tissues . 
endometrial ablation for the treatment of menorrhagia : a comparison of patients with normal , enlarged , and fibroid uteri . one hundred sixty-one patients underwent endometrial ablation with the nd : yag laser for the treatment of refractory menorrhagia . patients were divided into one of three groups : those with a normal-sized uterus ; those with an enlarged uterus ( greater than 10 cm ) ; and those with uterine fibroids , which had been documented clinically , ultrasonographically , or by a combination of hysteroscopy and laparoscopy or by one or the other . all patients were considered candidates for hysterectomy . both preoperatively and postoperatively , patients monitored their menstrual cycles and evaluated their flow according to predetermined categories of amenorrhea , light flow , normal flow , heavy flow , and severe flow . after treatment , 68 % of patients with normal-sized uterus and 91 % of patients with an enlarged uterus ( greater than 10 cm ) and 88 % of patients with uterine fibroids became amenorrheic or had light flow . none of the patients in this last group have had to undergo hysterectomy . this study indicates that the patient with an enlarged or fibroid uterus may not have contraindications for endometrial ablation . endometrial ablation may be effective in at least temporarily controlling bleeding in those patients with enlarged or myomatous uterus . 
resting metabolic rate and energy balance in amenorrheic and eumenorrheic runners . this study investigated metabolic and nutritional factors in association with athletic menstrual dysfunction ( amd ) . three groups of women were studied : amenorrheic runners ( amenorrheic ) , eumenorrheic runners ( eumenorrheic ) , and eumenorrheic sedentary controls ( sedentary ) . amenorrheic and eumenorrheic were similar in age , weight , percent body fat by hydrodensitometry , training pace and mileage , best 10 km race time , years running , and maximal oxygen consumption . when adjusted for body weight or for fat-free mass by analysis of covariance , rmr was significantly lower in amenorrheic than in eumenorrheic and sedentary . the daily caloric intakes of the groups did not differ significantly , but the amenorrheic scored significantly higher than the eumenorrheic and sedentary on a scale of aberrant eating patterns . amenorrheic high mileage runners seem to have a less adequate diet than eumenorrheic runners but appear to maintain energy balance and stable weight through a reduction in rmr . 
menstrual function and eating behavior in female recreational weight lifters and competitive body builders . a group of 103 female weight lifters ( wl ) and 92 control ( c ) women answered a survey concerning eating behavior and attitudes ( including the eating disorder inventory ) and menstrual function . the incidence of menstrual dysfunction , defined as oligomenorrhea plus amenorrhea , was significantly higher for the wl ( 30 % ) than for the c ( 13 % ) not on contraceptive pills . only 2 % of the women had amenorrhea . the incidence of dysfunction was highest for the subset of 12 wl who had competed in at least one body building competition ( comp ) ; 86 % of the comp not on birth control pills had menstrual dysfunction ( p less than 0.05 ) . more wl than c reported missing at least one menstrual period during the last year ( p = 0.06 ) . wl scored significantly higher than c on the drive for thinness subscale of the eating disorder inventory ( edi ) . fifteen percent of the wl and 9 % of the c achieved the criteria on this subscale for being weight preoccupied ( p greater than 0.05 ) . significantly more wl than c responded that they were terrified of becoming fat ( wl 56 % , c 38 % ) , were obsessed with food ( wl 47 % , c 30 % ) , used laxatives for weight control ( wl 14 % , c 1 % ) , and claimed that they had been anorexic in the past ( wl 17 % , c 5 % ) . examination of the answers of comp revealed several items that were significantly different from the remainder of the wl . for example , 42 % used to be anorexic , 67 % were terrified of becoming fat , and 50 % experienced uncontrollable urges to eat . 
skeletal muscle following tonic overload : functional and structural analysis . functional overloading of skeletal muscle induces a compensatory hypertrophy as an adaptive response to increased functional demand . overload of the extensor digitorum longus ( edl ) muscle ( 129 rej strain male mouse ) was induced by unilateral surgical removal of a synergistic muscle , tibialis anterior ( ta ) . response of the edl to overload for 7 , 21 , and 42 d was analyzed for changes in 1 ) muscle weight , 2 ) myofiber type distribution , 3 ) myofiber cross-sectional area by fiber type , 4 ) speed of contraction and relaxation of the muscle , 5 ) force of contraction , and 6 ) myofiber morphologic integrity . the weight of the edl significantly increased . the overload caused no impairment of muscle contractility and did not have a significant effect on isometric twitch contraction time to peak tension or the time to one-half relaxation of the twitch . overloaded muscles demonstrated a transient shift in fiber type profile with preferential hypertrophy of type iia fibers that occurred in the early phase of overload while type iib fibers were recruited by 42 d. no significant increase in myofiber number in overloaded muscles occurred . some morphologic changes in over-loaded muscles parallel those found in patients with neurogenic muscular disorders . however , overloaded muscle did not exhibit a significant occurrence of fiber branching from controls in the midbelly region of the muscle . 
oxygen uptake and heart rate responses during hypoxic exercise in children and adults . control of ventilation and heart rate during exercise appears to undergo maturation , while aerobic metabolism ( vo2 ) may not . since we had previously found that hypoxia during exercise produced different ventilatory responses in children ( c ) compared to adults ( a ) , we hypothesized that vo2 and heart rate kinetics during exercise would show similar maturational responses to hypoxia . to test this hypothesis , we examined the responses during progressive ( ramp ) and constant work rate tests in children and adults breathing either room air or hypoxic gas ( fio2 = 0.15 ) . when corrected for body weight , children and adults had similar values for lactic acidosis threshold ( lat ) ( c : 29.1 + / - 5.0 ml.min-1 . kg-1 ; a : 27.9 + / - 4.3 ) and vo2max ( c : 40.7 + / - 8.6 ml.min-1 . kg-1 ; a : 45.2 + / - 6.7 ) during normoxia . hypoxia significantly lowered lat ( c : 27.5 + / - 5.4 ml.min-1 . kg-1 ; a : 23.2 + / - 3.8 ; both p less than 0.05 ) and vo2max ( c : 37.7 + / - 8.3 ml.min-1 . kg-1 ; a : 40.1 + / - 5.3 ; both p less than 0.05 ) in both children and adults . metabolic efficiency ( delta vo2/delta work rate ) and the vo2-heart rate relationship ( delta vo2/delta hr/kg ) were similar in the two groups and unaffected by hypoxia . during the constant work rate exercise , vo2 kinetics ( time constant during phase 2 of the response ( pi 1 ) and the o2 deficit ) were similar between children and adults and were significantly slowed by hypoxia , consistent with current understanding of the control of oxidative metabolism . finally , heart rate was increased at rest and during exercise with hypoxia , while the time to reach 75 % of the end-exercise response was delayed significantly , in both groups . 
paralytic shellfish poisoning -- massachusetts and alaska , 1990 [ published erratum appears in mmwr morb mortal wkly rep 1991 apr 12 ; 40 ( 14 ) :242 ] paralytic shellfish poisoning ( psp ) is a foodborne illness caused by consumption of shellfish or broth from cooked shellfish that contain either concentrated saxitoxin , an alkaloid neurotoxin , or related compounds . this report summarizes outbreaks of psp that occurred in massachusetts and alaska in june 1990 . 
video display terminals and the risk of spontaneous abortion . background . the relation between spontaneous abortion and the use of video display terminals ( vdts ) is of great public health concern . previous investigators of this issue have reported inconsistent findings . methods . to determine whether electromagnetic fields emitted by vdts are associated with an increased risk of spontaneous abortion , a cohort of female telephone operators who used vdts at work was compared with a cohort of operators who did not use vdts . to obtain reliable estimates of exposure , we determined the number of hours of vdt use per week from company records and measured electromagnetic fields at vdt workstations and , for purposes of comparison , at workstations without vdts . operators who used vdts had higher abdominal exposure to very-low-frequency ( 15 khz ) electromagnetic fields ( workstations without vdts did not emit very-low-frequency energy ) . abdominal exposure to extremely-low-frequency fields ( 45 to 60 hz ) was similar for both operators who used vdts and those who did not . among 2430 women interviewed , there were 882 pregnancies that met our criteria for inclusion in the study . results . we found no excess risk of spontaneous abortion among women who used vdts during the first trimester of pregnancy ( odds ratio = 0.93 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.63 to 1.38 ) , and no dose-response relation was apparent when we examined the women 's hours of vdt use per week ( odds ratio for 1 to 25 hours per week = 1.04 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.61 to 1.79 ; odds ratio for greater than 25 hours per week = 1.00 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.61 to 1.64 ) . there continued to be no risk associated with the use of vdts when we accounted for multiple pregnancies , conducted separate analyses of early abortion , late abortion , and all fetal losses , or limited our analyses to spontaneous abortions for which a physician was consulted . conclusions . the use of vdts and exposure to the accompanying electromagnetic fields were not associated with an increased risk of spontaneous abortion in this study . 
effect of a short course of prednisone in the prevention of early relapse after the emergency room treatment of acute asthma . background . relapse after the treatment of acute asthma in the emergency room is common ( occurring in 25 to 30 percent of cases ) and is not accurately predicted by any available measurements . we studied the usefulness of prednisone in reducing this high rate of relapse . methods . one hundred twenty-two patients treated in the emergency room for acute exacerbations of asthma were assigned in a randomized , double-blind fashion to receive at discharge either prednisone for eight days ( the dose being tapered from 40 to 0 mg per day ) or matching placebo . ninety-three were subsequently discharged from the emergency room and participated in the trial . on days 1 , 7 , and 14 after discharge , the patients were assessed during home visits with spirometry and diary-card review ; they were contacted by telephone on day 21 . relapse was defined as an unscheduled medical visit occasioned by the patient 's perceived need for further asthma treatment . results . the overall risk of relapse was significantly lower in the prednisone group ( p less than 0.05 ) , with a significantly reduced rate of relapse during the first 10 days of follow-up ( 3 of 48 , as compared with 11 of 45 in the placebo group ; p less than 0.05 ) . thereafter ( days 11 through 21 ) , there was no further significant difference in relapse rates between treatment groups ( five in the prednisone group and six in the placebo group ) . during the first week after discharge , patients receiving prednisone reported significantly lower mean ( + / - sd ) daily symptom scores for shortness of breath ( 1.4 + / - 0.4 vs. 2.5 + / - 0.4 , p less than 0.01 ) and less frequent use of an inhaled bronchodilator ( 5.2 + / - 0.5 vs. 6.9 + / - 0.2 puffs per day , p less than 0.05 ) than patients receiving placebo . subsequently , symptom scores and bronchodilator use were similar in the two groups . conclusions . a short course of prednisone reduced early relapse rates after the treatment of acute asthma in the emergency room , an effect limited to the period of steroid administration . 
improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis by transesophageal echocardiography background . echocardiography is recognized as the method of choice for the noninvasive detection of valvular vegetations in patients with infective endocarditis , with transesophageal echocardiography being more accurate than transthoracic echocardiography . the diagnosis of associated abscesses by transthoracic echocardiography is difficult or even impossible in many cases , however , and it is not known whether transesophageal echocardiography is any better . methods . to determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis , we studied prospectively by two-dimensional transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography 118 consecutive patients with infective endocarditis of 137 native or prosthetic valves that was documented during surgery or at autopsy . results . during surgery or at autopsy , 44 patients ( 37.3 percent ) had a total of 46 definite regions of abscess . abscesses were more frequent in aortic-valve endocarditis than in infections of other valves , and the infecting organism was more often staphylococcus ( 52.3 percent of cases ) in patients with abscesses than in those without abscesses ( 16.2 percent ) . the hospital mortality rate was 22.7 percent in patients with abscesses , as compared with 13.5 percent in patients without abscesses . whereas transthoracic echocardiography identified only 13 of the 46 areas of abscess , the transesophageal approach allowed the detection of 40 regions ( p less than 0.001 ) . sensitivity and specificity for the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis were 28.3 and 98.6 percent , respectively , for transthoracic echocardiography and 87.0 and 94.6 percent for transesophageal echocardiography ; positive and negative predictive values were 92.9 and 68.9 percent , respectively , for the transthoracic approach and 90.9 and 92.1 percent for the transesophageal approach . variation between observers was 3.4 percent for transthoracic and 4.2 percent for transesophageal echocardiography . conclusions . the data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a significant improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis . the technique facilitates the identification of patients with endocarditis who have an increased risk of death and permits earlier treatment . 
localization of stereotactic targets by microrecordings of thalamic somatosensory evoked potentials . to improve the localization of stereotactic targets , somatosensory evoked potentials ( seps ) were recorded from the thalamus and subthalamic area using a specially designed semimicroelectrode in 61 patients and a conventional " macroelectrode " in 17 patients . by means of the semimicroelectrode , median nerve stimulation evoked two distinct seps , consisting of a diphasic wave with a huge positivity restricted to the nucleus ventrocaudalis ( vc ) and a triphasic wave of lower amplitude with a major negativity in the ventral part of the nucleus ventrointermedius ( vim ) and nucleus ventrooralis posterior ( vop ) as well as the subthalamic lemniscal pathway . the vim-vc junction could thus be clearly delineated by an abrupt transition of seps from one type to the other with a precision of 1 mm . the parvicellular part of the vc ( vcpc ) , situated in its basal region , was distinguishable from the vc proper by a significant reduction of the positivity elicited by stimulation of the median nerve and by a rapid growth of a diphasic seps to stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve . in the other thalamic nuclei , stimulation of the median nerve elicited triphasic seps of a very small amplitude , suggesting a volume conduction current from the lemniscal pathway . with the macroelectrode , the positivity in the vc was sensitive to electrode manipulation and the thalamic nuclei could not be distinctly outlined . sep monitoring using the semimicroelectrode significantly improved the precision of target localization , which allowed minimizing of the volume of the therapeutic lesion without losing surgical effectiveness , while avoiding complications associated with increased penetration of the coagulating electrode . it is suggested that recording serial thalamic seps with the semimicroelectrode is a practical method to refine stereotactic targets in the thalamus . 
emergent aneurysm surgery without cerebral angiography for the comatose patient neurologically based clinical grading scales offer excellent prognostic information for the patient suffering diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) . these grading scales are less applicable to patients with life-threatening intraparenchymal hematomas after aneurysmal rupture . during the last 3 years , four patients in a comatose state with brain stem compression syndromes documented by computed tomographic scans have undergone emergent operation in our neurosurgical service . each patient was so critically ill that we believed it unwise to delay craniotomy for diagnostic angiography . the average delay from the onset of coma to skin incision was 3.02 hours ( range , 1.67-6 .5 hours ) , and the average delay from arrival in our unit until skin incision was 1.8 hours ( range , 0.75-2 .5 hours ) . the condition of two arousable patients deteriorated while they were in the emergency room , presumably from new bleeding . each patient underwent craniotomy for hematoma evacuation , definitive aneurysm clipping , and lobectomy for decompression . temporary clipping was employed in one patient , and intraoperative rupture occurred in two others . three patients survived but retain significant disability . emergent craniotomy with empiric exploration of appropriate subarachnoid cisterns after hematoma decompression may be life-saving in some cases . the delay imposed for diagnostic angiography may be avoided in attempts to save vital minutes of severe brain stem compression . 
isolated trigeminal sensory loss secondary to a distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm : case report . a previously healthy 25-year-old woman suddenly developed right-sided facial numbness and a headache . the neurological examination was within normal limits with the exception of meningismus and right-sided facial sensory loss . a computed tomographic scan and a magnetic resonance imaging study demonstrated an acute hematoma in the right cerebellopontine angle . a 4-vessel cerebral angiogram revealed no abnormalities . posterior fossa exploration disclosed a large , partially thrombosed , fusiform anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm , which indented the pons at the trigeminal root entry zone . the aneurysm was excised , and the patient made an excellent recovery . she was left with a persistent trigeminal sensory deficit . anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms are rare lesions that generally present with a cerebellopontine angle syndrome ; occasionally , facial sensory loss is also a feature . isolated trigeminal sensory findings , as illustrated in this case , are extremely unusual in posterior fossa vascular lesions . 
neuropathy caused by spontaneous intraneural hemorrhage : case report . a case of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow produced by spontaneous intraneural hemorrhage in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and thrombocytopenia is reported . intraneural hemorrhage in patients with bleeding disorders occurs infrequently . it consists of acute intrafascicular bleeding , presumably producing very high elevations of endoneurial fluid pressure . the clinical features and treatment of this condition are considered , the pertinent literature is reviewed , and the involved pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed . 
iatrogenic saphenous neuralgia : successful therapy with neuroma resection . we report the case of a patient with saphenous neuralgia secondary to iatrogenic trauma resulting from bypass surgery in the femoral-popliteal region . early symptoms of this condition were medial calf and ankle pain , with no findings of motor and reflex abnormalities . exploration of the thigh 2 years later revealed a neuroma of the nerve in the distal dissection site , medial to the knee . resection of the neuroma alleviated this condition . it is noted that saphenous neuropathy is seen as a spontaneous entrapment syndrome as well as a complication of orthopedic and vascular procedures performed on the medial area of the knee . saphenous neuralgia is often not recognized by neurosurgeons . if the condition is intractable , it does respond to surgical therapy . 
exposure of the intracavernous carotid artery in aneurysm surgery . the pterional intradural approach was used in five cases of large and giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms and in two cases of intracavernous aneurysms that arose from the anterior siphon knee in the cavernous sinus ( cs ) and extended into the carotid cistern . in four cases of large carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms removal of the anterior clinoid process and the roof of the optic canal gave easy access to the pericarotid ring . the anteromedial part of the pericarotid ring was dissected to expose the extradural portion of the internal carotid artery ( ica ) proximal to the neck and to make enough room between the wall of the cs and the extradural portion of the ica , thus allowing easy clipping of the neck . in one case of a giant carotid-ophthalmic aneurysm extending into the cs with an extradural origin of the ophthalmic artery and in two cases of an intracavernous aneurysm arising from the siphon knee , neck clipping was performed by opening the lateral wall and roof of the cs after removal of the optic strut . the opening of the lateral wall anterior to the 3rd nerve facilitated wide exposure of the anterior siphon knee . the horizontal portion of the intracavernous ica as well as the whole aspect of the aneurysm could be exposed as a result of the extended opening of the cavernous roof anterior to the posterior clinoid process . successful operative results were obtained in all seven patients . a visual field detect as an operative complication was noted in one patient . no disturbance of ocular movements was noted . 
monitoring of spinal cord stimulation evoked potentials during thoracoabdominal aneurysm surgery . repair of a thoracoabdominal aneurysm involves a significant risk of ischemic injury to the spinal cord . standard monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials , which relies upon peripheral nerve stimulation , becomes nonspecific and insensitive during this surgery when aortic cross-clamping produces lower extremity ischemia causing a peripheral conduction block . techniques for the insertion of percutaneous epidural electrodes , developed originally for pain management , have been adapted to this setting to permit direct stimulation of the spinal cord for intraoperative monitoring of evoked potentials . the clinical outcome in patients monitored by this technique has been consistent with evoked potential findings . 
candidal infection in oral lichen planus . the prevalence of candidal infection in lichen planus ( lp ) and its possible association with ulceration were independently examined in two archived series of 108 and 77 cases derived from two separate populations . to ensure that similar material was being compared , each case was histopathologically reassessed and confirmed as lp or reclassified as nonspecific lichenoid stomatitis ( nsls ) , lichenoid dysplasia ( ld ) , or other ( o ) . three further sections , cut at 25 microns intervals , were stained with periodic acid-schiff reagent for the identification of intraepithelial candidal pseudohyphae . as control specimens , 61 normal and 59 hyperkeratotic mucosal samples were similarly processed and examined . candidal infection was found in 17.4 % and 16.4 % of ulcerated and nonulcerated lp cases , respectively , and in 40.0 % and 16.7 % of ulcerated and nonulcerated nsls cases , respectively . one case of ld was infected . each control series contained one infected case . the results indicate that candidal infection occurs more readily in lp and nsls , with no apparent association with ulceration in lp . the comparatively marked increase in the infection prevalence of ulcerated nsls can not be statistically confirmed , and its significance remains uncertain . 
grinspan 's syndrome : a drug-induced phenomenon ? three cases of apparently drug-induced grinspan 's syndrome involving the triad of oral lichen planus , diabetes mellitus , and hypertension are reported . because drug therapy for diabetes mellitus and hypertension is capable of producing lichenoid reactions of the oral mucosa , the question arises as to whether grinspan 's syndrome is an iatrogenically induced syndrome . 
radiographic detection of recurrent carious lesions associated with composite restorations . the greatest potential problem associated with posterior composite restoration is secondary caries detection . it is essential that secondary caries is detected as early as possible to enhance the prognosis for a successful treatment outcome . this laboratory study evaluated the optimum level of radiopacity of composite materials for radiographic detection of secondary carious lesions associated with composite materials . results indicated that for the radiologic detection of secondary caries , it is sufficient for composite materials to have the same level of radiopacity as enamel . 
a comparison of three formulations of tac ( tetracaine , adrenalin , cocaine ) for anesthesia of minor lacerations in children . a randomized , prospective , double-blind study comparing three formulations of the topical anesthetic solution tac for laceration repair was undertaken in 250 children . the children 's wounds were anesthetized with either tac i ( original formulation -- 0.5 % tetracaine , 1:2000 adrenalin , 11.8 % cocaine ) , tac ii ( 1.0 % tetracaine , 1:4000 adrenalin , 7.0 % cocaine ) , or tac iii ( 1.0 % tetracaine , 1:4000 adrenalin , 4.0 % cocaine ) prior to repair . the solutions were compared with respect to efficacy , acceptability , wound complications , and side effects . we found comparable efficacy of the three formulations , with similar efficacy to 1 % lidocaine infiltration for facial and scalp wounds . anesthesia for extremity wounds was adequate in only 39.9 % of cases , regardless of tac strength . wound complications and side effects were within expected and acceptable limits . our findings support use of tac for face and scalp lacerations and a change to a less concentrated tac preparation , such as our " tac iii , " which is presumably safer for widespread use . 
pott 's puffy tumor : a complication of frontal sinusitis . in children sinusitis is a frequent complication of upper respiratory infections but an infrequently considered diagnosis . although most sinus infections are resolved without complications , when complications do occur they can be serious or life threatening . the most common ones occur in the orbit , but cns extension is not infrequent . osteomyelitis and resulting subperiosteal abscess of the frontal bone -- the so-called pott 's puffy tumor -- is a less common , and perhaps less frequently recognized , serious complication of frontal sinusitis . this paper describes two patients with subperiosteal abscess resulting from frontal sinusitis , one with cns and orbital extension . a brief literature review is presented , and presentation , diagnosis , and treatment are discussed . 
posttraumatic cortical blindness : are we missing the diagnosis in children ? a potential etiology of anxiety and agitation in the posthead trauma patient is cortical blindness . cortical blindness can be seen after both mild and severe head trauma . early recognition and understanding of this syndrome can lead to a decreased anxiety level , not only for the patient , but for the parents as well . two cases of posttraumatic cortical blindness are presented . the signs and symptoms of cortical blindness , its presentation , diagnosis , and outcome are discussed . the available literature is reviewed and discussed . 
delayed brachial artery occlusion owing to a dog bite of the upper extremity . we report a case of delayed presentation of vascular injury from a superficial dog bite of the upper extremity in a five-year-old male . this example of a significant arterial injury , in the setting of seemingly minor trauma , is the first known report of blunt arterial trauma owing to a dog bite in any age group . blunt arterial trauma in children is rare unless associated with fractures , dislocations , or massive crush injuries . additionally , persistent pulses following arterial occlusion are rare and can potentially lead to misdiagnosis of a serious arterial injury . a brief review of pediatric blunt vascular injuries is presented with implications for diagnosis and management of such cases . 
respiratory distress in a child in the office . we have reviewed respiratory distress from a pathophysiologic approach . two specific disease entities , epiglottitis and asthma , which commonly present with respiratory distress , are reviewed . the office management of respiratory distress encompasses early recognition of disease to prevent symptoms from progressing . referral should be considered in any difficult cases . 
iliac versus cranial bone for secondary grafting of residual alveolar clefts . secondary bone grafting of the maxilla in the mixed transitional dentition stage has become a well-accepted procedure in the surgical protocol for rehabilitation of patients with residual alveolar clefts . this retrospective study was undertaken to evaluate and compare the long-term results obtained with iliac or cranial cancellous bone graft material in the area of alveolar clefts and was based on the independent experience of two plastic surgeons from the same center using exclusively cranial or iliac cancellous bone , respectively . the criteria for surgery were similar . the surgical technique , with the exception of the bone-grafting material , also was similar , and all patients were treated by the same group of orthodontists . fifteen patients from each group , from a total of over 100 patients , were randomly selected and included in the study . all patients were followed up from 18 to 60 months . operative and perioperative parameters , donor-site morbidity , and long-term results were evaluated , compared , and analyzed . there were no significant differences between the two groups , and equally good results in terms of bone incorporation , tooth eruption , and appearance were obtained with both iliac and cranial bone grafts . we conclude from our study that successful bone grafting is primarily achieved by adherence to meticulous surgical technique , simultaneous closure of coexisting oronasal or palatal fistulae , use of cancellous bone particles only , and coverage of the grafts with well-vascularized flaps . the source of bone graft does not seem to primarily influence the success of the outcome . 
selective myectomy for postparetic facial synkinesis . synkinetic movements are secondary to facial palsy because they appear like a late sequela to spontaneously healing facial nerve injury . they are produced by an involuntary contraction of a muscle group simultaneous with contraction of other homologous muscle groups . the disorderly regeneration of severed axons is responsible for these movements . according to the lippschitz theory , the regenerating nerve fibers sprout into the wrong peripheral branches . between 1975 and 1986 , 71 patients with facial paralysis were evaluated . spontaneous recovery from the facial paralysis occurred in 28 of these patients ; 14 ( 50 percent ) developed synkinetic movements , and surgical treatment was sought by only 6 patients . in all patients , the lesion of the facial nerve was in the trunk , proximal to the principal ramification . the most frequent clinical finding was simultaneous activation between the orbicularis oculi and the elevators of the corner of the mouth ( 12 patients ) or the elevators of the upper lip ( 2 patients ) . in 8 patients , in whom the slight synkinesis was not noticed by the patients , surgical correction was not necessary , but in the other 6 patients with severe aesthetic disturbances , surgical treatment for " disconnection " of the wrong impulses was realized . i obtained this " disconnection " through resection of the involved perioral muscle groups instead of paralysis of the orbicularis oculi . follow-up of the 6 patients operated with the surgical treatment proposed herein for between 4 and 8 years has shown good aesthetic results without functional or aesthetic sequelae . 
intrapalatine resection ( ipr ) in the treatment of sleep apnea and snoring . a conservative surgical technique is proposed as an alternative to the classical uvulopalatopharyngoplasty ( uppp ) for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and snoring . the resection is strictly intrapalatine , and careful suturing in three planes seems to lead to complete disappearance of the often unbearable postoperative pain . the soft palate is shortened but nonetheless still resembles a normal soft palate . uvulopalatopharyngoplasty ( uppp ) was described by ikematsu in 1952 . this method has taken on a new lease of life in recent years . its efficacy is generally accepted , and its use , especially in cases of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome , is the only treatment of the palatal velum at present practiced . in addition to aesthetic problems , this method generally gives rise to complications in the shape of temporary -- but sometimes considerable -- pain , nasal regurgitation , and a nasal voice . in a small percentage of patients , some of these disorders may prove irreversible . in my series of eight patients , five were obese and presented with hypertension . three of them also were suffering from obstructive sleep apnea syndrome . the three others were ordinary snorers who caused considerable inconvenience to sleeping partners . 
experience with 50 free tram flap breast reconstructions . the data from the first 50 patients undergoing free tram flap breast reconstruction in two units were examined . average patient age was 42 years , and average weight was 62 kg . forty percent of patients were chronic smokers , and 26 percent had low abdominal scars . twelve percent exercised their abdominal muscles regularly . eighteen percent had undergone radical mastectomy , whereas 76 percent had undergone modified radical mastectomy and 6 percent had undergone subcutaneous mastectomy . postoperative radiotherapy had been given in 16 percent of patients , and 54 percent had received postoperative chemotherapy . the average time from mastectomy was 32 months , whereas six breasts were reconstructed immediately . average operating time was 5.6 hours , and average blood loss was 2.4 units . average hospital stay was 11.2 days . complications included three total flap losses ( 6 percent ) and two partial flap losses ( 4 percent ) . abdominal hernia occurred in two patients ( 4 percent ) . 
methyl prednisolone in double-lumen gel-saline submuscular mammary prostheses : a double-blind , prospective , controlled clinical trial . at the time of immediate breast reconstruction with submuscular implants , 76 consecutive patients ( 89 breasts ) were randomized into two groups . one received a gel-saline , double-lumen implant with 40 cc of saline added to the outer lumen , while the other received the same implant plus 40 cc of saline and 16 mg methyl prednisolone ( 40 mg % ) . patients were followed for a minimum of 3 years . the groups , which were matched for patient age and implant size , were evaluated at 3 , 12 , 24 , and 36 months for capsular contracture , steroid atrophy , and other complications . with completion of the double-blind study , the patients with submuscular gel-saline implants with only saline added had an overall capsular contracture rate of 38 percent at 3 months , 38 percent at 12 months , and 44 percent at 24 and 36 months . those with methyl prednisolone had an overall capsular contracture rate of 14 percent at 3 months , and this remained unchanged through the end of the study . the rates of all other complications were comparable . methyl prednisolone in a dose of 16 mg in 40 cc saline ( concentration 40 mg % ) , when used in the outer lumen of a double-lumen gel-saline implant in a submuscular pocket , is both safe and efficacious in reducing the risk of capsular contracture for a minimum of 3 years in patients undergoing immediate breast reconstruction with submuscular mammary implants . 
tissue expansion in the treatment of pressure ulcers . the authors report their experience using skin expanders in 11 patients with severe bed sores . the expanders , with different volumes , from 250 to 1000 cc , were generally overfilled using the cutaneous tonometer . in fact , with the information revealed by this apparatus on the skin in expansion , the authors were able to reduce the filling intervals without risking ulceration . in their experience , the results obtained were satisfactory : all patients treated achieved surgical recovery . the authors see a wide future for skin-expander use in pressure-ulcer treatment . they have a working hypothesis about using expanders to progressively advance sensitive skin in areas subject to ulceration . this hypothesis is based on the possibility of reexpanding the same flap several times , as has been seen in the treatment of other types of pathology . 
pathogenesis of ischemic necrosis in random-pattern skin flaps induced by long-term low-dose nicotine treatment in the rat . the objectives of the present experiments were to study the effects of long-term low-dose nicotine treatment on skin hemodynamics , viability , and microvascular morphology in 4 x 10 cm dorsally based acute random-pattern skin flaps in the rat . in addition , the reversibility of the nicotine-induced detrimental effects on skin-flap viability following cessation of nicotine treatment also was investigated . low-dose nicotine ( 0.6 mg/kg ) administered twice daily and subcutaneously for 24 weeks significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) decreased skin-flap capillary blood flow , distal perfusion , and length and area of skin viability compared with the saline-treated control ( n = 15 ) . however , these same parameters in rats ( n = 15 ) whose nicotine treatment had been withheld for 2 weeks prior to skin-flap surgery were not significantly different from the control , thus indicating that the detrimental effects of this long-term , low-dose nicotine treatment were reversible . the mean plasma level of nicotine in the nicotine-treated rats was 8.1 + / - 0.4 micrograms/dl and was within the range of plasma nicotine levels reported for human heavy cigarette smokers . light and electron microscopic studies did not show evidence of histologic damage to the cutaneous microvasculature in acute random-pattern skin flaps and samples of normal ( nonoperated ) skin in nicotine-treated rats . it is concluded that long-term plasma levels of nicotine similar to those of heavy cigarette smokers are detrimental to the capillary blood flow and viability of random-pattern skin flaps in the rat . these deleterious effects can be avoided if skin flaps are raised 2 weeks after cessation of nicotine treatment . this low-dose nicotine treatment does not cause histologic damage to the microvasculature . other pathogenic mechanisms of nicotine-induced skin flap ischemia are discussed . 
scalp necrosis in a neonate treated with cultured autologous keratinocytes . a neonate compromised by a stressful labor , low birth weight , anemia , seizures , and enterocolitis developed necrosis of a caput succedaneum of the calvaria . coverage with cultured autologous keratinocytes was successful and represents a treatment modality with minimal morbidity compared with conventional split-thickness skin grafts . 
lower respiratory tract infections . although lower respiratory tract infections are frequently diagnosed in a primary care setting , they are still associated with a significant morbidity and mortality , which warrants a careful approach to treatment . knowledge of the most common cause based on the age of the patient , location where the infection was acquired , and clinical presentation helps to direct empiric treatment . a few basic laboratory studies , especially a sputum gram stain , can allow for more specific treatment . identification of patients at increased risk for virulent organisms should make the primary care physician consider inpatient treatment along with an aggressive diagnostic workup and broad-spectrum antimicrobial treatment . prevention should always be considered . 
urinary tract infections . urinary tract infections are a common infection for the primary care physician to see in the office . epidemiology , pathogenesis , diagnosis , management , and prophylaxis are discussed . information regarding special patient populations , such as pregnant women and children , is also provided . 
reflux nephropathy and primary vesicoureteric reflux in adults we have studied the clinical features and course of adults with reflex nephropathy and/or primary vesicoureteric reflux , paying particular attention to the differences between males and females , and the presenting features that influence prognosis . in our series of 293 patients , females outnumbered males in the ratio 5:1 and most presented with urinary infection , whereas males most commonly presented with features of renal damage such as proteinuria , hypertension or renal failure . males more commonly had bilateral scarring and persistent reflux . one hundred and forty-seven patients were followed for two years or more ( range 2-19 years ) ; deterioration in renal function occurred in 55 ( 37 per cent ) . risk factors for a rise in plasma creatinine were , in descending order , the presence of proteinuria , an elevated plasma creatinine concentration , bilateral scarring , male sex and the presence of hypertension . stepwise multiple regression analysis showed that the independent risk factors were proteinuria , elevated plasma creatinine concentration and hypertension ; gender and the presence of persistent reflux had no independent influence on the course of renal failure . 
magnetic resonance imaging of congenital heart disease in the pediatric patient . current state-of-the-art mr imaging offers a high resolution evaluation of cardiac anatomy in the child with congenital heart disease . although echocardiography remains the standard initial evaluation modality , mr imaging plays a key role in supplementing this information in the pediatric thorax . although applications for this modality continue to be defined , some indications have become clear . the future of mr imaging promises better spatial resolution , faster image acquisition times , and in vivo spectroscopic capabilities . 
radiographic manifestations of congenital anomalies of the spine . although the foregoing review of embryologic development and congenital anomalies of the spine in infants and children is necessarily brief , the most commonly encountered abnormalities have been reviewed , and when possible , an attempt has been made to cite the stage of embryologic development at which the various abnormalities originate . as noted , congenital abnormalities of the spine are relatively uncommon but may be of profound clinical significance . during the past decade , the most significant developments in the diagnosis and treatment of these abnormalities have been ultrasonography , ct scanning , and mr imaging . in the neonate , the spinal cord and neural outflow can be evaluated by ultrasonography until the osseous elements begin to fuse . thereafter , mr imaging is the procedure of choice because it permits evaluation of the spine and spinal cord in all planes of imaging and provides detailed evaluation of the effect of osseous abnormalities on neural structures . finally , plain radiographs of the spine for evaluation of neonates who have any of a spectrum of sacral dimples are rarely helpful , and in the presence of significant cutaneous or subcutaneous abnormalities , ultrasonography is the preferred modality for evaluation . 
effect of left ventricular aneurysm on risk of sudden and nonsudden cardiac death . although left ventricular ( lv ) aneurysm is associated with increased mortality , its independent prognostic significance is controversial . to determine the effect of lv aneurysm on risk , 121 patients with healed myocardial infarction ( mi ) , 55 manifesting akinesia on ventriculography ( mi group ) and 66 with lv aneurysm characterized by diastolic deformity ( eccentricity ) and systolic dyskinesia ( lv aneurysm group ) were studied . at a mean follow-up of 5.7 years , there were 32 cardiac deaths ( 12 mi vs 20 lv aneurysm ) , including 9 sudden deaths ( 1 mi vs 8 lv aneurysm ) . multivariate analysis revealed decreasing ejection fraction to be the best predictor of total cardiac death , and revascularization to be protective . nonsudden cardiac death was predicted by ejection fraction , absence of revascularization and right coronary artery disease , whereas sudden cardiac death was predicted by lv aneurysm and the frequency of ventricular ectopic complexes on holter monitoring . in the mi group , ejection fraction was the only significant predictor of total cardiac death and nonsudden cardiac death . in the lv aneurysm group , total cardiac death , as well as nonsudden cardiac death , were predicted by ejection fraction , ventricular tachycardia and right coronary artery disease , whereas ventricular tachycardia predicted sudden cardiac death . it is concluded that the risk profile for total cardiac death differs between lv aneurysm and mi patients , and that lv aneurysm constitutes an independent predictor of late sudden cardiac death after mi . moreover , on a substrate of lv aneurysm , the risk factors for sudden cardiac death and nonsudden cardiac death differ , with ventricular tachycardia being the sole predictor of sudden cardiac death . furthermore , holter monitoring is valuable in identifying patients at persistent risk of sudden cardiac death . 
characteristics of accessory pathways exhibiting decremental conduction . the prevalence , electrophysiologic characteristics and functional significance of decremental conduction over an accessory pathway were examined in this retrospective study of 653 patients who had an accessory pathway demonstrated at electrophysiologic study . decremental conduction was identified in 50 patients ( 7.6 % ) . in 15 patients with anterograde decremental conduction , the accessory pathway was right parietal or septal in 14 patients and left parietal in 1 patient . in the 40 patients with retrograde decrement , the accessory pathway was left parietal in 19 , posteroseptal in 13 , right parietal in 2 and right anteroseptal in 6 patients . anterograde conduction over the accessory pathway was absent in 11 of the 40 patients with retrograde decrement . retrograde conduction over the accessory pathway was absent in 9 patients with anterograde decrement . there was no significant difference in the accessory pathway effective refractory period , or shortest cycle length with 1:1 conduction over the accessory pathway in anterograde and retrograde directions . the shortest rr interval in atrial fibrillation between 2 preexcited qrs complexes was longer in patients with anterograde decremental conduction than in a control group of patients with anterograde-conducting accessory pathways without decremental properties . these data demonstrate that decremental conduction over accessory pathways is uncommon . anterograde decremental conduction usually occurs in right-sided or septal pathways that often do not conduct in the retrograde direction . 
usefulness of d , i sotalol for suppression of chronic ventricular arrhythmias . sotalol is a unique beta-blocking drug , possessing significant class iii antiarrhythmic activity . the efficacy and safety of 2 doses of sotalol ( 320 and 640 mg/day , divided in 2 doses ) were compared to placebo in a 6-week randomized , double-blind , multicenter study of 114 patients with chronic ventricular premature complexes ( vpcs ) at frequencies of greater than or equal to 30/hour . sotalol significantly reduced vpcs in patients receiving both low ( n = 38 ) and high ( n = 39 ) doses , compared with patients ( n = 37 ) receiving placebo ( by 75 and 88 % , respectively , vs 10 % ; p less than 0.001 , sotalol vs placebo ; p less than 0.05 , high vs low dose ) . the individual efficacy criterion ( greater than or equal to 75 % vpc reduction ) was achieved in 34 % of low-dose and 71 % of high-dose sotalol versus 6 % of placebo-treated patients ( p less than 0.003 , sotalol vs placebo ; p = 0.007 , high vs low dose ) . repetitive beats were suppressed 25 % by placebo ( difference not significant ) , 80 % by low-dose ( p less than 0.003 ) and 78 % by high-dose sotalol ( p less than 0.005 ) . sotalol decreased heart rate ( by 24 to 25 % , p less than 0.001 ) and increased pr ( by 4 to 6 % , p less than 0.001 ) and corrected jt intervals ( by 12 to 13 % , p less than 0.001 ) , but did not change ejection fraction . proarrhythmia ( nonfatal ) occurred in 3 sotalol and in 2 placebo patients . nine discontinued therapy because of adverse effects ( 1 low dose and 8 high dose , p less than 0.02 ) . in summary , sotalol is an efficacious antiarrhythmic drug for vpc suppression ; in lower doses , it is somewhat less effective but better tolerated . 
diltiazem therapy for symptoms associated with nutcracker esophagus . a randomized double-blind , cross-over prospective trial in 22 patients was designed to evaluate possible effect of an oral calcium channel blocker , diltiazem , on symptoms of chest pain and/or dysphagia in patients with nutcracker esophagus . we studied 22 consecutive patients referred to an esophageal diagnostic center for evaluation of noncardiac chest pain or dysphagia having high amplitude esophageal contractions , 14 of whom completed the study . diltiazem ( 60-90 mg qid ) was compared with placebo , each being administered for 8 wk . patients were evaluated with esophageal motility pre - and posttreatment periods and with regular symptom assessment throughout each 8-wk treatment . active diltiazem therapy resulted in significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) mean distal esophageal peristaltic pressure ( 128 + / - 20 mm hg ; + / - se ) than placebo ( 158 + / - 16 mm hg ) . mean chest pains scores were significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) lower with diltiazem therapy than with placebo . only nine of the 14 patients fulfilled presently acceptable criteria for diagnosing nutcracker esophagus , and the diltiazem effect was similar , although not significant , because of the smaller sample . conclusions : in this preliminary study involving 14 patients , the oral calcium channel blocker , diltiazem , appeared to improve noncardiac chest pain associated with strong esophageal contraction , the nutcracker esophagus . these improved symptoms were associated with significant decreases in contraction pressure . 
a topographical relationship between helicobacter pylori and gastritis : quantitative assessment of helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa . a topographical relationship between the number of helicobacter pylori in the gastric mucosa and the histological severity of gastritis was studied in 902 pairs of biopsy specimens taken from 314 patients . a pair of biopsies were taken from the antrum , the lesser curvature of the middle body , and the greater curvature of the upper body of the stomach . the quantitative assessment of h. pylori was made based on smear , culture , and tissue section . the histological severity of gastritis was assessed as to the degrees of mononuclear cell and polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration . a positive correlation was confirmed between the number of h. pylori and the severity of polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration . the degrees of inflammatory cells infiltration in the specimens with h. pylori colonization were significantly lower in the upper body than in the antrum . 
the perception of life events and daily stress in nonulcer dyspepsia . previous studies on the association of nonulcer dyspepsia with major life events were performed without emphasis on the perception of these events , and have yielded conflicting results . the present study examined the perception of life events and , in addition , the role of daily " hassles " ( stressful events ) in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia . thirty-three dyspeptic patients as defined by normal endoscopy and ultrasonogram and 33 controls of comparable sex , age , and social class were recruited for study . both groups were asked to select from 56 major life events those they had experienced and to give a rating on how they perceived them . they were further asked to select similarly from 117 items of daily stress and to rate the severity of each item . the results demonstrated that the number of positive and negative events and the positive score were similar in both dyspeptic patients and controls , but dyspeptic patients had a higher perceived magnitude of negative events and a higher score of total life change as given by the summation of magnitude of positive and negative events ( both p less than 0.05 ) . the " hassles " scores were not significantly different between dyspeptic patients and controls . analysis of individual life events revealed that dyspeptic patients had significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) higher scores than controls in items of minor law violations , major change in closeness of family members , and major personal illness or injury . we conclude that patients with nonulcer dyspepsia have higher negative perception of major life events , which indicates that psychological factors may play a role in the pathogenesis of nonulcer dyspepsia . 
undetected fatal acute pancreatitis : why is the disease so frequently overlooked ? an analysis of postmortem investigations between 1980 and 1985 revealed 43 patients with acute pancreatitis . in 13 ( 30.2 % ) of them , the diagnosis was first established at autopsy . in eight of the latter patients , the diagnosis could have been present on admission . the etiology was alcoholism in three patients , hypothermia in one , biliary tract disease in one , and unknown in three patients . in five patients , acute pancreatitis developed after gastric , pancreatic , or biliary tract surgery . abdominal pain was present in only one patient . amylase levels had been estimated in 11 patients , but the level was in the diagnostic range ( greater than or equal to 3 times of upper normal level ) in only four . consequently , ultrasound examination was performed in only two of the latter four patients , but failed to show the pancreas because of intestinal gas . to diagnose acute pancreatitis at an earlier stage and to improve therapy and prognosis , we recommend that serum amylase levels be measured and ultrasound examination be performed . if the results are inconclusive , this should be followed by computed tomography for all abdominal emergency cases and for patients who have undergone cardiopulmonary or upper abdominal surgery , especially when the patients deteriorate or fail to improve postoperatively . 
prolonged treatment of children with chronic hepatitis b with recombinant alpha 2a-interferon : a controlled , randomized study . a prospective study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of alpha-interferon in 20 children with biopsy-proven hbsag/hbeag/hbv-dna-positive , anti-delta-negative chronic hepatitis . patients were randomized to receive alpha 2a-interferon ( inf ) , 3 mu im three times weekly for 12 months , or no treatment ( 10 patients per group ) . five patients receiving ifn showed a marked decrease or negativization of hbv-dna during treatment . at the end of the study ( after 18 month ) , three patients lost hbv-dna permanently , and two of them seroconverted to hbeab 10 and 11 months after disappearance of hbv-dna with normalization of aminotransferase values . in the control group , one patient had spontaneous clearance of hbv-dna with conversion to hbeab and normalization of aminotransferase levels . all treated patients had a febrile reaction in the first month of treatment . the dose of ifn had to be decreased in two patients and was discontinued for persistent intolerance in one of them . patients who showed a decreased viral replication had higher initial biochemical and histological activity than nonresponders . the data suggest that ifn treatment may favorably influence the progression of chronic b hepatitis in children with a history of acute hepatitis and active chronic disease . 
cluster of fulminant hepatitis b in crack users . fulminant hepatitis occurs in only 1 % of acute hepatitis b patients , requiring hospitalization , but coinfection with delta virus increases the incidence . hepatitis b and d infection are commonly associated with intravenous drug abuse , but there have been no previous reports of an association with nonparenteral cocaine . crack use , via sexual promiscuity , is associated with an increased risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection , but has never been associated with viral hepatitis . we report four fatal cases of fulminant hepatitis b including , one with delta virus coinfection and one with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , in young , sexually active , heterosexual crack users . these patients denied a history of intravenous drug abuse . our patients probably contracted hepatitis b infection via heterosexual contact . chronic cocaine exposure may or may not have contributed to the fulminant outcome . crack users may be at increased risk of developing hepatitis b and d infection . epidemiological studies are needed to evaluate their risk of viral hepatitis and the effect of cocaine on its outcome . 
gaucher 's disease complicated by bleeding esophageal varices and colonic infiltration by gaucher cells . we report a 10-yr-old child with gaucher 's disease who developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding from esophageal varices , as well as hemorrhage from a colonic polyp infiltrated with gaucher cells . both the varices and polyp were treated endoscopically , and the outcome was successful . although gastrointestinal hemorrhage due to portal hypertension is considered a rare complication of gaucher 's disease , colonic infiltration with gaucher cells has not been recognized previously . 
peritoneal blastomycosis . blastomycosis is a systemic fungal infection caused by blastomyces dermatitidis . involvement of the peritoneum is unusual , with only two previously reported cases that occurred in association with disseminated disease . a single case of histopathologically proven blastomycosis involving the peritoneum is presented , as well as a short overview of previously published cases on gastrointestinal and peritoneal blastomycosis . the case is unique in that chronic peritonitis was the only manifestation of disease . the diagnosis was made by laparoscopy . 
cerebrovascular complications of inflammatory bowel disease . there is an increased incidence of central nervous system thromboembolic events in young patients with inflammatory bowel disease . a 33-yr-old woman previously diagnosed with pseudotumor cerebri suffered superior sagittal and transverse sinus thromboses during a severe flare of ulcerative colitis . these were documented on contrast computed tomographic ( ct ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) scans . stroke may be more common in patients with ulcerative colitis than in patients with crohn 's disease ; arterial disease is more prevalent than venous and dural sinus disease , and is correlated with an active phase of inflammatory bowel disease . it is difficult to assess whether there is a relationship to concurrent steroid use , and a consistent relationship to duration of inflammatory bowel disease or to other extraintestinal manifestations is not apparent . 
giardia lamblia infestation reveals underlying whipple 's disease in a patient with longstanding constipation . whipple 's disease is an uncommon disorder , generally associated with gastrointestinal symptoms ; of these , diarrhea is a common feature . we report a case of whipple 's disease associated with chronic constipation which was not diagnosed until after giardia lamblia infestation had caused diarrhea . to the best of our knowledge this association has not previously been reported . the clinical , laboratory , endoscopic , and manometric aspects are described and discussed . 
mapping of the locus for x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria ( barth syndrome ) to xq28 . x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria is clinically characterized by congenital dilated cardiomyopathy , skeletal myopathy , recurrent bacterial infections , and growth retardation . we analyzed linkage between the disease locus and x-chromosomal markers in a family with seven carriers , four patients , and eight unaffected sons of carriers . highest lod scores obtained by two-point linkage analysis were 2.70 for st14 .1 ( dxs52 , taqi ) at a recombination fraction of zero and 2.53 for cpx67 ( dxs134 ) at a recombination fraction of zero . multipoint linkage analysis resulted in a maximum lod score of 5.24 at the position of st35 .691 ( dxs305 ) . the most distal recombination detected in this family was located between the markers ii-10 ( dxs466 ) and dx13 ( dxs15 ) . these data indicate the location of the mutated gene at xq28 . 
mtdna depletion with variable tissue expression : a novel genetic abnormality in mitochondrial diseases . we studied two related infants with a fatal mitochondrial disease , affecting muscle in one and liver in the other . quantitative analysis revealed a severe depletion of mtdna in affected tissues . this genetic abnormality was also observed in muscle of an unrelated infant with myopathy and in muscle and kidney of a fourth child with myopathy and nephropathy . biochemistry , immunohistochemistry , and in situ hybridization showed that the depletion of mtdna in muscle fibers was correlated with a respiratory chain defect and with lack of mitochondrially translated proteins . although the differential tissue involvement in these infants suggests mtdna heteroplasmy , sequence analysis of mtdna replication origins did not reveal any abnormality that could account for the low copy number . 
deficiency of complex iii of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in a patient with facioscapulohumeral disease . facioscapulohumeral disease ( fshd ) , an inherited neuromuscular disorder , is characterized by progressive wasting of specific muscle groups , particularly the proximal musculature of the upper limbs ; the primary defect in this disorder is unknown . we studied a patient with fshd to determine whether the mitochondrial respiratory chain was functionally abnormal . muscle biopsy revealed fiber atrophy with patchy staining for oxidative enzymes . electron microscopy of a liver section showed many enlarged mitochondria with paracrystalline inclusions . decreased oxidation of the respiratory substrates-alanine and succinate-in skin fibroblasts suggested a deficiency of complex iii of the electron-transport chain ; cytochrome c oxidase activity ( complex iv ) was in the normal range . biochemical analysis of liver supported the fibroblast data , since succinate oxidase activity ( electron-transport activity through complexes ii-iv ) was reduced , whereas complex iv activity was normal . furthermore , analysis of the cytochrome spectrum in liver revealed typical peaks for cytochromes cc1 and aa3 , whereas cytochrome b ( a component of complex iii ) was undetectable . southern blot analysis of fibroblast mtdna revealed no major deletions or rearrangements . our study provides the first documentation of a specific enzyme-complex deficiency associated with fshd . 
characterization of a large deletion associated with a polymorphic block of repeated dinucleotides in the type iii procollagen gene ( col3a1 ) of a patient with ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv . ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv ( eds iv ) is an autosomal dominant condition characterized by extreme fragility of skin , blood vessels , intestine , gravid uterus , and lungs . the phenotype is accounted for by mutations affecting the integrity and/or synthesis of the precursor procollagen molecules of type iii collagen . in this article , we report the elucidation of the molecular defect in an eds iv patient whose type iii collagen was previously found to be structurally abnormal . we utilized pcr in a two-step process involving first the localization of the mutation in the mrna and then the characterization of the defect in the gene . the results established the patient 's heterozygosity for a genomic deletion of about 7.5 kb which eliminates 1,026 nucleotides of coding sequences in the message . the mutation arose as a result of an exon-to-intron recombination . the deleted segment extends from the 13th nucleotide of exon 9 to within a dna sequence of intron 24 , which is composed of a series of dinucleotide repeats . using pcr , we tested the polymorphic nature of this dna element on several unrelated individuals . analysis of amplified genomic products of 45 chromosomes recognized at least four distinct allelic forms that display frequencies ranging from 5 % to 61 % . mendelian segregation of three of the four alleles was established by the same method in a 3-generation family . 
clinical and molecular diagnosis of miller-dieker syndrome . we report results of clinical , cytogenetic , and molecular studies in 27 patients with miller-dieker syndrome ( mds ) from 25 families . all had severe type i lissencephaly with grossly normal cerebellum and a distinctive facial appearance consisting of prominent forehead , bitemporal hollowing , short nose with upturned nares , protuberant upper lip , thin vermilion border , and small jaw . several other abnormalities , especially growth deficiency , were frequent but not constant . chromosome analysis showed deletion of band 17p13 in 14 of 25 mds probands . rflp and somatic cell hybrid studies using probes from the 17p13 .3 region including pynz22 ( d17s5 ) , pynh37 ( d17s28 ) , and p144-d6 ( d17s34 ) detected deletions in 19 of 25 probands tested including seven in whom chromosome analysis was normal . when the cytogenetic and molecular data are combined , deletions were detected in 21 of 25 probands . parental origin of de novo deletions was determined in 11 patients . paternal origin occurred in seven and maternal origin in four . our demonstration of cytogenetic or molecular deletions in 21 of 25 mds probands proves that deletion of a " critical region " comprising two or more genetic loci within band 17p13 .3 is the cause of the mds phenotype . we suspect that the remaining patients have smaller deletions involving the proposed critical region which are not detected with currently available probes . 
outcomes of pregnancies among women and partners of men with a history of exposure to methoxsalen photochemotherapy ( puva ) for the treatment of psoriasis . because oral methoxsalen and uv-a radiation ( puva ) therapy is mutagenic , concern exists about the potential for teratogenic effects resulting from the use of this therapy at the time of conception and during pregnancy . after 12.8 years of prospective study , we documented the pregnancy outcomes among 1380 patients ( 892 men and 488 women ) who received puva treatments . ninety-four men reported 167 pregnancies in their partners , and 93 women reported 159 pregnancies . for 34 % of pregnancies among partners of male patients , the man received puva therapy near the time of conception . nineteen percent of female patients reported exposure to puva at the time of conception or during pregnancy . induced and spontaneous abortions were reported as the outcome of pregnancy more often by female than by male patients ( 12 % vs 30 % ) . two congenital malformations and two stillbirths occurred , an incidence not significantly different from that expected for the general population . although the power of our study to detect an increase in the risk of specific defects is limited , our data show no evidence to suggest that puva is a potent teratogen . still , because puva is mutagenic , we believe it prudent for patients to avoid puva treatment during pregnancy whenever practical . 
severe gastrointestinal hemorrhage in crohn 's disease . twenty-one of fifteen hundred twenty-six patients with crohn 's disease ( cd ) treated at the mount sinai hospital between 1960 and 1986 developed severe gastrointestinal hemorrhage . there were 26 separate episodes of severe hemorrhage : 17 patients bled only once , three bled twice and one bled three times . the frequency of bleeding was significantly higher among patients with colonic involvement ( 17 of 929 ; 1.9 % ) than among those with small bowel disease alone ( 4 of 597 ; 0.7 % ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . twelve patients required surgery on 13 occasions , which involved colon resection in all but one case . eleven of these patients underwent surgery during their first hemorrhagic episodes , and 1 of 11 had a second operation for recurrent bleeding ; the 12th patient , whose first hemorrhage had been treated medically , had surgery during a repeated episode of hemorrhage . the precise bleeding points could be located in only 2 of the 26 bleeding episodes , both at the ileocecal area . three patients died , of whom two had not undergone surgery when they had bled a few weeks earlier . primary bleeding episodes subsided without surgery in 10 of 21 cases , but 3 of these 10 patients ( 30 % ) rebled massively . by contrast primary excisional surgery was followed by recurrent hemorrhage in only 1 of 11 cases ( 9 % ) . these differences in mortality and in recurrent bleeding rates , although not statistically significant , seem to favor removal of diseased bowel at the time of the first episode of massive hemorrhage . 
indications for computed tomography in children with blunt abdominal trauma . this investigation was undertaken to identify clinical variables , alone or in combination , that could be used to assign children to high - and low-risk categories for intra-abdominal injury following blunt trauma . six hundred consecutive children who were examined with computed tomography ( ct ) following blunt trauma were enrolled . complete data sets were available on 375 children . stepwise logistic regression was used to identify predictor variables for the presence of abdominal injury . there were 174 children with abdominal injury detected by ct . of these , 95 were classified as having significant injury . indicators associated with significantly higher risk of abdominal injury included the following : more than three clinical indications given ( odds likelihood ratio [ olr ] = 4.60 , 95 % confidence interval [ 95 % cl ] = 2.29 , 9.21 , p less than 0.001 ) ; gross hematuria ( olr = 5.80 , 95 % cl = 2.51 , 13.4 , p less than 0.001 ) ; lap belt injury ( olr = 12.2 , 95 % cl = 2.22 , 66.8 , p less than 0.01 ) ; assault or abuse as the mechanism of injury ( olr = 5.08 , 95 % cl = 1.07 , 24.2 , p less than 0.05 ) ; abdominal tenderness ( olr = 2.73 , 95 % cl = 1.296 , 5.82 , p less than 0.01 ) ; and trauma score less than or equal to 12 ( olr = 2.27 , 95 % cl = 1.006 , 5.13 , p less than 0.01 ) . no child with asymptomatic hematuria ( n = 56 ) , regardless of grade or neurologic impairment in the absence of abdominal findings ( n = 15 ) , had an abnormal ct examination . these data are useful as an adjunct to clinical judgment in triage when the availability of ct equipment is limited or there are competing extra-abdominal injuries . 
human liver regeneration after major hepatectomy . a study of liver volume by computed tomography . regeneration of the remnant liver after major hepatectomy in humans was studied by computed axial tomography ( ct ) in 12 noncirrhotic and five cirrhotic patients . liver volumes were measured by abdominal ct 3 days , 10 days , 3 months , 6 months , 1 year , and 1.5 years after resection . of the 17 patients , liver remnant volume was increased in 21.2 % + / - 6.7 % and 30.6 % + / - 12.7 % at 3 months and 6 months after resection , respectively . noncirrhotic livers were 28.4 % + / - 9.5 % and 48.4 % + / - 17.8 % larger at 3 and 6 months . for cirrhotic livers , the increase was 8.5 % + / - 3.6 % and 12.9 % + / - 4.5 % . in five patients with right hepatectomy ( 65 % resection ) , the liver remnant volumes were increased 38.4 % + / - 11.7 % , 48.0 % + / - 16.2 % and 95.1 % + / - 4.5 % at 3 months , 6 months , and 1 year after resection , respectively . in seven patients with right partial hepatectomy ( 30 % to 35 % resection ) , the percentages were 7.4 % + / - 3.2 % , 21.8 % + / - 8.4 % , and 63.9 % + / - 18.3 % and in five patients with left lateral segmentectomy ( 15 % resection ) , they were 15.6 % + / - 8.2 % , 27.8 % + / - 12.2 % , and 33.0 % + / - 14.5 % 3 months , 6 months , and 1 year after resections , respectively . noncirrhotic livers showed better regeneration than cirrhotic livers . complete regeneration took about 1 year . the noncirrhotic liver that underwent right lobectomy also needed 1 year to double its postresection volume . 
a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit for biliary atresia . forty-six consecutive patients with biliary atresia were operated on at our institution during the 11-year period between 1978 and 1989 . their ages at operation ranged from 18 to 153 days ( mean , 59 days ) . after dissecting the porta hepatis structures by kasai operation , a biliointestinal anastomosis was constructed with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit in all cases . the intestinal valve is an intussuscepted muscular valve . valvular function was examined radiologically . the upper gastrointestinal series demonstrated no reflux of contrast material into the conduit proximal to the valve and liver scintigraphy demonstrated that radioactive isotope drained readily into the duodenum through the valve . thirty-nine of the forty-six patients ( 85 % ) had bile drainage after initial operation . at present 30 patients ( 65 % ) are alive without jaundice , 6 ( 13 % ) are alive with jaundice , and 10 ( 22 % ) are dead . the 5-year jaundice-free survival rate was 64 % . cholangitis occurred in 9 of 39 patients ( 23 % ) who had obtained apparent bile drainage : 5 had tractable cholangitis and 4 had refractory cholangitis . reoperation restored bile flow in 2 of 8 patients who abruptly ceased to have bile drainage without cholangitis . in conclusion , with a valved hepatic portoduodenal intestinal conduit , the incidence of cholangitis was decreased , its medical control became easier , and the survival rate was improved . 
defining the role of subtotal colectomy in the treatment of carcinoma of the colon . seventy-two patients with colon cancer were treated by primary subtotal colectomy , including 23 patients with acute and subacute left colon obstruction . there were two operative deaths and no cases of disabling diarrhea . one death occurred in the group with colon obstruction . other indications for subtotal colectomy included multiple polyps associated with the primary tumor ( 32 ) , synchronous carcinomas ( 15 ) , a previous transverse colostomy for obstruction ( 8 ) , associated severe sigmoid diverticular disease ( 2 ) , age less than 50 years with a positive family history ( 3 ) , adherence of the sigmoid loop to a cecal tumor ( 2 ) , and metachronous carcinoma ( 2 ) . there were multiple indications in several patients . subtotal colectomy has a defined role in a wide variety of clinical settings associated with colon cancer , including management of obstruction of the left and sigmoid colon , particularly if the proximal colon can not be evaluated before operation by colonoscopy or barium enema . segmental or regional colonic resections are appropriate if the entire colon can be evaluated before operation and no associated neoplasms are revealed . 
elevated plasma endothelin-1 concentrations are associated with the severity of illness in patients with sepsis . plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1 concentrations were determined by radioimmunoassay in 11 septic patients during the first 24 hours after the development of the sepsis syndrome in 15 nonseptic postoperative patients studied 24 hours after open heart surgery and in 14 healthy volunteers . mean endothelin-1 plasma concentrations were significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) increased in septic patients ( 19.9 + / - 2.2 pg/ml , mean + / - standard error ) compared to concentrations found in postoperative cardiac patients ( 11.9 + / - 0.7 pg/ml ) or in healthy volunteers ( 6.1 + / - 0.3 pg/ml ) . in septic patients elevated plasma concentrations of endothelin-1 were inversely correlated with cardiac index ( r = -0.80 , p less than 0.005 ) and positively correlated the severity of illness as documented by apache ii score ( r = 0.74 , p less than 0.01 ) and plasma creatinine levels ( r = 0.80 , p less than 0.005 ) . no such correlations were found in postoperative cardiac patients . these results indicate that endothelin-1 concentrations are correlated with the severity of illness and depression of cardiac output in patients with sepsis . 
blockade of prostaglandin production increases cachectin synthesis and prevents depression of macrophage functions after hemorrhagic shock . although hemorrhage severely depresses macrophage functions , it is not known whether the increased tnf-alpha or pge2 production is responsible for it . to study this c3h/hen mice were bled to mean blood pressure of 35 mmhg for 60 minutes , resuscitated , and treated with either ibuprofen ( 1.0 mg/kg body weight ) or vehicle ( saline ) . hemorrhage increased plasma prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) levels by 151.7 % + / - 40.0 % ( p less than 0.05 ) and significantly decreased peritoneal macrophage ( pm phi ) antigen presentation ( ap ) by 60.5 % + / - 7.3 % , ia expression by 52.3 % + / - 7.6 % , and interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) synthesis by 60.5 % + / - 12.3 % compared to shams . however ibuprofen treatment reduced pge2 plasma levels by 61.3 % + / - 12.1 % and significantly increased ap ( +237.0 % + / - 95.3 % ) , ia expression ( +72.8 % + / - 27.5 % ) , il-1 synthesis ( +235.7 % + / - 134.7 % ) , and cachectin synthesis ( +485.8 % + / - 209.0 % ) compared to vehicle-treated animals . these results indicate that prostaglandins but not cachectin are involved in the suppression of pm phi functions following hemorrhage because blockade of prostaglandin synthesis improved depressed macrophage functions despite enhanced cachectin synthesis . 
simultaneous bilateral hernia repair . a case against conventional wisdom . the timing of bilateral hernia repair remains controversial . because of reported high recurrence rates after simultaneous bilateral repair , staged procedures have been suggested . this study determined recurrence and complication rates of unilateral versus simultaneous bilateral repair . of 659 patients undergoing hernia repair between 1974 and 1980 , 333 underwent unilateral repair and 329 had simultaneous bilateral repair . more than 90 % of patients were followed until death or a minimum of 60 months ( median , 104 months ) . perioperative complications were associated with 18 % of repairs . more morbidity occurred in the bilateral group . however complication rates for specific events were not significantly different , except for urinary retention , which occurred in 20 patients ( 6.1 % ) of the unilateral group and 49 ( 15 % ) of the bilateral group ( p less than 0.001 ) . overall 25 recurrences occurred in the unilateral group and 31 in the bilateral group . recurrence rates at 5 and 9 years were , respectively , 4.8 % and 8.8 % in the unilateral group and 5.0 % and 9.1 % in the bilateral group ( p = 0.861 ) . these data suggest that simultaneous bilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy does not result in increased rates of most postoperative complications or recurrence when compared with unilateral repair . 
site of action of continuous extrapleural intercostal nerve block . continuous extrapleural intercostal nerve block has been shown in a randomized , controlled study to be effective in reducing postoperative pain after thoracotomy and in restoring pulmonary mechanics . to assess the extent of spread of bupivacaine infused through an extrapleurally placed cannula inserted at thoracotomy , iohexol ( omnipaque ) was infused at 5 days postoperatively in 5 patients and computed tomography performed . the contrast medium was confined to the paravertebral space covering on average six intercostal spaces . this study demonstrated that anatomically , the site of action of the bupivacaine infused through an extrapleural cannula was primarily in the paravertebral space . 
role of percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy in suspected intrathoracic malignancy . percutaneous fine-needle aspiration ( pfna ) biopsy is an accepted technique for the diagnosis of suspected intrathoracic malignancy , but the appropriate indications for its use have not been clearly defined . to help establish guidelines , we performed a retrospective analysis of 188 patients who underwent pfna biopsy for suspected intrathoracic malignancy . biopsy led to a diagnosis in 72 % ( 135/188 ) of the patients , but in 27 % ( 50/188 ) samples were inadequate for cytological diagnosis , and in 2 % ( 3/188 ) samples were adequate but failed to yield a diagnosis . fifty-three patients underwent surgical intervention , thus allowing histological confirmation of the cytological diagnosis . in patients with a diagnosis from pfna biopsy , operation confirmed malignancy in 97 % ( 37/38 ) and a specific cell type in 79 % ( 30/38 ) . in patients without a diagnosis after biopsy , a malignancy was found in 73 % ( 11/15 ) at the time of operation . this suggests a high rate of accuracy when pfna biopsy provides a diagnosis . however , it also illustrates that a substantial percentage of pfna biopsy attempts fail to yield a diagnosis in patients ultimately found to have malignancies . this implies that pfna biopsy might best be reserved for patients who are not surgical candidates . 
replacement of the aortic valve or root with a pulmonary autograft in children . between january 1967 and december 1988 , 34 patients ranging in age from 3 to 18 years ( mean , 14 + / - 3.6 years ) underwent replacement of the aortic valve or root with their own pulmonary valve . the indication for operation was left ventricular outflow obstruction in 16 patients ( 47 % ) , aortic regurgitation in 14 ( 41 % ) , mixed aortic valve disease in 3 ( 9 % ) , and failure of a previously implanted aortic homograft in 1 ( 3 % ) . there were four early deaths , all before 1971 , giving a hospital mortality of 11.8 % ( 70 % confidence interval , 6 % to 20 % ) . surviving patients have been followed up a cumulative total of 214 patient-years , the longest period of observation being 16 years 8 months . late mortality was 13.3 % ( 70 % confidence interval , 7 % to 23 % ) , and 4 other patients required removal of the pulmonary autograft for endocarditis . actuarial rates at 16 years were 74 % + / - 11 % for freedom from reoperation on the left ventricular outflow tract , 80 % + / - 10 % for freedom from reoperation on the right ventricular outflow tract , and 77 % + / - 10 % for late survival . there was no instance of primary structural degeneration in the pulmonary autograft , and all surviving patients were in new york heart association functional class i without medication . this experience demonstrates that the pulmonary autograft can achieve good early and medium-term results in young patients . should growth potential be realized , it might constitute the ideal biological valve for the left ventricular outflow in children . 
failure of hancock pericardial xenografts : is prophylactic bioprosthetic replacement justified ? the incidence of major valve-related complications was evaluated in a series of patients in whom the hancock pericardial xenograft was used for aortic ( avr ; n = 84 ) , mitral ( mvr ; n = 17 ) and mitral-aortic ( mavr ; n = 13 ) valve replacement . at 7 years actuarial survival is 66 % + / - 8 % after avr , 64 % + / - 13 % after mvr , and 41 % + / - 15 % after mavr , whereas actuarial freedom from valve-related death is 79 % + / - 7 % after avr , 78 % + / - 13 % after mvr , and 81 % + / - 12 % after mavr . actuarial freedom from thromboemboli and anticoagulant-related hemorrhage at 7 years is 93 % + / - 4 % and 98 % + / - 2 % after avr and 83 % + / - 10 % and 88 % + / - 11 % after mvr ; no such complications occurred after mavr . structural valve deterioration determined at reoperation , at autopsy , or by clinical investigation was observed in 34 patients with avr ( 10.0 + / - 0.2 % / patient-year ) , in 10 with mvr ( 10.6 + / - 3.3 % / patient-year ) , and in 9 with mavr ( 16.6 + / - 5.5 % / patient-year ) . after avr , 19 patients underwent reoperation and 2 died before reoperation ; 4 patients with mvr underwent reoperation , and 7 patients with mavr underwent reoperation and 1 died before reoperation . seventy-eight percent of the current survivors ( 13 patients with avr , 7 with mvr , and 1 with mavr ) have clinical evidence of valve failure . at 7 years actuarial freedom from structural deterioration of the hancock pericardial xenograft is 25 % + / - 7 % after avr , 29 % + / - 14 % after mvr , and 0 % after mavr . 
management of aortic insufficiency in chronic aortic dissection . from january 1980 to december 1988 , 44 patients with chronic aortic dissection and aortic insufficiency underwent operation . this group of patients was analyzed to evaluate the outcome of those in whom the aortic valve was preserved compared with those having valve replacement . the overall preoperative characteristics of the two groups were similar except for the incidence of marfan 's syndrome . valve replacement was the elected procedure in patients with valve degeneration or annuloaortic ectasia . in patients with leaflet prolapse with or without an enlarged annulus , a plastic procedure was used . in 48 % of the patients , it was possible to preserve the valve . there were five hospital deaths ( 11 % ) : three were due to low-output syndrome , one was due to bleeding , and one was due to neurological complications . there were two late deaths ( 5 % ) . follow-up of the 37 surviving patients ranged from 2 to 108 months ( mean follow-up , 18 months ) . seventy-eight percent of the survivors were in functional class i and the others were in class ii . two patients in whom the aortic valve was preserved had mild aortic insufficiency . three patients with bioprostheses underwent reoperation because of prosthetic valve dysfunction . one patient who had aortoplasty and an aortic valve plastic procedure was seen with redissection and aortic insufficiency after 60 months and was reoperated on using the bentall technique . the actuarial survival curves showed that patients who underwent valvoplasty had higher , but not significantly higher , survival rates than the valve replacement patients . 
reoperation for persistent outflow obstruction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . this study compares results of a second left ventricular myotomy and myectomy ( m + m ) with those of mitral valve replacement ( mvr ) as reoperative procedures for persistent left ventricular outflow obstruction after m + m in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . comparison of the second m + m group ( n = 12 ) with the mvr group ( n = 11 ) disclosed significant difference ( p less than 0.05 ) in mean age at the initial operation ( 29 + / - 11 years versus 40 + / - 8 years ) , interval between operations ( 46 + / - 57 months versus 18 + / - 13 months ) , and age at reoperation ( 33 + / - 10 years versus 42 + / - 8 years ) ; and insignificant differences in mean preoperative functional class , cardiac index , left ventricular outflow gradients at rest or with provocation , and hospital mortality at reoperation ( 2/12 versus 1/11 ) . at 6 months after reoperation , comparison of results of a second m + m with mvr showed that mean functional class , cardiac index , and left ventricular outflow gradient at rest were similarly improved , but the outflow gradient with provocation was significantly higher in the second m + m group ( 57 + / - 44 mm hg versus 14 + / - 9 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) . total follow-up was 108 patient-years ( 100 % complete ) with an average of 5.9 years per patient in the second m + m group and 3.4 years per patient in the mvr group . actuarial survival , including hospital mortality , at 3 and 5 years was 83 % and 76 % , respectively , after the second m + m , which was similar to 92 % and 77 % after mvr . 
combined myocardial revascularization and abdominal aortic aneurysm repair . myocardial infarction remains the leading cause of early and late deaths after abdominal aortic reconstruction in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm . our approach for the past 4 years has been combined myocardial revascularization with abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in patients with good left ventricle performance . from july 1984 through june 1989 , 128 patients underwent abdominal aortic aneurysm repair . seventeen patients underwent combined abdominal aortic reconstruction with coronary artery bypass grafting . one patient died ( 5.9 % ) . the remaining patients are all well at current follow-up . our experience shows that patients with coronary artery disease and abdominal aortic aneurysm may have both lesions safely repaired as a single operative procedure . 
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm with hemoptysis . a 53-year-old man who had previously undergone resection of a left ventricular aneurysm was admitted because of hemoptysis . preoperative evaluation with computed tomographic scan and cardiac catheterization demonstrated a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior ventricular wall measuring 16 cm in diameter with protrusion into the left hemithorax . the neck of the pseudoaneurysm was a defect in the ventricular wall extending from the base of the mitral valve annulus to the insertion of the posterior papillary muscle . operative repair was performed using an albumin-coated , low-porosity dacron patch . 
an unusual complication of cardiac transplantation -- infected aortic pseudoaneurysm . infections after cardiac transplantation are a frequent cause of early morbidity and mortality . an unusual site for such a complication is at the aortic anastomotic suture line . we report a case of an infected aortic pseudoaneurysm , seen as recurrent septicemia , during the first 6 months after cardiac transplantation . 
procainamide-induced respiratory insufficiency after cardiopulmonary bypass . a 46-year-old man could not be weaned from ventilatory support while receiving procainamide . when the drug was discontinued , the patient was successfully weaned shortly thereafter . 
hemolysis due to branch pulmonary stenosis after the arterial switch procedure . an infant with d-transposition of the great arteries underwent arterial switch operation using the modified jatene technique . severe bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and mechanical hemolysis subsequently developed . the hemolysis resolved after surgical repair of the stenotic arteries . probable causes are discussed . 
false aneurysm formation of the great arteries after arterial switch operation . an infant with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent a two-staged arterial switch operation , after which mediastinal infection occurred . continuous irrigation with povidone-iodine solution was performed for 10 days . after that , the patient experienced life-threatening hemorrhage three times . at the time of the second hemorrhage , greater omental transfer was performed . on postoperative day 109 , false aneurysm was recognized , having developed from both great arteries . successful repair was performed on postoperative day 110 . 
adenocarcinoma arising in a foregut cyst of the mediastinum . a case of malignant transformation in a mediastinal cyst of the esophageal reduplication type is presented . the cyst had been recognized 39 years previously , but remained asymptomatic until sudden growth occurred . it was resected totally from the esophagus and the patient recovered well . a review of the literature showed that malignancy in mediastinal foregut cysts is extremely rare . 
fistulas between the aorta and tracheobronchial tree . aortobronchial fistula is a rare condition that is invariably fatal if not diagnosed and surgically treated . with appropriate surgical intervention , survival rates greater than 70 % can be achieved . a review of the literature and an illustrative case report are presented . a total of 63 fistulas in 62 patients have been described . the case we present is unusual in the use of serratus anterior muscle for repair of the fistula . eighty-seven percent of the cases documented in the literature were associated with an aneurysm of the thoracic aorta . eighty-six percent of the fistulas were between the descending aorta and left bronchopulmonary tree . more than 95 % of patients experienced at least a single episode of hemoptysis , and massive hemoptysis occurred in more than half of the reported cases . a correct preoperative diagnosis was made in only 54 % of cases . plain chest radiographs definitively demonstrated an aneurysm in only 16 % . the computed tomographic scan was the most rewarding test , identifying an aneurysm in 11 of 12 patients and the fistula in 50 % of them . surgical repair resulted in a 76 % survival rate . 
sexual changes in hemiparetic patients . eighty-six patients , each with hemiparesis caused by a single stroke , were studied to assess the changes in sexual life experienced after the onset of the illness . clinical data were collected , and a questionnaire concerning both sexual behavior and feelings about sexuality was administered to the patients and their spouses . twenty-four couples were eliminated from further analysis because of a discrepancy between husband and wife in the answers concerning sexual behavior after stroke . a marked decline in sexual activity after stroke was found in both genders ; other aspects of sexual behavior underwent fewer changes . the feeling of an overall change in sexual life was reported more frequently by male patients . most patients ' spouses reported the feeling of an overall psychological change in their partners and the feeling of an overall change in sexual life after the onset of the illness . no significant associations were found between clinical features and changes in sexual life . this study confirms that cerebrovascular accidents are generally followed by some important alterations in sexual life . clinical factors do not seem to play a crucial role in determining these changes , which may be better explained in terms of maladjustment attributable to psychologic and interpersonal factors . 
recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome after first rib resection . seventy-seven patients with 84 operated limbs participated in a follow-up examination on an average of about six years after the resection of the first rib for thoracic outlet syndrome ( tos ) . forty-two limbs ( 50 % ) were totally asymptomatic one month after the operation and remained so for at least half a year postoperatively . in the follow-up examination , 31 limbs were still asymptomatic , whereas 11 limbs had the same symptoms as before the operation . of the nine patients with recurrent tos ( two with bilateral resection ) , seven were women and two were men . these nine patients were on average 38 years old ( range = 19 to 51 years ) and their jobs consisted of monotonous desk work . seven of 11 stumps of the first rib were subluxated disclosed by the cervical rotation-lateral-flexion test . the occurrence of a subluxated stump of the first rib in the group of asymptomatic patients was far lower , only 3 % ( p less than .001 ) . of the 42 patients with persistent problems , a subluxated stump was encountered in seven ( 17 % ) . results of this follow-up examination suggest that monotonous desk work is an important factor causing kinesiologic abnormalities in the thoracic aperture . this abnormal kinesiology contributes to the recurrence of tos symptoms even after the resection of the first rib . 
a cellist with arm pain : thermal asymmetry in scalenus anticus syndrome . we report on a cellist with pain and coldness of the upper extremity . abnormal thermographic studies were instrumental in uncovering intermittent compression of the subclavian artery , and this prompted us to study the effects of cello playing on skin temperature asymmetry . temperature asymmetry was defined as the temperature difference ( delta-t ) from one hand to the other . in 57 controls , mean delta-t at rest was .309 + / - .254 c. exercising the upper extremities by prolonged elbow flexion or by movements mimicking cello playing in controls did not significantly affect delta-t . in our patient , delta-t was ten times control ( 3.6 c ) . angiography showed extrinsic compression of the subclavian artery occurring only after cello playing ; sympathetic ganglion block relieved the pain . our patient 's abnormal skin temperature may have reflected sympathetic vasomotor hyperactivity . intermittent neurovascular compression and sympathetic hyperactivity appear to be factors in scalenus anticus syndrome . 
spinal accessory nerve palsy : an unusual complication of coronary artery bypass the neurologic complications of coronary artery bypass surgery have been well documented , with a reported incidence of 61 % in one large study . most injuries to the peripheral nervous system involve the brachial plexus . we report the first case of a spinal accessory nerve lesion after coronary bypass surgery . the patient presented with progressive right shoulder weakness . electrodiagnostic studies revealed a partial lesion of the right spinal accessory nerve . physical therapy , including strengthening , range of motion , and electric stimulation to the right shoulder , was prescribed to assist recovery of strength and function . repeat electrodiagnostic studies confirmed nerve regeneration . prompt recognition of spinal accessory nerve damage after coronary bypass surgery is essential . early rehabilitation will improve the chances of a better functional outcome . 
simplified hepatic resection with the use of prolonged vascular inflow occlusion . ten consecutive patients scheduled to undergo liver resection were studied prospectively with the use of a standard protocol , which included routine vascular inflow occlusion to reduce blood loss and blood transfusion requirements . fibrin sealant was sprayed on the raw liver surface , and abdominal drainage was not performed . no deaths occurred , and the postoperative course was remarkably smooth . the normothermic liver ischemic times of 30 to 122 minutes ( mean , 73 minutes ) were well tolerated . the amount of blood transfused was reduced to a mean of 2 u ( range , 0 to 4 u ) . the occurrence of infected intraabdominal bile collections in two patients with preexisting biliary tract infection suggested that abdominal drainage should be performed in such patients . vascular inflow occlusion is recommended for all liver resections . 
mechanism of surgical stress impairment of human perioperative natural killer cell cytotoxicity . natural killer ( nk ) cells are an important defense against intravascular tumor dissemination . tumor embolization can occur at surgery , so we tested whether surgical stress decreased perioperative nk cell cytotoxicity , and examined the underlying mechanism of suppression . patients with solid tumors underwent nk cell cytotoxicity assay just before and 24 hours after surgery in a 3-hour chromium 51 release assay . the nk cell cytotoxicity was significantly decreased postoperatively . we considered that surgical nk cell impairment might be due to ( 1 ) nk cell redistribution , ( 2 ) presence of suppressor cells , or ( 3 ) direct " toxic " effects on nk cells . impaired nk cell cytotoxicity was not due to nk cell redistribution , because differential counts showed no significant changes in the percentage of large granular lymphocyte nk morphology . to isolate possible suppressor cells , postoperative cells from patients were selectively depleted of nk cells using anti-leu-11b monoclonal antibody plus complement ; these cells were then mixed with autologous preoperative cells . postoperative nk cell cytotoxicity was markedly impaired , but the postoperative nk depleted cells did not suppress preoperative nk cells . we conclude that nk cell functional impairment from surgical stress is due to direct " toxic " effects on nk cells rather than either nk cell redistribution or the generation of nk-directed suppressor cells . 
effect of splenectomy on morbidity and survival following curative gastrectomy for carcinoma . we performed a retrospective analysis of 392 patients who underwent curative resection of gastric adenocarcinoma to evaluate the impact of splenectomy on survival from gastric cancer and postoperative morbidity . twelve factors , including splenectomy , were associated with a poor prognosis by univariate analysis . multivariate analysis identified six of these factors , but not splenectomy , as independently predictive of death due to gastric cancer . the apparent adverse effect of splenectomy was due to its association with other significant risk factors . postoperative complications occurred more commonly in patients who underwent splenectomy than in those who did not ( 45 % vs 21 % ) ; patients in the splenectomy group also had a higher percentage of infectious complications than those in the nonsplenectomy group ( 75 % vs 47 % ) . we conclude that splenectomy has no direct influence on survival , but that it increases the morbidity of curative gastrectomy and should be avoided unless the spleen is close to or invaded by the tumor . 
cytologic diagnosis of aspergillosis in cardiac transplantation . fine-needle aspiration of the lung is now widely utilized to diagnose pulmonary neoplasms , but often serologic techniques or open-lung biopsy is relied on for the diagnosis of infectious pulmonary processes . we report a series of four patients in whom the fine-needle aspiration technique was used to make the rapid cytologic diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis . culture confirmation was also obtained on the aspirated material . a discussion of the available techniques for the laboratory diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis is presented and the advantages of fine-needle aspiration cytology are stressed . our favorable results support expanded use of fine-needle aspiration cytology in the evaluation of lung nodules appearing in immunosuppressed populations . 
endoscopic repair of supraglottic laryngeal clefts . we describe the technique of endoscopic diagnosis and endoscopic surgical repair used in the management of supraglottic interarytenoid laryngeal clefts in 11 children seen between 1981 and 1988 at the hospital for sick children , london , england . six of the children had primary type i clefts that required endoscopic repair . the symptoms included inspiratory stridor , choking during eating , and aspiration . five of the children had previous transcervical repair of type ii clefts that had partial breakdown in the interarytenoid area causing symptoms of aspiration , which required secondary repair endoscopically . all the patients had successful microlaryngoscopic closure ; in two children , however , the breakdown of the repair necessitated repeated endoscopic correction . the only complication occurred in a case of postoperative supraglottitis , which was successfully managed with intubation and antibiotics . we conclude that endoscopic repair is a useful and reliable technique and an elegant alternative to the open transcervical approach for the closure of supraglottic laryngeal clefts . 
radiotherapy . the mainstay in the treatment of early glottic carcinoma . early squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis may be effectively treated with surgery or radiation therapy . controversy exists as to whether radiation therapy effects survival at the expense of vocal function by ultimately requiring more total laryngectomies for salvage of local tumor recurrence . this study reviewed the medical records of 185 patients with t1 or t2 , no invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the glottis treated with primary radiation therapy between 1969 and 1984 . all patients were followed up for a minimum of 5 years after completion of therapy . one hundred sixty-one patients met the criteria for local control analysis . radiation therapy controlled disease in 93 % ( 105 of 113 ) of patients with t1 lesions and 73 % ( 38 of 48 ) of those with t2 tumors . ultimate control of disease for t1 and t2 lesions , including surgical salvage , was 111 ( 98 % ) of 113 and 44 ( 92 % ) of 48 patients , respectively . the rate of successful surgical salvage was 75 % ( t1 ) and 70 % ( t2 ) . the t2 lesions with impaired vocal cord mobility or anterior commissure disease were identified as being at increased risk for recurrence after primary radiation therapy . overall voice preservation was 90 % . our data demonstrate that radiation therapy effects disease-free survival rates that are comparable to those produced by surgery , without sacrificing voice . although a small percentage of patients with selected early glottic lesions may be more effectively treated with primary conservation surgery , these data do not support a change in philosophy concerning primary treatment of early glottic cancer with radiation therapy . 
primary sarcomas of the major salivary glands . sarcomas arising in the major salivary glands are rare . this article presents the clinicopathologic features of 11 patients with primary sarcomas of the parotid gland ( eight men and three women aged 7 to 75 years ; mean age , 42 years ) . the 11 sarcomas were histologically typified as follows : three malignant fibrous histiocytomas and two each of neurosarcomas , rhabdomyosarcomas , fibrosarcomas , and osteosarcomas . four patients experienced disease recurrences , and seven patients developed metastases . seven patients died of their sarcomas , with a mean survival time of 30 months . four patients were alive from 5 to 12 years ( one each with angiomatoid malignant fibrous histiocytoma , embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma , fibrosarcoma , and neurosarcoma ) . prognosis correlated with size of the neoplasm , type of sarcoma , and histologic grade . in this respect , salivary gland sarcomas behaved in identical fashion to their soft-tissue counterparts . 
nasal reconstruction with articulated irradiated rib cartilage . nasal structural reconstruction is a formidable task in cases where there is loss of support to both the nasal dorsum and tip . a multitude of surgical approaches and materials have been used for the correction of the saddle-nose deformity with varying degrees of success . articulated irradiated rib cartilage inserted through an external rhinoplasty approach was used to reconstruct nasal deformities in 18 patients over a 6-year period . simultaneous use of a midline forehead flap to reconstruct the overlying soft tissue was required in four cases . follow-up ranged from 1 to 6 years ( mean , 2.8 years ) . results were rewarding in most cases with marked improvement in nasal support and airway . revision and/or replacement secondary to trauma or warping of the graft was required in four cases . none of the patients exhibited infection , extrusion , or noticeable resorption . a description of the surgical technique , review of all the cases , and recommendation for continued use of this graft material are discussed . 
a randomized control trial of two cervical spatulas the sampling efficacy of the ayre and rocket cervical spatulas was compared in a randomized controlled trial involving 533 women who were attending a colposcopy clinic either for investigation of cytological abnormality or for review after treatment of cin . smears were compared with respect to the presence of cytological abnormality and two types of normal cervical epithelial cells ( endocervical and immature metaplastic cells ) which are considered indicators of adequate cytological sampling . smears taken with the rocket spatula were significantly less likely to contain immature metaplastic cells ( 95 % ci on difference in proportion ; 5-30 % ) , but more likely to contain endocervical cells ( 95 % ci 16-36 % ) . no significant difference was found in the proportion of smears containing one or other type of indicator cell or in the yield of abnormal smears . it is concluded that the rocket spatula offered no advantage when used in these circumstances . this study illustrates how spurious conclusions of sampling efficacy can be drawn if only one type of indicator cell is used as an endpoint . 
coagulation studies in the syndrome of haemolysis , elevated liver enzymes and low platelets . the presence of disseminated intravascular coagulation ( dic ) in the syndrome of haemolysis , elevated liver enzymes and low platelets ( hellp ) is debated . we assessed the occurrence of decompensated and compensated dic ( using predefined criteria ) in 15 consecutive nulliparous pregnant patients with gestational hypertension combined with the hellp syndrome and in 12 consecutive nulliparous controls with pregnancy induced hypertension ( pih ) but without the hellp syndrome . a combination of routine coagulation assays revealed the absence of decompensated dic in all studied patients . however , using more specific and sensitive coagulation assays , compensated dic was observed in all hellp patients and in three patients in the control group . the mean values of antithrombin iii , thrombin-antithrombin iii complexes and protein c in the hellp and the control group were 66 vs 87 % ( p = 0.0004 ) , 21 vs 8 ng/ml ( p = 0.0008 ) and 57 vs 90 % ( p = 0.0018 ) respectively . we conclude that hellp patients show evidence of compensated dic which may have pathophysiological significance for the observed organ damage . 
ratio of immunochemically determined amniotic fluid acetylcholinesterase to butyrylcholinesterase in the differential diagnosis of fetal abnormalities . a total of 111 amniotic fluid samples , clear or blood stained , with elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase was analysed by immunoassays specific for acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and the acetylcholinesterase/butyrylcholinesterase-ratios determined . samples from 40 pregnancies associated with anencephaly , 47 pregnancies associated with open spina bifida or encephalocele and six pregnancies with fetal intrauterine death or miscarriage all had ratios of greater than 0.14 . all 11 pregnancies with fetal ventral wall defects had ratios less than 0.14 as had four pregnancies with normal outcome and elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase . three fetuses with both open spina bifida and ventral wall defects were associated with ratios above 0.14 . these results suggest that immunochemical determination of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase can be used to distinguish pregnancies complicated by anencephaly , open spina bifida , encephalocele and miscarriage from those with ventral wall defects and samples with false positive elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase . the procedure is accurate and simple to carry out and well suited to routine use in a clinical chemistry laboratory . 
babies born before arrival at hospital . objective -- to establish the prevalence of babies born before arrival at two local hospitals . to identify women at risk of giving birth before arrival , and the morbidity and mortality associated with such births . design -- a case control study . each baby born before arrival and its mother were compared with the next born in the hospital ( random control ) , and one matched for gestation and birthweight , together with their mothers . setting -- two maternity units serving east birmingham and solihull . subjects -- all babies ( and their mothers ) born before arrival at these hospitals from january 1983 to december 1987 . main outcome measures -- perinatal mortality rates , patterns of perinatal morbidity , demographic , social and obstetric features of the mothers . results -- 137 ( 0.44 % ) of 31,140 consecutive births were before arrival at hospital ( bba group ) . the perinatal mortality rate in the bba group was 58.4 / 1000 ( 8 deaths ) compared with 10.1 / 1000 for all inborn babies ( relative risk 5.8 , 95 % confidence interval 2.9-11 .4 ) . in the bba group the mean birthweight of 3008 g was 212 g ( 95 % ci 50-374 g ) less than that in the random control group ; the mean gestation of 266 days was 10 days less ( 95 % ci 5.9-14 .1 days ) than in the random control group . hypothermia was the commonest morbidity . women delivered before arrival tended to be either multigravid inner city asians living a long way from the hospital or unmarried unbooked younger white europeans . conclusions -- the high perinatal mortality was related to immaturity and low birthweight , rather than to birth before arrival itself . although groups of mothers at risk of delivery before arrival can be identified more information is needed to establish whether additional antenatal care would be beneficial for these women and their babies . 
spontaneous pneumothorax : marker gas technique for predicting outcome of manual aspiration [ published erratum appears in bmj 1991 mar 23 ; 302 ( 6778 ) :697 ] objective -- to determine whether in a patient with spontaneous pneumothorax the presence or absence of a pleural leak can be shown at the time of manual aspiration by use of a marker gas . also , to find out if the technique can predict whether manual aspiration will be successful , hence avoiding the need for intercostal tube drainage . design -- prospective study of 25 episodes of pneumothorax during which patients breathed air from a douglas bag that contained chlorofluorocarbon gases from a metered dose inhaler while the pneumothorax was aspirated . setting -- medical unit of a district general hospital . patients -- 22 patients who presented over nine months with acute pneumothorax . main outcome measures -- presence or absence of chlorofluorocarbon marker gases in the aspirate . presence or absence of sustained re-expansion of the affected lung in the chest radiograph . results -- marker gas was detected in the aspirate from 16 out of 25 pneumothoraces . of these , 13 required intercostal tube drainage because of failure of the lung to re-expand . marker gas was not detected in nine cases , and in all of these cases manual aspiration resulted in sustained re-expansion of the lung . conclusions -- the presence or absence of a pleural leak during manual aspiration of spontaneous pneumothorax can be shown by using this technique . the absence of marker gas in the aspirate implies that manual aspiration will be successful , whereas its presence predicts , in most cases , either failure of manual aspiration to expand the lung or early re-collapse of the lung . 
changes in haemostasis after stopping the combined contraceptive pill : implications for major surgery . objective -- to investigate the changes in haemostasis in the three months immediately after stopping the combined contraceptive pill . design -- prospective randomised study . setting -- family planning centre in london . subjects -- 24 women aged 35-45 investigated before , during , and after six months ' use of combined oral contraceptives containing 30 micrograms ethinyl oestradiol together with the progestogens desogestrel or gestodene . main outcome measures and results -- blood samples were taken immediately before and after six months of oral contraceptive use and one , two , four , six , eight , and 12 weeks after the pill had been stopped . during the six months of oral contraceptive use the plasma concentration of factor x and fibrinogen increased and that of antithrombin iii decreased . between two and six weeks after stopping the pill a rebound phenomenon occurred with plasma concentrations of antithrombin iii increasing ( mean change from baseline at two weeks 0.06 iu/l and at six weeks 0.10 iu/l ) and fibrinogen decreasing ( 0.26 g/l change at two weeks and 0.40 g/l at six weeks ) . factor x concentrations fell gradually and the values at eight weeks were not significantly different from those found before the combined pill was started . conclusion -- the combined pill should be stopped at least four weeks before major surgery , which carries the risk of postoperative thrombosis , to allow the potentially prothrombotic haemostatic changes that occur during its use to be corrected . 
complications in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty : relationships with patient age . five hundred consecutive attempted lower limb angioplasties for ischaemic disease ( 370 patients , mean age 65.6 years , range 33-91 years ) were reviewed . significant complications occurred in 44 cases ( 8.8 % ) . nine patients ( 1.8 % ) underwent emergency surgery related to a complication . a further 12 patients ( 2.4 % ) underwent elective surgery related to a complication . in addition , four patients died within 30 days of the procedure ; one following surgery performed because of a complication of angioplasty , one following a myocardial infarction , one following severe bleeding associated with subsequent thrombolytic therapy and one during emergency surgery related to a complication of angioplasty . a correlation was found between complication rate and age . this relationship was independent of the approach to , the position of , and the severity of the treated lesion . elderly patients are at increased risk of complication in lower limb angioplasty . 
recurrence of crohn 's disease after resection . recurrent crohn 's disease develops in most patients after surgical resection if the patient is followed for sufficient time . this review examines various aspects of recurrent crohn 's disease . it is concluded that crohn 's disease is a diffuse condition of the gastrointestinal tract and that radical resection of crohn 's disease does not prevent recurrence . assorted factors thought to be associated with recurrence are examined and the relevance of these factors to the surgeon treating crohn 's disease is discussed . 
double-blind randomized trial of perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement for femoropopliteal bypass . patients with rest pain or acute peripheral arterial thrombosis are known to have impaired endogenous fibrinolysis , which is associated with an increased risk of early vascular graft thrombosis . this risk is exacerbated by the fibrinolytic shutdown which is known to occur after major surgery . stanozolol , which has been demonstrated to enhance endogenous fibrinolysis , was therefore used in an attempt to prevent this perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown and so enhance graft patency . twenty-seven patients were randomized to receive either 50 mg stanozolol or placebo intramuscularly 24 h before operation , followed by a 6 week course of either 5 mg stanozolol or placebo orally , twice daily . on the second day after operation , 10-11 mbq of autologous 111indium-labelled platelets were injected , with scanning over the graft on the 3 following days . despite using a large depot of stanozolol , significant effects , such as raised plasminogen ( p less than 0.001 ) , reduced fibrinogen ( p less than 0.001 ) and reduced euglobulin lysis time ( p less than 0.001 ) , were not seen until the seventh day after operation , with maximum benefit at 6 weeks . this was reflected in the 111indium-labelled platelet deposition studies . the placebo group had a progressive increase in platelet deposition on all 3 days . in contrast , those receiving stanozolol showed a lower , static picture of deposition . however , these changes did not attain statistical significance . three patients experienced early graft thrombosis , two in the placebo group and one in the stanozolol group . only an incomplete inhibition of the perioperative fibrinolytic shutdown was achieved . much longer preoperative courses are thus required to allow the maximum effect to be present at the most crucial time . at present , perioperative fibrinolytic enhancement does not appear to be a practical proposition , and we must await the development of new safer and more potent agents . 
role of phenytoin in healing of large abscess cavities . the promotion of healing of large abscess cavities attained with topical phenytoin was evaluated in controlled studies of clinical and experimental wounds . in the clinical abscess cavities , phenytoin application in 20 patients compared with conventional treatment in 20 patients resulted in earlier separation of slough , decrease in oedema , control of pain and overall enhanced healing . the mean ( s.d. ) rate of reduction of wound area was 2.02 ( 0.48 ) cm2/day in the phenytoin group versus 1.58 ( 0.51 ) cm2/day in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) on day 10 , and 1.8 ( 0.32 ) cm2/day versus 1.19 ( 0.21 ) cm2/day ( p less than 0.01 ) on day 20 . the mean volume reduction rates at both the 10th and 20th day were 0.48 ( 0.01 ) cm3/day for phenytoin versus 0.32 ( 0.04 ) cm3/day for controls ; ( p less than 0.005 ) . by day 20 , 17 of the patients treated with phenytoin were rated as having healed completely , compared with only one of the controls . in a standardized guinea-pig model of the clinical abscess cavity , which included inoculation of the wound with bacillus proteus and klebsiella pneumoniae , an enhanced healing rate was also observed ( at 7 days 0.40 ( 0.05 ) cm2/day with phenytoin versus 0.21 ( 0.08 ) cm2/day in controls ; p less than 0.005 ) . all eight of the animals treated with phenytoin healed by day 21 , compared with one of the eight controls . biopsies of wounds treated with phenytoin showed less inflammation , no necrosis , and enhanced neovascularization , collagen deposition and fibroblast proliferation compared to controls . bacterial colonies also decreased more rapidly with the use of phenytoin . 
importance of the omentum in the development of intra-abdominal metastases . areas of trauma are preferred sites for metastatic tumour growth . in extensive intra-abdominal tumour recurrence the omentum is invariably involved . the importance of the omentum in the development of tumours at sites of intra-abdominal trauma has been investigated . colonic anastomoses were performed in hooded-lister rats with and without omentectomy . animals received intraluminal or intraperitoneal injections of a syngeneic tumour . with intraluminal injection , tumour occurred at the anastomosis and in the omentum in 38 and 43 per cent of animals respectively but following omentectomy the values were 14 and 9 per cent ( omental remnant ) . with intraperitoneal administration tumour occurred in 53 per cent at the anastomosis and in 79 per cent in the omentum compared with 16 and 29 per cent ( in omental remnant ) following omentectomy . in this model a reduced ability of an anastomosis to support ' seeded ' tumour following removal of the omentum is demonstrated and the development of local recurrence from spilled tumour cells during operation may be enhanced by , or be dependent on , the proximity of the omentum . 
proximal gastric vagotomy : follow-up at 10-20 years . from august 1969 to december 1989 , 600 patients had elective proximal gastric vagotomy for duodenal ulceration with an operative mortality of 0.2 per cent . of these , 372 patients had surgery over 10 years ago . three hundred and forty-two patients survived for more than 10 years and , in a prospective study , 305 were reviewed , forming the basis of this 10-20-year follow-up report . forty-six ( 15 per cent ) have had recurrent ulceration ; 80 per cent of these developed symptoms within 5 years and no patient has had recurrence after 13 years . although 29 patients required reoperation for recurrent ulceration , the current patient satisfaction rate for visick grades i and ii is 92 per cent . only two patients required reoperation because of gastric stasis . it is concluded that proximal gastric vagotomy is a safe and satisfactory first choice operation for duodenal ulceration . 
peptic ulcer surgery during the h2-receptor antagonist era : a population-based epidemiological study of ulcer surgery in helsinki from 1972 to 1987 . to evaluate the effects of improvements in medical therapy on the incidence of , indications for and operative methods used in peptic ulcer surgery , all cases of primary peptic ulcer surgery among adults in the city of helsinki in the years 1972 , 1977 , 1982 and 1987 were analysed . there was a total of 565 such cases in a population which consisted of 5.2 x 10 ( 5 ) individuals in 1972 and 4.8 x 10 ( 5 ) individuals in 1987 . the introduction of h2-receptor antagonists in 1979 was associated with a fall in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer operations , from 15.5 to 6.7 per 10 ( 5 ) individuals , and a fall in the annual incidence of elective gastric ulcer operations , from 9.4 to 3.1 per 10 ( 5 ) individuals ( p less than 0.05 ) . the decrease was greatest among males with duodenal ulcer . in contrast , the annual incidence of emergency surgery for ulcer haemorrhage and perforation ( all types of ulcers ) remained relatively stable , varying from 7.2 to 10.2 per 10 ( 5 ) inhabitants over the observation period ( n.s. ) . the mean age of patients undergoing elective surgery remained essentially unchanged . the mean age of patients undergoing emergency surgery increased . the decrease in the annual incidence of elective duodenal ulcer surgery occurred mainly in relation to proximal gastric vagotomy . there was a concomitant relative increase in the incidence of gastric resection . the types of operative procedures used in cases of pyloric , prepyloric and gastric ulcer remained unchanged over the years 1972 to 1987 . 
evaluation of the results of oesophagectomy for oesophageal cancer . the long-term results of standard techniques of oesophagectomy were examined in 127 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus . a near-total oesophagectomy with a cervical anastomosis was performed in 93 patients and an oesophagogastrectomy with an intrathoracic anastomosis was carried out in 34 patients . one hundred and eight patients had a curative oesophagectomy and 19 patients had a palliative resection . eight patients received radiotherapy to the tumour bed . there were 15 deaths in hospital and the overall 5-year survival rate including perioperative deaths was 13.2 per cent . survival was adversely affected by incomplete excision of macroscopic tumour ( p less than 0.001 ) , positive regional lymph nodes ( p less than 0.05 ) and distant lymphatic metastases ( p less than 0.02 ) . the 5-year survival rate of patients with tumour invasion beyond the oesophageal wall ( t3 ) and negative nodes was 20 per cent . postoperative irradiation had no effect on the survival of patients with gross residual tumour . complete clearance of microscopic tumour was achieved in 50 per cent of patients with t3 tumours and this group did not benefit from adjuvant radiotherapy . survival in patients undergoing curative oesophagectomy with residual microscopic tumour , however , was significantly improved by irradiation of the tumour bed ( p less than 0.01 ) . these results suggest that the survival of patients can be increased significantly by the excision of all gross tumour and by identification of those who will benefit from local radiotherapy . 
prolonged intermittent clamping of the portal triad during hepatectomy . from 112 consecutive hepatectomies for malignant tumours performed with intermittent portal triad clamping , we have retrospectively selected the 20 cases in which clamping exceeded 90 min . intermittent portal clamping of prolonged duration was used because of abnormal liver texture in 13 cases ( mainly patients who had received intra-arterial chemotherapy ) and/or because of technically difficult hepatectomy . the mean ( s.d. ) duration of intermittent portal clamping was 109 ( 18 ) min and in two cases it exceeded 140 min ( 148 and 150 min ) . there was no postoperative mortality and the rate of postoperative morbidity was 35 per cent . postoperative changes in biochemical liver tests were not major and transient hepatic failure occurred in only one patient following subtotal resection of the liver . we conclude that intermittent portal clamping is a useful manoeuvre in partial hepatectomy when resection is difficult or prolonged , or when the liver parenchyma is abnormal . such clamping may be used for longer than 120 min without major complications . 
effect of fibrin sealant on the healing colonic anastomosis in the rat . fibrin adhesives have been advocated as a protective seal in colonic anastomosis to prevent leakage . in order to assess the effect of fibrin glue sealing we compared the healing of sutured colonic anastomosis in the rat ( group 1 ) with the addition of human-derived fibrin sealant ( group 2 ) . as a control for a possible reaction to foreign protein , in group 3 the sutured anastomosis was sealed with specially prepared rat fibrin adhesive . on days 2 , 4 and 7 , ten animals in each group were killed . adhesion formation was scored and the in situ bursting pressure was measured . the collagen concentration and degradation were estimated by measuring hydroxyproline . adhesion formation was significantly increased in groups 2 and 3 compared with the control group . on days 2 and 7 the bursting pressure was not different between the groups . on day 4 the bursting pressure in groups 2 and 3 was significantly lower than in group 1 ( p less than 0.001 ) . these findings correspond with the results of collagen measurements . on day 4 the concentration of hydroxyproline was significantly reduced in groups 2 and 3 . histological examination showed infiltration of neutrophilic granulocytes into the sealant on days 2 and 4 ; on day 7 the sealant had vanished . from these results it is concluded that fibrin sealing of the colonic anastomosis in the rat does not improve healing , as demonstrated by bursting pressure and hydroxyproline concentration . on the contrary , it seems to have a negative influence . 
infrarenal abdominal aortic disease : a review of the retroperitoneal approach . transabdominal exposure is the most widely used surgical approach to the infrarenal aorta . over the last 30 years a number of surgeons have championed the retroperitoneal approach for repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms and aortoiliac occlusive disease using a variety of incisions . several studies attest to the clinical superiority of this approach over the transabdominal route and recent evidence demonstrates reduced physiological disturbance with this technique . the retroperitoneal approach is suitable for all elective operations on the abdominal aorta , particularly in patients with high-risk aneurysms and in selected patients with symptomatic and ruptured aneurysms . 
proliferation characteristics of human colorectal carcinomas measured in vivo . the cell proliferation kinetics of 100 human colonic and rectal adenocarcinomas have been studied in vivo by bromodeoxyuridine infusion and multiparameter flow cytometry . a total of 97 patients , three with synchronous tumours , consented to receive a single bolus dose of 250 mg between 2.4 and 16 h before curative or palliative surgery . by this method , the ploidy pattern , the total and aneuploid labelling indices ( li ) , the s phase duration ( ts ) and the potential doubling time ( tpot ) can be estimated . of the tumours 48 were diploid and 52 were aneuploid . the mean and median total li of 100 tumours were 9.0 per cent ( range 0.7-22 .2 per cent ) . the mean aneuploid li was 12.1 per cent ( median 12.0 per cent , range 2.0-25 .5 per cent ) , and was significantly higher than the total li ( p = 0.01 ) . the labelling index alone is not a sufficient indicator of proliferation , because the ts also varies within and between tumours . the intertumour range of the ts varied from 4.0 to 28.6 h. the mean was 14.1 h and the median was 13.1 h. the mean tpot was 5.9 days ( median 3.9 days ) with a range of 1.7-21 .4 days . no correlation was found between any kinetic parameters and the dukes ' classification or histological classification . the correlation between proliferation and prognosis will be established in due course . 
correlation between laboratory findings and clinical outcome after restorative proctocolectomy : serial studies in 20 patients with end-to-end pouch-anal anastomosis . clinical function and anorectal physiological function were assessed and correlated in 20 patients with ulcerative colitis before restorative proctocolectomy and 3 , 7 , and 12 months after operation . the entire anal sphincter was preserved by means of a stapled pouch-anal anastomosis . before operation , the median resting anal pressure was 79 cmh2o ( interquartile range 70-89 cmh2o ) , the rectoanal inhibitory reflex was present in all patients and anorectal ' sampling ' was noted in 16 of 20 patients . three months after operation , resting anal pressure was 68 cmh2o ( range 50-87 cmh2o ) ( p less than 0.001 ) , the reflex was present in only three patients ( p less than 0.001 ) and sampling was observed in one patient . after 7 months , resting anal pressure was 76 cmh2o ( range 64-89 cmh2o ) , the reflex was present in 11 patients and sampling was observed in nine patients . at 12 months , resting anal pressure was 84 cmh2o ( range 66-94 cmh2o ) , the reflex was present in 19 patients and sampling was observed in 17 patients . the compliance and capacity of the reservoir increased significantly . ability to discriminate flatus from faeces was associated with return of the rectoanal reflex and sampling . 
stools containing altered blood-plasma urea : creatinine ratio as a simple test for the source of bleeding . the plasma urea : creatinine ratio ( u : c ratio ) is known to be elevated in cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding . almost all patients with haematemesis have upper gastrointestinal ( or generalized ) bleeding so that in this study we characterized the diagnostic power of the u : c ratio in patients with stools containing altered blood without haematemesis in the hope that this simple laboratory test ( used in conjunction , perhaps , with clinical data ) might reduce the number of patients subjected to an unrewarding gastroscopy or colonoscopy . of 76 cases seen in a provincial and a metropolitan hospital , 42 and 34 patients had upper and lower gastrointestinal bleeding , respectively . fifty-four per cent of those with upper gastrointestinal bleeding and none of those with lower gastrointestinal bleeding had u : c ratios above 110 on admission . however , a discriminating level of 90 is considered to be more suitable , judged by the quadratic uncertainty score . at this level the odds for upper gastrointestinal bleeding were 15:1 . 
role of the protease-antiprotease balance in peritoneal exudate during acute pancreatitis . the peritoneal exudate formed during experimental pancreatitis is toxic when administered intraperitoneally or intravenously to other animals . overwhelming of the peritoneal antiprotease defences by proteolytic enzymes released from the pancreas may be a key factor responsible for this toxicity and is examined in the current study . human pancreatitis exudates possessed tryptic amidase activity indicating trypsinogen activation . the trypsin inhibitory capacities of exudates were reduced indicating a degree of consumption of the peritoneal antiproteases . of 21 exudates examined , three showed marked reduction of their trypsin inhibitory capacity indicating almost complete consumption of their antiproteases . all three patients were shocked at the time of sampling , two dying of fulminant pancreatitis within 24 h. overwhelming of the peritoneal antiproteases was not confirmed , but may occur in a few instances where proteolytic enzyme release or zymogen activation continues . intraperitoneal administration of exogenous antiproteases prolongs survival in rats with pancreatitis and has been suggested as a therapy in man . the current data suggests that few patients are likely to benefit from such an approach . 
neonatal small bowel atresia , stenosis and segmental dilatation . in 8 years , 44 neonates were treated for small bowel atresia , stenosis or segmental dilatation by one surgical team . there was a single lesion in 30 infants and 14 had two or more sites of intestinal obstruction . associated gastrointestinal abnormalities were found in 23 ( 52 per cent ) patients . resection of the atresia ( s ) and primary anastomosis were performed in 34 infants and staged procedures were carried out in ten patients with complicated lesions . patients undergoing staged procedures had a higher complication rate than those having primary repair ( six out of ten and 11 out of 34 respectively ) . the overall initial survival rate was 93 per cent , rising to 100 per cent in those without associated anomalies or prenatal complications , but more than a quarter ( 27 per cent ) of survivors have long-term disabilities . 
dna aneuploidy in follicular thyroid neoplasia . the potential value of dna aneuploidy , in distinguishing benign from malignant follicular thyroid neoplasms , was studied . the nuclear dna content of 65 follicular thyroid neoplasms ( 52 adenomas and 13 carcinomas ) was determined by flow cytometric analysis of paraffin embedded material ; in 58 cases preparations were technically satisfactory . in 22 follicular neoplasms dna analysis was also performed on fresh material obtained by fine needle aspiration of surgical specimens . cell cycle analysis was performed on both fresh and fixed specimens . an aneuploid dna profile was found on analysis of fixed tissue in eight of 45 ( 18 per cent ) follicular adenomas and four of 13 ( 31 per cent ) follicular carcinomas . dna aneuploidy was also found in six of the 22 ( 27 per cent ) fresh preparations from follicular adenomas . the frequency of dna aneuploidy in apparently benign and malignant follicular neoplasms was similar . follicular thyroid neoplasia are best regarded as a single entity with a low incidence of local and distant spread . all follicular neoplasia are therefore best excised . 
further evaluation of radical surgery following radiotherapy for advanced parotid carcinoma . a series of 30 patients who have been treated for advanced carcinoma of the parotid gland using radiotherapy followed by radical surgery is presented . three patients deteriorated during preoperative radiotherapy and remained unfit for surgery ; the remaining 27 underwent radical parotidectomy with block dissection of the neck . twelve patients received additional radiotherapy after operation . of those patients undergoing surgery , three have been lost to follow-up , 17 have died and seven remain alive ; the period of follow-up ranges from 3 to 133 months . fourteen patients remained free of recurrent disease at death or when last seen , and six patients developed a local recurrence at a medium period of 10.5 ( range 3-36 ) months after surgery . for all 30 patients , the cumulative proportion surviving for 5 years was 30 per cent . 
frontal dysfunction and memory deficits in the alcoholic korsakoff syndrome and alzheimer-type dementia . this study investigated the intercorrelation of 8 ' frontal ' tests in 32 patients with korsakoff 's syndrome and alzheimer 's disease , and examined the relationship of frontal dysfunction to impaired release from proactive interference and impoverished retrieval from retrograde memory . amongst the frontal tests , there were statistically significant intercorrelations between 3 ' fluency ' tests and 3 ' card-sorting ' tests , although the degree of shared variance was relatively low . the relationship of another test -- picture arrangement errors -- was more equivocal ; performance for ' cognitive estimates ' was unrelated to performance in the other frontal tests , possibly because it may reflect pathology at a different frontal site . there was no evidence in this study that variability in release from proactive interference was related to measures of frontal function in either patient group , and the conditions under which these patient groups fail to show ' normal ' release appear to be tightly constrained . on the other hand , the defective retrieval of retrograde memories was correlated with frontal dysfunction in both patient groups . there was a suggestion of a double dissociation with a measure of nonverbal short-term forgetting , impairment at which was related to the degree of general cortical atrophy rather than frontal dysfunction . a stepwise regression equation based on 3 frontal tests could account for 64 % of the variability in retrograde memory performance within the total patient group , 68.5 % in the korsakoff group and 57 % in the alzheimer group . by comparison , the severity of anterograde memory impairment predicted only 21 % of the variance in retrograde memory performance . it is concluded that frontal dysfunction produces a disorganization of retrieval processes which contributes to the temporally-extensive retrograde amnesia of these two disorders . 
intrathecal immunoglobulin m synthesis in multiple sclerosis . relationship with clinical and cerebrospinal fluid parameters . intrathecal igm synthesis was assessed through the detection of oligoclonal bands in cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) and through calculation of igm index values and total csf igm amounts . intrathecal production of igm was then evaluated along with other csf parameters and clinical variables in 150 patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) . intrathecal production of igm was detected in 55 % of patients and was found to correlate with disease activity , manifesting as a recent relapse , as well as the total number of relapses . an inverse correlation was found between csf oligoclonal igm and both the time interval between the last relapse and lumbar puncture , and duration of the disease process . it also correlated with the number of leucocytes , free kappa and lambda light chain bands in csf . no correlation was found between intrathecal igm synthesis and degree of disability ( kurtzke scale ) , disease progression index ( poser scale ) , or total cerebral plaque burden ( detected by enhanced ct and mri scans ) . oligoclonal igm bands were found to be more specific for active disease process than either igm index or total csf igm amount . it is concluded that intrathecal synthesis of igm , as detected by csf oligoclonal bands , is a useful parameter in monitoring disease relapse activity in ms. 
axial myoclonus of propriospinal origin . three patients are described with nonrhythmic repetitive axial myoclonic jerks causing symmetric flexion of the neck , trunk , hips and knees . no electrophysiological evidence of a cortical or brainstem reticular origin for the myoclonus was found . in the first patient the axial jerks only occurred spontaneously . the latencies of recruitment of spinal segments during a jerk indicated that the discharge arose in the mid thoracic cord and then slowly spread at about 5 ms-1 up and down the cord to involve rostral and caudal segments . no structural lesion was identified in this patient . in the second patient spontaneous and reflex axial jerks developed following the excision of a cervical haemangioblastoma . in the stimulus-induced jerks the relative latencies of muscles innervated by rostral and caudal spinal segments suggested that the myoclonus originated between the upper cervical and midthoracic cord . in the final patient , emg activity during spontaneous and stimulus-induced jerks commenced in the rectus abdominis , and was followed by later activity in muscles innervated by rostral spinal segments , suggesting that the myoclonus originated in the midthoracic cord . no structural lesion was identified in this patient . electrophysiological evidence is used to argue a spinal origin for these axial jerks in all 3 cases . there are striking features common both to this form of human myoclonus and to long propriospinal pathways identified in animals . the new concept of propriospinal myoclonus is suggested . 
the mechanism of spastic muscle hypertonus . variation in reflex gain over the time course of spasticity . the electromyographic ( emg ) response of the initially passive biceps brachii muscle to imposed extension applied at the elbow was studied in 19 hemiparetic and 12 normal subjects . in relaxed normal subjects , the biceps muscle was found to respond only at displacement velocities above 175 deg/s , with a single early burst of activity in the biceps emg . in contrast , the hemiparetic subjects , in addition to the early emg activity , also showed considerable late activity , which persisted even with stretch velocities as low as 35 deg/s . this late activity is a stretch reflex , present in fully plegic arms . it was seen in all spastic subjects in whom the tone of the biceps had been clinically assessed to be raised , but was never observed in subjects with normal muscle tone . the mean level of this emg response was highly correlated with displacement velocity and its duration to the duration of the applied displacement . it is suggested that this reflex emg activity is the major factor in the genesis of spastic hypertonus in the arm and that it arises not from a reduction in the threshold of the stretch reflexes of the muscle , but from a pathological increase in stretch reflex gain . it is further shown that this activity is at a high level between the first and third months after the onset of spasticity and that the reflex gain is significantly reduced when spasticity is established for a year or more . it is concluded that , while changes in passive mechanical properties may play a role when spasticity has been established for more than a year , the major cause of spastic muscle hypertonus is a pathological increase in stretch reflex activity . 
reversed lateralization of cognitive functions in right handers . exceptions to classical aphasiology . most current and past research on the cerebral organization of cognitive functions has presupposed certain specialized hemisphere operations . at least for right handers , language and praxis are to be organized in the left hemisphere , while affective prosody , configurational spatial capacity , and global attention are lateralized in the right hemisphere . deviations from these presuppositions , as in crossed aphasics and perhaps left handers , are generally considered to be ' exceptions ' and either to disprove the rules or to be irrelevant to the rule . we report 4 very ' exceptional ' cases , right handers with almost entirely reversed lateralization of functions . analysis of the intrahemispheric relationships between functions suggests that there may be a specific neurobiology to the interrelationships between and among cognitive functions , handedness , and the intrahemisphere localization of the function . 
memory-contingent saccades and the substantia nigra postulate for essential blepharospasm . essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia are related focal dystonias of unknown aetiology . blepharospasm induced by acute dopamine depletion in parkinsonism restricts saccade initiation possibly via the substantia nigra pars reticulata ( snpr ) . if essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia similarly restrict saccades , then a selective , somatotopically arranged pathway such as the snpr may be involved . to test this possibility memory-contingent and visually-guided saccades were measured in patients with essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia . the latency of both forms of saccades was either significantly prolonged or excessively variable , while the accuracy and peak velocity of these fast eye movements were similar to age-matched control subjects . essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia alter the initiation of saccadic eye movements . subcortical brain regions or pathways where eyelid , saccade and cranial/cervical motor control are somatotopically approximated , such as the snpr , may be involved in blepharospasm . 
the stroke syndrome of striatocapsular infarction . striatocapsular infarction has recently been described as a distinct stroke entity and forms an important subgroup of subcortical infarctions . in a prospective study of 50 consecutive patients over a 10 yr period with this syndrome , clinical and neuropsychological features , pathogenesis and outcome were studied to provide information concerning management and prognosis . the most common clinical presentation was that of a stroke affecting mainly the upper limb with cortical signs such as dysphasia , neglect or dyspraxia . evidence from eeg , angiographic and neuropsychological data supported a vascular/haemodynamic basis for the presence of the acute neuropsychological changes , while the chronic changes were more likely to be due to diaschisis . a study of risk factors and cerebral angiography enabled 4 pathophysiological subgroups to be identified : ( 1 ) cardiac emboli to the origin of the middle cerebral artery ; ( 2 ) severe extra-cranial cranial carotid artery occlusive disease with presumed embolism to the same site and/or involvement of haemodynamic factors ; ( 3 ) proximal middle cerebral artery abnormalities causing occlusion of multiple lateral striate arteries at their origins ; ( 4 ) normal angiography where pathogenesis was uncertain . the risk factors of cardiac disease and smoking were significantly increased as compared with age and sex-matched controls with other forms of ischaemic stroke . stroke or vascular death rate was 2.7 % per yr during a mean follow-up period of 2.25 yrs . predictors of an excellent recovery with return to normal lifestyle were younger age , only brachial or brachiofacial weakness with absence of cortical signs at presentation and minimal change on angiography . this stroke entity deserves particular recognition in the spectrum of subcortical infarctions because of its specific pathogenesis , distinct neuropsychological features and reasonable prognosis . 
clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea . objective : to review the clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea ( osa ) . data source and selection : all articles on osa published in french and english between 1970 and 1990 and indexed in index medicus were reviewed . studies addressing the epidemiologic features and clinical aspects of osa were selected , and special emphasis was given to articles reporting the effects of treatment on morbidity and mortality rates . main results : osa is characterized by episodes of upper airway obstruction during sleep that result in repetitive hypoxemia and sleep disruption . osa leads to various neuropsychologic and cardiovascular complications , including daytime hypersomnolence , cognitive impairment , systemic and pulmonary hypertension and cardiac arrhythmias . there is suggestive evidence that the death rate among affected people is increased . the true incidence of osa is unknown , but estimates have varied from 1 % upwards among men . the current treatment with the greatest overall effectiveness and acceptability is nasal continuous positive airway pressure . conclusion : this common , readily treatable disorder is associated with serious complications and therefore must be widely recognized by health professionals . 
diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea . the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea is frequently made by taking a meticulous history coupled with a high index of suspicion . snoring and hypersomnolence are clinical features common to individuals with sleep apnea . since snoring is said to be a " disease of listeners , " it is not uncommon that bed partners reported an increased incidence of depression and marital displeasure . it is for this reason that the spouse or bed partner should be interviewed , since the patient may not be aware of any sleeping problems . physicians should also be alert to complaints of excessive daytime somnolence , because studies have shown that patients with obstructive sleep apnea are at increased risk for automobile crashes . it has been estimated that approx 58,000 motor vehicle accidents involving people with sleep apnea will occur in the us each yr . by proper diagnosis and treatment , the physician is in a unique position to prevent at least some of the automobile accidents that result from falling asleep while driving . polysomnography is the only definitive way to obtain a diagnosis of sleep apnea . this allows the physician not only to diagnosis the disorder , but also helps in the evaluation of the severity of the syndrome and selection of therapy . an ent evaluation is also important in ruling out anatomic disorders that can cause upper airway obstruction . certain factors , such as alcohol and sedative ingestion , may aggravate the condition in a person predisposed to sleep apnea , and subtle changes , such as unexplained hypertension , polycythemia , and cor pulmonale , should lead one to investigate the possibility of sleep apnea as the etiology . 
what is the best predictor of spontaneous ventricular tachycardia and sudden death after myocardial infarction ? background . death during the first year after myocardial infarction is most commonly due to spontaneous ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) or fibrillation ( vf ) . the purpose of this study was to compare , in a single cohort of patients , the values of inducible vt , delayed ventricular activation , low left ventricular ejection fraction , high-grade ventricular ectopy , and st segment displacement on exercise in predicting electrical events ( witnessed instantaneous death and spontaneous vt or vf ) during the first year after myocardial infarction . methods and results . three hundred sixty one patients aged less than 71 years underwent electrophysiological study , signal-averaged electrocardiogram , gated blood-pool scan , 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring , and exercise testing 1-2 weeks after myocardial infarction and were then followed up for at least 1 year . there were 34 deaths ( eight witnessed instantaneous , 26 other ) , and nine patients survived one or more episodes of spontaneous vf or vt . patients with inducible vt were 15.2 times more likely to suffer electrical events than patients without inducible vt . no proportional-hazards model excluding inducible vt was as good a predictor of electrical events as was inducible vt alone . conclusions . inducible vt at electrophysiological study was the single best predictor of spontaneous vt and sudden death after myocardial infarction . 
prospective comparison of a conventional and an accelerated protocol for programmed ventricular stimulation in patients with coronary artery disease . background . this study compared the sensitivity , specificity , and efficiency of a " conventional " and " accelerated " programmed stimulation protocol in 293 patients with coronary artery disease who had a history of sustained or nonsustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) . methods and results . in the conventional protocol , one and two extrastimuli were introduced during sinus rhythm and during basic drive trains at cycle lengths of 600 and 400 msec at the right ventricular apex and then at the outflow tract or septum . in the accelerated protocol , one , two , and then three extrastimuli were introduced at each of three basic drive train cycle lengths ( 350 , 400 , and 600 msec ) at the right ventricular apex ; the procedure was repeated at a second right ventricular site . six hundred thirty-four electrophysiological tests were performed using one of these two protocols either in the baseline state ( 293 tests ) or during drug testing ( 341 tests ) . the yield of sustained , monomorphic vt was 89 % with the conventional protocol and 92 % with the accelerated protocol during baseline tests in patients who had a history of sustained vt ( p = 0.05 ) ; 20 % and 34 % , respectively , during baseline tests in patients with a history of nonsustained vt ( p = 0.06 ) ; and 70 % and 77 % , respectively , during drug testing ( p = 0.2 ) . to induce sustained , monomorphic vt , 10.1 + / - 5.0 ( mean + / - sd ) protocol steps and 14.4 + / - 8.7 minutes were required with the conventional protocol , compared with 4.0 + / - 3.7 steps and 5.6 + / - 6.1 minutes with the accelerated protocol ( p less than 0.001 for each comparison ) . among the tests in which sustained , monomorphic vt was induced , sustained polymorphic vt or ventricular fibrillation was induced more often with the conventional protocol ( 3.6 % ) than with the accelerated protocol ( 0.9 % , p = 0.05 ) . conclusions . the efficiency of programmed stimulation can be improved by the early use of a basic drive train cycle length of 350 msec and three extrastimuli . compared with a conventional stimulation protocol , the accelerated protocol used in this study reduces the number of protocol steps and duration of time required to induce monomorphic vt by an average of more than 50 % and improves the specificity of programmed stimulation without impairing the yield of monomorphic vt . 
results and follow-up after percutaneous pulsed laser-assisted balloon angioplasty guided by spectroscopy background . few data are available on the long-term outcome of patients who undergo laser-assisted balloon angioplasty for recanalization of occluded peripheral arteries . because the cost of laser angioplasty is high , the value of the method should be carefully analyzed before it can be considered a routine method for recanalization . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the early and late results of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in patients who could not be recanalized by conventional techniques . methods and results . laser angioplasty was performed in 66 patients with total occlusion of the iliofemoral artery in whom mechanical techniques failed to recanalize the obstructed vessel . the system consisted of a pulsed dye laser operated at 480 nm , 2 microseconds/pulse , 5 hz , 50 mj/pulse coupled into a 0.021-in . laser catheter . the treatment laser was connected with a diagnostic laser to induce tissue fluorescence for spectroscopic analysis via the same fiber . the treatment laser was emitted only when atheromatous tissue was recognized . after a pilot hole was created by laser emission , dilatation was performed to enlarge the channel . the mean length of occlusion was 8.8 + / - 6.1 cm . the primary success rate was 82 % . it did not depend on the length of occlusion but was greater in non-calcified than in calcified lesions ( 88 % versus 71 % , p less than 0.03 ) . complications included seven early reocclusions that could be recanalized and eight perforations without clinical sequelae . at a mean 18-month follow-up , 64 % of the laser-treated arteries remained patent . the rate of patency was related neither to the length of the occlusion nor to calcifications but was lower in patients who had early reocclusion ( p less than 0.02 ) . conclusions . pulsed dye laser-assisted balloon angioplasty is effective for recanalization of totally occluded arteries that can not be treated by conventional means . the efficacy is limited by calcifications . the long-term patency rate is acceptable given the severity of the lesions . 
left ventricular passive diastolic properties in chronic mitral regurgitation . background . in chronic mitral regurgitation , the myocardium responds to the increased filling volume by geometric alteration and eccentric hypertrophy . this study was designed to evaluate the effects of a pure volume overload on left ventricular diastolic chamber and myocardial properties and to assess the relation of passive diastolic function to systolic ejection performance . methods and results . by use of simultaneous cineangiography and left ventricular micromanometry , left ventricular passive diastolic stiffness was evaluated in nine normal controls ( group 1 ) , 14 patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and a normal ejection fraction ( greater than or equal to 57 % , group 2 ) , and 13 patients with mitral regurgitation and a reduced ejection fraction ( less than 57 % , group 3 ) . passive diastolic function was evaluated by using a three-constant elastic model . left ventricular chamber properties were represented by the relation of pressure to volume ; myocardial properties were evaluated by relating myocardial midwall stress to midwall strain . the constant of left ventricular chamber stiffness was decreased in group 2 compared with controls ( p less than 0.05 ) but it was normal in group 3 . the constant of myocardial stiffness was increased in group 3 compared with groups 1 and 2 ( p less than 0.01 ) . among patients with mitral regurgitation , there was a significant inverse relation between ejection fraction and the constant of myocardial stiffness ( r = -0.83 ) . conclusions . the chronic adaptation to volume overload in chronic mitral regurgitation tends to decrease left ventricular chamber stiffness . patients with mitral regurgitation and a depressed ejection fraction demonstrated diastolic myocardial dysfunction . compromised diastolic function in patients with chronic mitral regurgitation and reduced systolic performance may contribute to the clinical manifestations of congestive heart failure . 
acute coronary artery occlusion during and after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . frequency , prediction , clinical course , management , and follow-up [ published erratum appears in circulation 1991 jul ; 84 ( 1 ) :446 ] background . acute coronary artery occlusion after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) continues to remain a serious complication despite significant improvement in operator performance and technological advancements . this retrospective study was performed to ascertain the frequency , predictive variables , management , and outcome of acute coronary artery occlusion . methods and results . the study was based on data from 1,423 consecutive patients who underwent an elective coronary angioplasty between january 1986 and december 1988 . acute coronary artery occlusion occurred in 104 patients ( 7.3 % ) . acute occlusion developed during the dilatation procedure in 80 patients ( 5.6 % ) and within 24 hours after the procedure in 24 patients ( 1.7 % ) . four clinical and 14 angiographic variables predictive for acute coronary artery occlusion were analyzed in these 104 patients with a complicated procedure and were compared with those in 104 representative patients with successful attempts . multivariate analysis found three independent predictive variables : unstable angina , multivessel disease , and complex lesions . the overall clinical outcome after management of acute coronary artery occlusion including immediate repeat dilatation ( 95 patients ) , use of intracoronary streptokinase ( 34 patients ) , or autoperfusion catheter ( 12 patients ) was successful ( reduction of lumen diameter to less than 50 % , no death , no myocardial infarction [ mi ] , and no emergency surgery ) in 42 patients ( 40 % ) , was a failure without major complication in four patients ( 4 % ) , and was a failure with major complication ( death , mi , and emergency surgery ) in 58 patients ( 56 % ) . the overall mortality rate was 6 % ( six patients ) , the overall mi rate was 36 % ( 37 patients ) , and emergency bypass surgery was required in 30 % of patients ( 31 patients ) . at 6 months ' follow-up of 42 patients with successful management , recurrent angina pectoris due to restenosis occurred in 10 patients ( 24 % ) , and a late mi occurred in one patient ( 3 % ) . at 6 months ' follow-up of 56 survivors with unsuccessful management ( development of mi or need for emergency bypass surgery ) , recurrent angina occurred in nine patients ( 16 % ) , and cardiac death in two patients ( 4 % ) . however , the majority of patients in both groups were either symptom free or had mild angina pectoris . conclusion . acute coronary artery occlusion during ptca is often unpredictable , but its frequency is higher in patients with unstable angina , multivessel disease , and complex lesions . despite immediate redilatation , use of intracoronary streptokinase , and emergency bypass surgery , ptca is associated with a high mortality and morbidity . 
baroreflex sensitivity and electrophysiological correlates in patients after acute myocardial infarction . background . several studies have identified transient disturbances of autonomic function during the acute and recovery phases of myocardial infarction , and it has recently been suggested that survivors of acute myocardial infarction with depressed vagal tone may be at increased risk of sudden or arrhythmic death . methods and results . to investigate this hypothesis , parasympathetic function was assessed by arterial baroreflex sensitivity ( brs ) testing ( using the phenylephrine method ) and by heart rate variability ( hrv ) analysis from 24-hour holter recording in 68 patients at day 7-10 after infarction . the relation between autonomic tone and markers of arrhythmic propensity , including programmed ventricular stimulation ( pvs ) and late potentials in addition to other clinical variables , was examined . brs for the whole group was 7.0 + / - 4.7 msec/mm hg and was inversely correlated with age ( r = 0.53 , p less than 0.001 ) but not with left ventricular ejection fraction ( r = 0.035 , p = ns ) . in those patients in whom sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( smvt ) was induced , brs was significantly reduced ( p = 0.001 ) as was hrv ( p = 0.007 ) and left ventricular ejection fraction ( p = 0.022 ) . the strongest association between any variable ( including hrv , brs , late potentials , left ventricular ejection fraction , exercise testing , q waves , and infarct site ) and the induction of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was depressed brs with a relative risk of 36.28 ( 95 % confidence interval , 5-266 ) . conclusions . this study confirms that depressed brs identifies a subgroup at high risk for arrhythmic events after myocardial infarction and that programmed ventricular stimulation may be safely limited to this group without any loss of predictive accuracy . 
giant cell versus lymphocytic myocarditis . a comparison of their clinical features and long-term outcomes background . giant cell myocarditis has rarely been diagnosed premortem , and little is known about its natural history . in addition , no comparative studies with lymphocytic myocarditis exist . methods and results . the clinical features , serial change in left ventricular fraction ( lvef ) , and outcomes of all patients with histologically verified myocarditis were retrospectively evaluated . ten patients ( 22 % ) were found to have giant cell myocarditis ( group 1 ) , whereas the remaining 36 ( 78 % ) had lymphocytic myocarditis ( group 2 ) . age at presentation , gender distribution , duration of symptoms , initial lvef , and resting hemodynamics did not differ between groups . ventricular tachycardia was detected in 90 % of group 1 patients compared with only 25 % of group 2 ( p = 0.0007 ) . atrioventricular block that required pacemaker insertion was also more common in group 1 ( 60 % ) than in group 2 ( 8.3 % ) ( p = 0.001 ) . left ventricular systolic function declined during follow-up in group 1 patients ( lvef , 0.43 + / - 0.07-0 .26 + / - 0.05 , p = 0.11 ) but increased in group 2 patients ( lvef , 0.33 + / - 0.03-0 .41 + / - 0.03 , p = 0.02 ) . when the net change between initial and final lvef was assessed , a significant difference was evident ( giant cell group , -0.17 + / - 0.06 ; lymphocytic group , +0.07 + / - 0.03 ; p = 0.0008 ) . although a greater proportion of patients in group 1 died or required transplantation ( seven of 10 versus 11 of 36 , p = 0.03 ) , actuarial survival over 4 years was not different for the giant cell group ( 50 % ) than for the lymphocytic group ( 62 % ) . conclusion . giant cell myocarditis was more prevalent than previously recognized and highly associated with both ventricular tachycardia and pacemaker requirement . the likelihood of an adverse event , either cardiovascular mortality or cardiac transplantation , was significantly greater for patients with giant cell myocarditis than for those with lymphocytic myocarditis , perhaps because of the progressive decline in left ventricular systolic function that was observed in those with giant cell myocarditis . 
alterations in left ventricular diastolic twist mechanics during acute human cardiac allograft rejection . background . contraction of obliquely oriented left ventricular ( lv ) fibers results in a twisting motion of the left ventricle . the purpose of this study was to assess the effects of acute human cardiac allograft rejection on lv twist pattern and the twist-volume relation . methods and results . tantalum markers were implanted into the lv midwall in 15 transplant recipients to measure time-varying , three-dimensional chamber twist using computer-assisted analysis of biplane cinefluoroscopic images . twist was defined as the mean longitudinal gradient of circumferential rotation about the lv long axis . when plotted against normalized percent ejection fraction ( % ef ) , the resulting twist-normalized % ef relation could be divided into three phases . in systole , lv twist was linearly related to ejection of blood . in contrast , diastolic untwist was characterized by early rapid recoil with little change in lv volume , followed by more gradual untwisting when the bulk of diastolic filling occurred . during 10 acute rejection episodes in 10 patients , maximum twist , peak systolic twist rate , and the slope of the systolic twist-normalized % ef relation did not change . in contrast , the slope of the early ( first 15 % of filling ) diastolic twist-normalized % ef relation ( m ( early-dia ) ) decreased significantly ( -0.194 + / - 0.062 [ prerejection ] versus -0.103 + / - 0.054 rad/cm [ rejection ] , p = 0.0003 ) , resulting in a prolonged tau 1/2 ( time required to untwist by 50 % [ 20 + / - 5 % versus 28 + / - 5 % of diastole ] , p = 0.0003 ) and decrease in percent untwisting at 15 % diastolic lv filling ( 62 + / - 11 % versus 36 + / - 13 % , p = 0.0003 ) . therefore , a greater proportion of lv untwisting occurred later in diastole during rejection , as reflected by an increase in the slope ( m ( mid-dia ) ) of the middle to late ( from 15 to 90 % filling ) diastolic twist-normalized % ef relation ( -0.018 + / - 0.009 versus -0.030 + / - 0.010 rad/cm , p = 0.0015 ) . peak rate of untwist was not affected . with resolution of rejection , m ( early-dia ) and percent untwist during early diastole returned to baseline levels ( p = ns versus baseline ) . there was also a trend for m ( mid-dia ) to return toward prerejection values ( p = ns versus baseline ) , but this change did not reach statistical significance compared with rejection values . conclusion . acute cardiac allograft rejection is associated with altered diastolic twist mechanics in the absence of any demonstratable systolic abnormalities . during rejection , myocardial edema and other factors may result in intrinsic changes of the elastic properties of the myocardium , thereby leading to modification of recoil forces responsible for the early , rapid unwinding of the deformed ventricle . 
multiplexing studies of effects of rapid atrial pacing on the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter in canine pericarditis model . background . we report that rapid atrial pacing interrupts atrial flutter when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse is blocked in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit . to characterize the area of slow conduction during atrial flutter and rapid pacing , we studied 11 episodes of induced atrial flutter , mean cycle length 157 + / - 20 msec , in eight dogs with sterile pericarditis . methods and results . atrial electrograms were recorded simultaneously from 95 pairs of right atrial electrodes during the interruption of atrial flutter by rapid atrial pacing , mean cycle length 139 + / - 21 msec . areas of slow conduction during atrial flutter were demonstrated at one to three sites in the reentry circuit . after rapid pacing captured the reentry circuit , one area of slow conduction either disappeared ( 10 episodes ) or the degree of slow conduction in an area of slow conduction decreased ( one episode ) . both changes were in association with activation of the region by a wave front from the pacing impulse that arrived from a direction different than that during the induced atrial flutter . interruption of atrial flutter during rapid pacing occurred when the orthodromic wave front from the pacing impulse blocked in an area of slow conduction that had either newly evolved during rapid pacing ( seven episodes ) or that was previously present ( four episodes ) . conclusions . areas of slow conduction present during atrial flutter and rapid pacing of atrial flutter are functional and depend on both the atrial rate and the direction of the circulating wave fronts . interruption of atrial flutter by rapid pacing results from block of the orthodromic wave front of the pacing impulse in an area of slow conduction in the reentry circuit . 
hemodynamic benefit of maintaining atrioventricular synchrony during cardiac pacing in critically ill patients . objective : to determine the hemodynamic effects of maintaining atrioventricular synchrony during emergency cardiac pacing in critically ill patients . design : prospective , within patient double-blind study . setting : icu or coronary care unit patients in a university hospital . patients : forty ( 23 cardiac surgery , ten acute myocardial infarction , and seven general intensive care ) seriously ill patients with severe symptomatic bradycardia . intervention : initial randomization of patients to receive either a pacing mode where atrioventricular synchronization was maintained ( atrioventricular pacing : atrial demand , atrioventricular sequential , atrioventricular universal ) or a mode of pacing where atrioventricular synchrony was not preserved ( ventricular demand pacing ) . measurements and main results : the cardiac output increased from a mean of 4.5 + / - 1.7 l/min ( 95 % confidence intervals : 4.0 to 5.0 l/min ) during ventricular demand pacing to 5.3 + / - 1.7 l/min ( 95 % confidence intervals : 4.9 to 5.9 l/min ) during atrioventricular pacing ( p less than .0001 ) despite trivial decreases in cvp from 14 + / - 4 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 13 to 15 mm hg ) to 13 + / - 5 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 12 to 15 mm hg ) and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure from 18 + / - 5 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 16 to 20 mm hg ) to 17 + / - 5 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 15 to 18 mm hg ) . at the same time , mean arterial pressure ( map ) increased from 74 + / - 15 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 64 to 79 mm hg ) to 83 + / - 15 mm hg ( 95 % confidence intervals : 80 to 88 mm hg ) and left ventricular stroke work index from 22 + / - 10 g.m / m2 ( 95 % confidence intervals : 19 to 25 g.m / m2 ) to 30 + / - 11 g.m / m2 ( 95 % confidence intervals : 26 to 33 g.m / m2 ) . there was no significant change in mean pulmonary artery pressure , pulmonary vascular resistance index , or systemic vascular resistance index . conclusion : when cardiac pacing is required in critically ill patients , maintaining atrioventricular synchrony increases stroke volume , cardiac output , and map apparently with minimal effects on preload and afterload . 
pulmonary aspiration during emergency endoscopy in patients with upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage . objective : to evaluate the frequency and significance of aspiration and its clinical importance in patients with upper gi bleeding undergoing esophagogastroduodenoscopy in the icu . design : thirty consecutive patients with active and severe upper gi bleeding were studied . setting : icu . patients : ranged in age from 20 to 78 yr with an equal number of males and females . interventions : all patients had continuous pulse oximetry monitoring and had chest radiographs obtained less than 12 hr before endoscopy and less than 4 hr after endoscopy . measurements : six ( 20 % ) of 30 patients developed new lung infiltrates after esophagogastroduodenoscopy . in this group of patients , preendoscopy chest radiographs were obtained after less than 4 hr . in five of these patients , infiltrates were accompanied by fever and/or leukocytosis and oxygen desaturation to less than 90 % during the esophagogastroduodenoscopy . conclusion : clinically significant aspiration pneumonia frequently complicates esophagogastroduodenoscopy in upper gi bleeding patients and is an important mechanism of esophagogastroduodenoscopy-induced hypoxia . 
predictors of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients . objective : to determine which factors are the best predictors of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients . design : prospective cohort study . setting : the burn and trauma icus at harborview medical center from march to september 1989 . patients : children were eligible for the study if they were less than 15 yr old , were intubated for greater than 12 hr , and did not have underlying cardiopulmonary disease . the study included 25 patients with 30 extubations . risk factors assessed : age , type of injury ( burn vs. trauma ) , location of intubation ( " field " vs. hospital ) , endotracheal tube size , length of intubation , and presence of an airleak around the tube at the time of extubation at 30 cm h2o pressure . main outcome measure : moderate to severe postextubation stridor requiring treatment with racemic epinephrine , helium-oxygen , reintubation , or tracheostomy . results : treatment for postextubation stridor was required after 11 ( 37 % ) of 30 extubations , with five reintubations and one tracheostomy . the best predictor of postextubation stridor was absence of an airleak at the time of extubation ( sensitivity 100 % , positive predictive value 79 % , p less than .001 ) , followed by type of injury ( facial burn vs. all others ; sensitivity 64 % , positive predictive value 88 % , p less than .001 ) . after controlling for these two factors , no other factor studied was a significant predictor of postextubation stridor . conclusion : in pediatric trauma patients , mechanism of injury ( facial burn vs. other ) and absence of an airleak at the time of extubation are the strongest factors predicting postextubation stridor . patients with one or both risk factors require special attention to airway management . 
helium-oxygen mixture in the treatment of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients . objective : to assess the effectiveness of a helium-oxygen mixture in reducing post-extubation stridor in children hospitalized for burns or trauma . design : randomized , controlled crossover trial . setting : harborview medical center 's burn and trauma icus from march to september 1989 . patients : children less than 15 yr old who were electively extubated and had symptoms of postextubation stridor , but required less than or equal to 35 % oxygen . intervention : each treatment ( helium-oxygen and oxygen-supplemented room air ) was given in random order for 15 min after extubation . measurements : respiratory distress was assessed by a physician blinded to treatment order using a standard stridor score and clinical judgment . results : there were 13 children with 15 extubations ; seven ( 47 % ) of 15 patients required subsequent treatment with racemic epinephrine or reintubation . stridor scores were lower with helium-oxygen than with oxygen-supplemented room air ( 2.8 vs. 3.7 , p less than .005 ) , and helium-oxygen was preferred in eight of nine trials in which one treatment was clearly favored by the physician . conclusion : because helium-oxygen therapy can reduce stridor scores and is clinically preferred by physicians caring for stridorous children , it may be a useful adjunctive therapy in pediatric trauma patients with postextubation stridor . 
small-volume resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock in dogs : effects on systemic hemodynamics and systemic blood flow . background and methods : this study compared canine systemic hemodynamics and organ blood flow ( radioactive microsphere technique ) after resuscitation with 0.8 % saline ( na + 137 meq/l ) , 7.2 % hypertonic saline ( na + 1233 meq/l ) , 20 % hydroxyethyl starch in 0.8 % saline , or 20 % hydroxyethyl starch in 7.2 % saline , each in a volume approximating 15 % of shed blood volume . twenty-four endotracheally intubated mongrel dogs ( 18 to 24 kg ) underwent a 30-min period of hemorrhagic shock , from time 0 to 30 min into the shock period , followed by fluid resuscitation . data were collected at baseline , 15 min into the shock period , immediately after fluid infusion , 5 min after the beginning of resuscitation , and at 60-min intervals for 2 hr , ( 65 min after the beginning of resuscitation , and 125 min after the beginning of resuscitation ) . the animals received one of four randomly assigned iv resuscitation fluids : saline ( 54 ml/kg ) , hypertonic saline ( 6.0 ml/kg ) , hydroxyethel starch ( 6.0 ml/kg ) or hypertonic saline/hydroxyethyl starch ( 6.0 ml/kg ) . results : mean arterial pressure increased in all groups after resuscitation . cardiac output increased with resuscitation in all groups , exceeding baseline in the saline and hypertonic saline/hydroxyethyl starch groups ( p less than .05 compared with hypertonic saline or hydroxyethyl starch ) . sixty-five minutes after the beginning of resuscitation , cardiac output was significantly ( p less than .05 ) greater in either of the two colloid-containing groups than in the hypertonic saline group . after resuscitation , hypertonic saline and hydroxyethyl starch produced minimal improvements in hepatic arterial flow , hypertonic saline/hydroxyethyl starch increased hepatic arterial flow to near baseline levels , and saline markedly increased hepatic arterial flow to levels exceeding baseline ( p less than .05 , saline vs. hydroxyethyl starch ) . one hundred twenty-five minutes after the beginning of resuscitation , hepatic arterial flow had decreased in all groups ; hepatic arterial flow in the hypertonic saline group had decreased to levels comparable with those during shock . myocardial , renal , and brain blood flow were not significantly different between groups . conclusions : small-volume resuscitation with the combination of hypertonic saline/hydroxyethyl starch is comparable with much larger volumes of 0.8 % saline , and is equal to hypertonic saline or hydroxyethyl starch in the ability to restore and sustain bp and improve organ blood flow after resuscitation from hemorrhagic shock . 
mild hypothermic cardiopulmonary resuscitation improves outcome after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs background and methods : this study was designed to explore the effect of mild cerebral and systemic hypothermia ( 34 degrees c ) on outcome after prolonged cardiac arrest in dogs . after ventricular fibrillation with no flow of 10 min , and standard external cpr with epinephrine ( low flow ) from ventricular fibrillation time of 10 to 15 min , defibrillation and restoration of spontaneous normotension were between ventricular fibrillation time of 16 and 20 min . this procedure was followed by controlled ventilation to 20 hr postarrest and intensive care to 72 hr postarrest . in control group 1 ( n = 10 ) , core temperature was 37.5 degrees c ; in control group 2 ( n = 10 ) , cooling was started immediately after restoration of spontaneous normotension ; and in group 3 ( n = 10 ) , cooling was initiated with start of cpr . cooling was by clinically feasible methods . results : best overall performance categories achieved ( 1 = normal ; 5 = brain death ) were better in group 2 ( p = .012 ) and group 3 ( p = .005 ) than in group 1 . best neurologic deficit scores were 36 + / - 14 % in group 1 , 22 + / - 15 % in group 2 ( p = .02 ) , and 19 + / - 18 % in group 3 ( p = .01 ) . brain histopathologic damage scores were also lower ( better ) in groups 2 ( p = .05 ) and 3 ( p = .03 ) . myocardial damage was the same in all three groups . conclusion : mild cerebral hypothermia started during or immediately after external cpr improves neurologic recovery . 
age effects susceptibility to pulmonary barotrauma in rabbits . objective : we studied the effect of age on the development of pulmonary barotrauma after mechanical ventilation with high peak inspiratory pressures ( pip ) . design : young ( 4 to 6 wk old ) and adult rabbits were ventilated for 1 hr at pips of 15 , 30 , and either 45 cm h2o ( young group ) or 55 cm h2o ( adult group ) . measurements and main results : the pulmonary capillary filtration coefficient ( kf , c ) was measured in an isolated lung perfusion system after the animals were killed . in young rabbits , kf , c increased significantly from the 15 cm h2o pip value in both the 30 cm h2o ( 55 % ) and 45 cm h2o ( 507 % ) pip groups , whereas kf , c was increased in adult rabbits only in the 55 cm h2o ( 113 % ) pip group . kf , c was significantly ( p less than .01 ) higher in young rabbits than in adult rabbits after ventilation , with every level of pip being 91 % higher at 15 cm h2o pip and 440 % higher at 45 to 55 cm h2o pip . also , a greater incidence of pneumothorax and airleaks was observed in the young rabbits . pressure-volume loops demonstrated that the young rabbits had more compliant lungs and chest wall than adult rabbits . conclusions : these data indicate that the lungs of young rabbits had a higher baseline microvascular permeability and were more susceptible to the development of ventilator-induced increased microvascular permeability . more compliant lungs and chest wall and the larger distending volumes attained at each peak airway pressure appear to be the mechanisms . 
postoperative irrigation-suction drainage after pelvic colonic surgery . a prospective randomized trial . a 2-year randomized prospective clinical trial was undertaken to determine whether postoperative irrigation of the pelvis would result in a decreased incidence of local septic complications . two hundred consecutive patients undergoing low pelvic procedures with rectal resection and entry of the presacral space by a single surgeon , were randomized . in the irrigation group , two of four presacral sump drains were placed to low intermittent suction and the remaining sumps infused continuously with saline until the effluent was clear . in the drainage alone group , all four presacral sump drains were placed to suction . drains were removed when drainage was less than 50 ml/24 hours . perioperative antibiotics and bowel preparation were identical . postoperative complications included pelvic abscess ( n = 7 ) , anastomotic leak/cuff sinus ( n = 11 ) , abdominal wound infection ( n = 19 ) , and perineal wound infection ( n = 5 ) . postoperative irrigation of the pelvis did not result in a reduction in the overall rate of local pelvic septic complications . positive intraoperative presacral cultures , the presence of anaerobes in the presacral space , and duration of pelvic drainage had no effect on the development of pelvic sepsis . 
hemorrhoidectomy during pregnancy : risk or relief ? acute hemorrhoidal crisis can occur in the pregnant female . when medical therapy fails to relieve pain , operative intervention may be necessary . the surgeon , however , may be reluctant to operate due to potential complications to the mother and fetus . from july 1983 to july 1989 , hemorrhoidectomy was performed in 25 of 12,455 pregnant women ( 0.2 percent ) who delivered in our institution . twenty-two women were in their third trimester , 80 percent were multiparous , and each had a remote history of hemorrhoidal symptoms , including intermittent pain , bleeding , and protrusion . closed hemorrhoidectomy was performed under local anesthesia . the surgery was directed at removing only symptomatic disease , which included three quadrants in 14 patients , two quadrants in seven patients , and one quadrant in four patients . all patients experienced relief of intractable pain the day after surgery , except one patient who required a hemostatic packing during the immediate post-operative period . there were no other maternal or fetal complications . subsequent follow-up for anorectal disease ranged from 6 months to 6 years . six ( 24 percent ) patients required additional hemorrhoid treatment . hemorrhoidectomy in selected pregnant patients is safe in our experience . 
loop ileostomy after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis -- is it necessary ? construction of a loop ileostomy is usually advised in patients having an ileal pouch-anal anastomosis to minimize the complication of chronic pelvic sepsis . formation and closure of a loop ileostomy was associated with a 41 percent and 30 percent complication rate , respectively , in a prospective series of 34 patients . this morbidity must now be assessed in relation to the benefits of avoiding temporary fecal diversion in restorative proctocolectomy . 
surgical treatment of low rectovaginal fistulas . forty women with low rectovaginal fistulas were operated upon over a 9-year period . the etiology of the fistula in the majority was obstetric . nine women had prior attempts to repair the fistula . all 40 women were managed with endorectal advancement flap with the addition of sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction in 15 patients and rectocele repair in six patients . postoperative complications included urinary difficulties ( two patients ) and wound complications ( three patients ) . there were two recurrences . all women treated with sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction were continent . seven women complained of varying degrees of incontinence postoperatively ; none had undergone sphincter or perineal body reconstruction . endorectal advancement flap is a safe and effective operation for women with rectovaginal fistulas . concomitant sphincteroplasty or perineal body reconstruction should be performed in women with historical , physical , or manometric evidence of incontinence . 
dysplasia and dna aneuploidy in a pelvic pouch . report of a case . a patient with an 18-year history of ulcerative colitis was operated on with colectomy , mucosal proctectomy , ileoanal anastomosis , and an s-type pelvic pouch due to intractable chronic continuous disease . the patient was followed by endoscopic controls and biopsy sampling from the pouch at regular intervals . a gradual development of severe atrophy in the ileal mucosa was followed by the development of low grade dysplasia . at the most recent endoscopic control , 4 years after the construction of the pouch , biopsies were sampled also for flow cytometric dna analyses . dna aneuploidy was detected in a biopsy from the center of the pouch , and a biopsy taken immediately adjacent showed low grade dysplasia . these findings underline the importance of endoscopic follow-up after construction of a pelvic pouch and focus attention to the potential of malignant transformation of the mucosa . 
corticotropin-releasing factor modulates the immune response to stress in the rat . we examined the role of crf , a key mediator of the endocrine response to stress , in modulating immunosuppression during the subacute stress of intermittent electrical shock over 1 h. administration of shock to intact rats resulted in a 74 % decrement in t-lymphocyte proliferation and a 59 % decrease in natural killer cytotoxicity . similar suppression of these two parameters of immune function in response to shock was noted in adrenalectomized rats as well . the immunosuppressive effects of this shock were significantly and comparably blunted when both intact and adrenalectomized animals were pretreated 1 ) iv with either a highly potent polyclonal crf antibody or a specific crf antagonist or 2 ) intracerebroventricularly with either a high affinity monoclonal antibody to crf or a specific crf antagonist . an immunomodulatory role for crf is further supported by the findings that administration of exogenous crf , either iv ( 10 micrograms/animal ) or intracerebroventricularly ( 1 microgram/animal ) , resulted in significant decrements in lymphocyte proliferation and natural killer cytotoxicity , similar to those seen with the stress paradigm . our observations indicate that crf plays a significant role in modulating the immune response to subacute stress , largely by adrenal-independent mechanisms . 
the pituitary-adrenocortical system of neonatal rats is responsive to stress throughout development in a time-dependent and stressor-specific fashion . the responsiveness of the neonatal hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis to stress has been thought to be impaired or diminished during the first 2 weeks of life . although we previously found full responsiveness of the hypothalamus-pituitary unit to adrenalectomy in young rats [ days ( d ) 5-10 ] , we failed to measure a significant increase in acth 10 min after ether administration until d14 of age . these studies were , therefore , designed to test the functional activation of the hpa axis after a single or repeated exposures to stress . both qualitative ( time-course , stressor-specific , circadian ) and quantitative changes in the acth and corticosterone ( b ) responses to various stressors were tested during the first 10 days of life . exposure to 3 min of ether vapor increased acth and b secretion ( p less than 0.05-0 .01 ) in 1 - , 5 - , and 10-d-old rats , with an increasing amplitude of both acth and b responses as a function of age . peak secretion of acth occurred 5 min after the onset of stress ( 122 + / - 3.8 to 359 + / - 54 pg/ml on d1-10 ) , while the time of maximal b increased as a function of age . other stressors , such as maternal separation ( 12 h ) , cold ( 4 c ; 60 min ) , or histamine injection ( 4 mg/kg bw , ip ) , provoked significant and stressor-specific acth and b responses in 10-d old rats . histamine administration increased acth secretion above that of vehicle-injected rats , with a peak of secretion 15 min after drug injection ( 272 + / - 29 vs. 127 + / - 8 pg/ml ; p less than 0.01 ) . histamine-induced b secretion peaked at 60 min ( 3.7 + / - 0.5 micrograms/dl ) . in contrast to early responses observed after ether , separation , or histamine stress , cold stress in 10-d-old pups caused a large acth and b release 4 h after the onset of cold compared to that in maternally deprived pups [ acth : cold , 457 + / - 61 pg/ml ; separated , 150 + / - 14 ( p less than 0.01 ) ; b : cold , 3.3 + / - 0.4 micrograms/dl ; separated , 1.8 + / - 0.2 ( p less than 0.05 ) ] . we did not detect morning-evening ( am-pm ) differences in either the pattern or the magnitude of the acth or b response to maternal separation or cold stress . suppression of cold-induced acth release by b injection ( 1 mg/kg bw ) 2 h before stress was observed until 4 h after stress in the am and pm , whereas when given after cold , b was less effective in the pm than in the am at preventing the rise in acth levels observed at 4 h. ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
managing geriatric arrhythmias , i : general considerations . cardiac arrhythmias become increasingly common as people age , but they are not always clinically significant . sinus node dysfunction , av conduction disturbances , and ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias will be found but are not always symptomatic . treatment of asymptomatic arrhythmias is controversial and probably not indicated , but in symptomatic elderly , therapy is indicated , since even the very elderly have been found to benefit from it as much as younger patients . there are specific guidelines , however , that apply to this age group based on its susceptibility to side effects . 
geriatric constipation : brief update on a common problem . constipation occurs frequently in the elderly and is often multifactorial in origin . a search for an underlying cause is necessary , and can often be found by taking an adequate history and performing a thorough physical examination . a minority of patients require further investigation , guided by the clinical setting . management should be directed at correcting the underlying cause and providing dietary advice and , less commonly , medication to allow restoration of a normal bowel habit . 
hyposensitivity to vasopressin in patients with hepatitis b-related cirrhosis during acute variceal hemorrhage . it has been suggested that vasopressin given during hemorrhage may be less effective than when given during a stable state in a portal-hypertensive rat model . this study was designed to evaluate the hemodynamic response to vasopressin infusion in 25 hbsag-positive cirrhotic patients . nine patients had active variceal hemorrhage before vasopressin infusion , and the other 16 patients were in a stable condition at the time of infusion . the two groups of patients were similar in baseline values except that a higher heart rate was found in patients with hemorrhage ( 96 + / - 20 vs. 73 + / - 10 beats/min , mean + / - s.d. , p less than 0.01 ) . thirty minutes after vasopressin infusion ( 0.66 units/min ) , hepatic venous pressure gradient significantly decreased in both bleeding and stable patients ( from 21 + / - 9 to 18 + / - 9 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ; and from 18 + / - 4 to 8 + / - 3 mm hg , p less than 0.0001 , respectively ) . however , the decrease of hepatic venous pressure gradient was less obvious in bleeding patients as compared with stable patients ( 4 + / - 3 vs. 9 + / - 2 mm hg , p less than 0.0001 ) . a significant reduction of hepatic venous pressure gradient after vasopressin infusion was found in five bleeding patients without shock ( from a median of 16 mm hg [ range = 12 to 26 ] to 11 mm hg [ range = 6 to 18 ] , p less than 0.05 ) , but not in four bleeding patients with shock ( from 28 [ range = 15 to 36 ] to 25 [ range = 18 to 33 ] mm hg , p greater than 0.05 ) . 
expression of x protein and hepatitis b virus replication in chronic hepatitis . the x protein can act on the enhancer of hepatitis b virus in an in vitro system and elevate the transcriptional level of hepatitis b virus . however , because no relationship had been reported between x protein expression and hepatitis b virus replication in patients with chronic hepatitis b , we focused on its expression in the liver in comparison with markers of hepatitis b virus replication . liver biopsy samples and sera from 59 carriers with hbsag were examined immunohistochemically for x protein using rabbit igg against recombinant x protein . there was a significant difference in the serum hepatitis b virus dna level between x protein-positive and - negative patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . serum pre-s1 and pre-s2 antigens were also measured quantitatively by enzyme immunoassay using monoclonal antibodies specific against each antigen . the titers of pre-s1 antigen in patients positive for x protein were significantly higher ( p less than 0.001 ) than those of the x protein-negative patients ( 3.02 + / - 0.99 vs. 2.00 + / - 0.59 , respectively ) . similarly , the titers of pre-s2 antigen were 2.98 + / - 0.91 vs. 1.94 + / - 0.54 , respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) . the rate of positivity of the x protein was higher ( 38 of 49 ; 77.6 % ) in the replicative group ( serum hbeag , serum hepatitis b virus dna or hbcag in liver positive ) compared with that observed in the nonreplicative group ( 3 of 10 ; 30 % -- serum hbeag , serum hepatitis b virus dna and hbcag in liver negative ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
trolox protects rat hepatocytes against oxyradical damage and the ischemic rat liver from reperfusion injury . trolox , a hydrophilic analog of vitamin e , was reported to scavenge peroxyl radicals from artificial systems better than its parent compound . here we examined the possible cytoprotective effect of trolox in cultured hepatocytes and in the rat liver . in cultured rat hepatocytes , 0.5 to 16 mmol/l trolox ( with optimum between 1 to 2 mmol/l ) was observed to prolong the survival of cells exposed to oxyradicals generated with xanthine oxidase-hypoxanthine . the protection by 1 mmol/l trolox surpassed that provided by either ascorbate , mannitol , superoxide dismutase and/or catalase -- each at a level giving its maximal protection in the same system . in both a global and partial model of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion in rats , infusion of trolox ( 7.5 to 10 mumol/kg body weight ) just before reflow reduced by greater than 80 % the liver necrosis sustained in untreated ( no trolox ) control rats . such organ salvage was apparently accompanied by approximately 50 % reduction in the amount of hepatic conjugated dienes , which were quantified by a highly specific radiochemical assay . since conjugated dienes are presumed to be good " markers " of oxyradical damage , our data may have provided a semiquantitative link between free radical-induced necrosis and its chemical imprint in vivo . the data also indicated a relatively rapid and potent antioxidant-like action by trolox on rat hepatocytes and on the postischemic reperfused rat liver . 
effects of antihypertensive therapy on mechanics of cerebral arterioles in rats . the purpose of this study was to examine effects of antihypertensive treatment on structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles and the incidence of stroke in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrsp ) . treatment of hypertension was begun at 3 months of age with cilazapril ( 45 mg/kg/day ) , an angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor , or with hydralazine ( 18 mg/kg/day ) . cilazapril and hydralazine reduced systolic arterial pressure ( from 195 + / - 8 to 125 + / - 5 and 148 + / - 3 mm hg , respectively [ mean + / - sem ] ; p less than 0.05 ) . to examine structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles , we measured pressure ( servonull ) , external diameter , and cross-sectional area of the vessel wall ( histologically ) in pial arterioles of normotensive wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats and shrsp that were untreated or that were treated for 3 months with cilazapril or with hydralazine . arterioles were maximally dilated with edta . in wky rats , cilazapril and hydralazine did not alter pial arteriolar pressure , external diameter , or cross-sectional area of the vessel wall . in shrsp , both cilazapril and hydralazine reduced cross-sectional area of the vessel wall to levels not significantly different from wky rats ( from 1,911 + / - 155 to 1,244 + / - 101 and 1,388 + / - 59 microns 2 , respectively , compared with 1,405 + / - 95 microns 2 for untreated wky rats ) . cilazapril was more effective than hydralazine in reducing pial arteriolar pressure ( from 110 + / - 6 to 62 + / - 2 mm hg with cilazapril versus 79 + / - 5 mm hg for hydralazine compared with 60 + / - 4 mm hg for untreated wky rats ) . cilazapril , but not hydralazine , attenuated reductions in external diameter of pial arterioles ( from 91 + / - 4 to 100 + / - 4 microns for cilazapril versus 91 + / - 3 microns for hydralazine compared with 107 + / - 3 microns for untreated wky rats ) . 
mucin production by human colonic carcinoma cells correlates with their metastatic potential in animal models of colon cancer metastasis . patients with mucinous colorectal cancers characteristically present with advanced disease , however , the relationship between mucin production by colon cancer cells and their metastatic potential remains unclear . we therefore sought to define the relationship between mucin production by human colon cancer cells and metastatic ability by employing animal models of colon cancer metastasis . ls lim 6 , a colon carcinoma cell line with high liver metastasizing ability during cecal growth in nude mice produced twofold more metabolically labeled intracellular mucin and secreted four - to fivefold more mucin into the culture medium compared to poorly metastatic parental line ls174t . this was accompanied by a similar elevation in poly ( a ) + rna detected by blot hybridization with a human intestinal mucin cdna probe , and increases in mucin core carbohydrate antigens determined immunohistochemically . variants of ls174t selected for high ( hm 7 ) or low ( lm 12 ) mucin synthesizing capacity also yielded metastases after cecal growth and colonized the liver after splenic-portal injection in proportion to their ability to produce mucin . inhibition of mucin glycosylation by the arylglycoside benzyl-alpha-n-acetyl-galactosamine greatly reduced liver colonization after splenic-portal injection of the tumor cells . these data suggest that mucin production by human colon cancer cells correlates with their metastatic potential and affects their ability to colonize the liver in experimental model systems . 
risk factors for emphysema . cigarette smoking is associated with a reduction in the association rate constant of lung alpha 1-antitrypsin for neutrophil elastase . the increased risk of developing emphysema among individuals who smoke cigarettes and who have normal levels of alpha 1-antitrypsin ( alpha 1at ) is hypothesized to result from a decrease in the antineutrophil elastase capacity of the lower respiratory tract alpha 1at of smokers compared with nonsmokers . to evaluate this hypothesis we compared the time-dependent kinetics of the inhibition of neutrophil elastase by lung alpha 1at from healthy , young cigarette smokers ( n = 8 ) and nonsmokers ( n = 12 ) . alpha 1-antitrypsin was purified from lavage fluid using affinity and molecular sieve chromatography , and the association rate constant ( k assoc ) for neutrophil elastase quantified . the k assoc of smoker plasma alpha 1at ( 9.5 + / - 0.5 x 10 ( 6 ) m-1s-1 ) was similar to that of nonsmoker plasma ( 9.3 + / - 0.7 x 10 ( 6 ) m-1s-1 , p greater than 0.5 ) . in marked contrast , the k assoc of smoker lower respiratory tract alpha 1at was significantly lower than that of nonsmoker alpha 1at ( 6.5 + / - 0.4 x 10 ( 6 ) m-1s-1 vs. 8.1 + / - 0.5 x 10 ( 6 ) m-1s-1 , p less than 0.01 ) . furthermore , the smoker lower respiratory tract alpha 1at k assoc was significantly less than that of autologous plasma ( p less than 0.01 ) . when considered in the context of the concentration of alpha 1at in the lower respiratory tract epithelial lining fluid , the inhibition time for neutrophil elastase of smoker lung alpha 1at was twofold greater than that of nonsmoker lung alpha 1at ( smoker : 0.34 + / - 0.05 s vs. nonsmoker : 0.17 + / - 0.05 s , p less than 0.01 ) . consequently , for concentrations of alpha 1at in the lower respiratory tract it takes twice as long for an equivalent amount of neutrophil elastase to be inhibited in the smoker 's lung compared with the nonsmoker 's lung . these observations support the concept that cigarette smoking is associated with a decrease in the lower respiratory tract neutrophil elastase inhibitory capacity , thus increasing the vulnerability of the lung to elastolytic destruction and thereby increasing the risk for the development of emphysema . 
transforming growth factor beta 1 suppresses acute and chronic arthritis in experimental animals . systemic administration of the cytokine , tgf beta 1 , profoundly antagonized the development of polyarthritis in susceptible rats . tgf beta 1 administration ( 1 or 5 micrograms/animal ) , initiated one day before an arthritogenic dose of streptococcal cell wall ( scw ) fragments , virtually eliminated the joint swelling and distortion typically observed during both the acute phase ( articular index , ai = 2.5 vs. 11 ; p less than 0.025 ) and the chronic phase ( ai = 0 vs. 12.5 ) of the disease . moreover , tgf beta 1 suppressed the evolution of arthritis even when administration was begun after the acute phase of the disease . histopathological examination of the joint revealed the systemic tgf beta 1 treatment greatly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration , pannus formation , and joint erosion . consistent with the inhibition of inflammatory cell recruitment into the synovium , tgf beta 1 reversed the leukocytosis associated with the chronic phase of the arthritis . control animals subjected to the same tgf beta 1 dosing regimen displayed no discernable immunosuppressive or toxic effects even after 4 wk of treatment . these observations not only provide insight into the immunoregulatory effects of tgf beta , but also implicate this cytokine as a potentially important therapeutic agent . 
mycoplasma pulmonis infections cause long-lasting potentiation of neurogenic inflammation in the respiratory tract of the rat . these experiments were done to learn whether mycoplasma pulmonis infections of the respiratory tract of rats can potentiate " neurogenic inflammation " and whether this potentiation is amplified by factors that exacerbate the infections . pathogen-free f344 rats were inoculated intranasally with m. pulmonis or with sterile culture medium and then lived for 4 wk in an ammonia-free atmosphere or in air containing ammonia ( 100 parts per million ) . neurogenic inflammation was evoked by an intravenous injection of capsaicin , and 5 min later the magnitude of the response was quantified by measuring the amount of extravasation of two tracers , monastral blue pigment and evans blue dye . we found that vascular permeability in the tracheas of all rats was normal in the absence of capsaicin . however , a 75-micrograms/kg dose of capsaicin , which caused almost no extravasation of evans blue in the tracheas of pathogen-free controls ( 17 + / - 3 ng/mg ; mean + / - se ) , produced extensive extravasation in the infected rats ( 135 + / - 18 ng/mg ; p less than 0.001 ) . similarly , this dose of capsaicin produced 30 times as much monastral blue extravasation in the infected rats ( area density = 47 + / - 8 % of surface area ) as it did in the pathogen-free rats ( 1.6 + / - 0.5 % ; p less than 0.001 ) , a difference that resulted from increases in the number of monastral blue-labeled postcapillary venules and in the amount of labeling per venule . exposure of the infected rats to ammonia exacerbated the infections , further increased the number of monastral blue-labeled vessels and the amount of labeling per vessel , and made the rats so sensitive to capsaicin that a normally tolerable dose of 150 micrograms/kg i.v. caused fatal apnea . ammonia did not have these effects in pathogen-free rats . we conclude that m. pulmonis infections of the airway mucosa cause a potent , long-lasting potentiation of neurogenic inflammation , which results in part from an increase in the number and responsiveness of mediator-sensitive postcapillary venules . these changes can be amplified by environmental factors such as ammonia which exacerbate the infections . 
tumor necrosis factor downregulates granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor receptor expression on human acute myeloid leukemia cells and granulocytes . tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) inhibits granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) - induced human acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) growth in vitro . incubation of blasts from three patients with aml in serum-free medium with tnf ( 10 ( 3 ) u/ml ) , and subsequent binding studies using 125i-g-csf reveal that tnf downregulates the numbers of g-csf receptors by approximately 70 % . g-csf receptor numbers on purified blood granulocytes are also downmodulated by tnf . downregulation of g-csf receptor expression becomes evident within 10 min after incubation of the cells with tnf at 37 degrees c and is not associated with an apparent change of the dissociation constant ( kd ) . the tnf effect does not occur at 0 degrees c and can not be induced by il-2 , il-6 , or gm-csf . tnf probably exerts its effect through activation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) as the tnf effect on g-csf receptor levels can be mimicked by 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13 - acetate . the pkc inhibitor staurosporine ( sigma chemical co. , st. louis , mo ) as well as protease inhibitors can completely prevent g-csf receptor downmodulation . thus , it appears tnf may act as a regulator of g-csf receptor expression in myeloid cells and shut off g-csf dependent hematopoiesis . the regulatory ability of tnf may explain the antagonism between tnf and g-csf stimulation . 
infantile form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiency with hepatomuscular symptoms and sudden death . physiopathological approach to carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiencies . reported cases of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii ( cpt ii ) deficiency are characterized only by a muscular symptomatology in young adults although the defect is expressed in extra-muscular tissues as well as in skeletal muscle . we describe here a cpt ii deficiency associating hypoketotic hypoglycemia , high plasma creatine kinase level , heart beat disorders , and sudden death in a 3-mo-old boy . cpt ii defect ( -90 % ) diagnosed in fibroblasts is qualitatively similar to that ( -75 % ) of two " classical " cpt ii-deficient patients previously studied : it resulted from a decreased amount of cpt ii probably arising from its reduced biosynthesis . consequences of cpt ii deficiency studied in fibroblasts differed in both sets of patients . an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids was found in the proband but not in patients with the " classical " form of the deficiency . the metabolic and clinical consequences of cpt ii deficiency might depend , in part , on the magnitude of residual cpt ii activity . with 25 % residual activity cpt ii would become rate limiting in skeletal muscle but not in liver , heart , and fibroblasts . as observed in the patient described herein , cpt ii activity ought to be more reduced to induce an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids in these tissues . 
hypoxia induces a specific set of stress proteins in cultured endothelial cells . vascular endothelial cells ( ec ) are the initial cells within the vascular wall exposed to decreases in blood ambient oxygen concentration . the mechanisms by which they tolerate low levels of oxygen are unknown , but may parallel the response to other cellular stresses , such as heat shock . after 4-8 h of hypoxia , we found a decrease in total protein synthesis in both cultured bovine aortic and pulmonary arterial ec . sds-page and autoradiographic analysis of [ 35s ] methionine-labeled proteins demonstrated the concomitant induction of a specific set of proteins ( mr 34 , 36 , 47 , and 56 kd ) in both cell types . these hypoxia-associated proteins ( haps ) were cell-associated and up-regulated in a time - and oxygen concentration-dependent manner . comparison of these proteins with heat shock proteins ( hsps ) demonstrated that haps were distinct from hsps . ec maintained chronically in 3 % o2 continued to synthesize elevated levels of haps , yet further up-regulated these proteins when exposed to 0 % o2 . the presence of five times the normal media glucose concentration did not alter the appearance of haps . hypoxia sensitive renal tubular epithelial cells up-regulated no proteins corresponding to haps and were irreversibly damaged within 8 h of exposure to 0 % o2 . in vitro translation experiments demonstrated that the steady-state level of several mrnas was higher in the anoxic ec than in normoxic ec and encoded for proteins of mr 32 , 35 , 37 , 40 , and 48 kd that were different from proteins encoded by hsp mrnas . the induction of haps during acute hypoxia and their continued synthesis in chronic hypoxia suggest that haps may be important in the maintenance of endothelial cell integrity under conditions of decreased ambient oxygen . 
identification of lymphotoxin and tumor necrosis factor in multiple sclerosis lesions . multiple sclerosis ( ms ) brain tissue , spleen , and pbmc were studied using immunocytochemistry and facs for immunoreactivity for lymphotoxin ( lt ) and tnf . both cytokines were identified in acute and chronic active ms lesions but were absent from chronic silent lesions . lt was associated with cd3 + lymphocytes and leu-m5 + microglia cells at the lesion edge and to a lesser extent , in adjacent white matter . tnf was associated with astrocytes in all areas of the lesion , and with foamy macrophages in the center of the active lesion . in acute lesions , immunoreactivity for tnf in endothelial cells was noted at the lesion edge . no lt or tnf reactivity was detected in alzheimer 's or parkinson 's disease brain tissues but was present at lower levels in central nervous system ( cns ) tissue from other inflammatory conditions , except for adrenoleucodystrophy which displayed high levels of lt in microglia . no increase in lt and tnf reactivity was detected in spleen and pbmc of ms patients suggesting specific reactivity within the cns . these results indicate that lt and tnf may be involved in the immunopathogenesis of ms , and can be detected in both inflammatory cells and cells endogenous to the cns . 
evidence that tumor necrosis factor plays a pathogenetic role in the paraneoplastic syndromes of cachexia , hypercalcemia , and leukocytosis in a human tumor in nude mice . recently , we have established a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla ( called mh-85 ) associated with hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia in culture . mh-85 tumor cells caused the same paraneoplastic syndromes in tumor-bearing nude mice . we found that there was a sixfold increase in splenic size in mh-85 tumor-bearing mice . this increase paralleled tumor growth and was reversed by surgical removal of the tumor . splenectomy in nude mice 1 wk before or 6 wk after tumor inoculation resulted in a decrease in tumor growth , and impairment of hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia . in mh-85 tumor-bearing animals that had been pretreated by splenectomy , intravenous injection of fresh normal spleen cells caused an immediate reversal of leukocytosis , hypercalcemia , and cachexia . since the presence of cachexia in both the patient and the mice carrying the tumor suggested tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) may be overproduced , we injected polyclonal neutralizing antibodies raised against murine tnf into tumor-bearing mice . there was a rapid and reproducible decrease in blood ionized calcium , accompanied by suppression of osteoclast activity . no changes in blood ionized calcium were seen in mice injected with normal immune sera . in addition , there was an increase in body weight and decrease in white cell count . plasma immunoreactive tnf was increased almost fourfold in tumor-bearing nude mice compared with control nude mice . although tnf activity was undetectable in mh-85 culture supernatants , cells of the macrophage lineage , including spleen cells , released increased amounts of tnf when cultured with mh-85 tumor-conditioned media . these results suggest that splenic cytokines such as tnf may influence the development of the paraneoplastic syndromes of hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia in these animals , as well as tumor growth . they also show that paraneoplastic syndromes may be due to factors produced by normal host cells stimulated by the presence of the tumor . 
the reliability of frozen sections in the evaluation of surgical margins for melanoma . as the width of surgical margins declines , histologic evaluation of the margins is needed to assess the completeness of excision of a malignant melanoma . we studied 221 specimens in 59 patients and compared the interpretations of frozen and paraffin sections from the same block . frozen sections had a sensitivity of 100 % in detecting melanoma when present and a specificity of 90 % . 
infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin : study of ten cases . infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin is not included as a separate entity in the current english-language literature as it is in continental europe . therefore we have attempted to clarify the nosologic position of acute hemorrhagic edema among cutaneous vasculitides in children , on the basis of our experience in 10 cases . our study confirms that acute hemorrhagic edema affects infants between 4 and 24 months of age . the two main features are an ecchymotic purpura , often in a cockade pattern , and an inflammatory edema of the limbs and face . visceral involvement is uncommon . spontaneous and complete resolution occurs within 1 to 3 weeks ; one to four attacks may occur . histopathologic examination demonstrates a leukocytoclastic vasculitis . perivascular iga deposits can occasionally be found . besides typical acute hemorrhagic edema , some cases in 2 - to 4-year-old children appear to overlap with schonlein-henoch purpura . we suggest that typical acute hemorrhagic edema should be regarded as a separate clinical entity . this allows an appropriate prognosis to be made for this generally benign disease of infants . 
identification of herpes simplex virus dna in lesions of erythema multiforme by the polymerase chain reaction . an association between erythema multiforme and herpes simplex virus infection has been supported by clinical studies and by the detection by immunofluorescence of herpes viral antigen in sera and skin biopsy specimens of patients with erythema multiforme . in rare cases , the virus has also been isolated in cultures of skin biopsy specimens of erythema multiforme . to investigate further the association between erythema multiforme and herpes simplex virus , we used the polymerase chain reaction for herpes simplex virus to examine skin lesions from patients with erythema multiforme . in this study herpes simplex virus dna was detected in 11 of 31 biopsy specimens of erythema multiforme ; six additional cases showed equivocal amplification results , which is suggestive of low amounts of viral dna . seven skin and mucosal biopsy specimens with the histologic changes of herpes virus infection served as positive controls : all were positive for herpes simplex virus dna . viral dna was not detected in control biopsy specimens from skin excised for unrelated conditions . these studies support the association of herpes simplex virus in the pathogenesis of some cases of erythema multiforme . the polymerase chain reaction provides a quick and effective method of detecting herpes simplex virus in lesions of herpes-associated erythema multiforme . furthermore , the polymerase chain reaction may delineate those cases of erythema multiforme that are etiologically related to herpes virus infection and therefore might be treated with acyclovir to prevent recurrence . 
langerhans cell histiocytosis in monozygotic twins . langerhans cells histiocytosis , one of a group of histiocytosis syndromes characterized by langerhans cell infiltration , has many clinical manifestations . in the past 30 years , numerous cases of presumed letterer-siwe disease , the acute multiorgan variant , have been reported in twins and siblings . only recently has the histiocyte society established a criterion for a " definitive diagnosis " of langerhans cell histiocytosis -- the presence of birbeck granules within the cells of the histiocytic infiltrate . we report the fatal outcome of langerhans cell histiocytosis in monozygotic twin infants . there is no satisfactory explanation why langerhans cell histiocytosis occurs concurrently in twins . we suggest that cytokines may provide an endogenous signal that triggers the pathologic proliferation of langerhans cells . 
isotretinoin for refractory lupus erythematosus . we describe six patients with cutaneous manifestations of lupus erythematosus who were treated with isotretinoin , 1 mg/kg/day . in each case the cutaneous lesions had proved resistant to systemic corticosteroids and antimalarial therapy . treatment with isotretinoin resulted in rapid clinical improvement in all cases . recurrences were similarly rapid when the drug was discontinued . side effects were minimal and easily controlled by adjustments in dose or by the use of lubricants . 
unfading acral microlivedo . a discrete marker of thrombotic skin disease associated with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome . small erythematous or cyanotic lesions on the hands and feet of four patients with antiphospholipid antibodies are described . these discrete lesions outline capillaries and do not disappear when pressure is applied . the histologic features are identical to those described in skin thrombotic syndrome associated with antiphospholipid antibodies , that is , microthrombi in dermal vessels without inflammation . in addition to indicating antiphospholipid antibodies in apparently healthy patients , this sign could be a marker of risk for large-vessel thrombosis . 
cutaneous manifestations in patients with essential thrombocythemia . in a retrospective study of 268 patients with essential thrombocythemia , related cutaneous manifestations were found in 58 ( 22 % ) . in 27 cases ( 10 % ) the related skin lesions were present at the time of the primary diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia . hematomas , ecchymoses , petechiae , or purpura occurred in 24 ( 41 % ) of the 58 patients . fifteen patients ( 26 % ) had erythromelalgia , in 11 of whom it was the initial complaint . livedo reticularis , recurrent superficial thrombophlebitis , ischemic complications with gangrene , leg ulcers , or ulcers on the toes were other manifestations . urticaria occurred in two patients , and raynaud 's phenomenon and necrotizing vasculitis were each observed in one patient . platelet function may be abnormal , and this was found in 13 of 19 patients studied , 9 of whom had spontaneous platelet aggregation . knowledge of the cutaneous manifestations in essential thrombocythemia may lead to its earlier detection . prompt diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia is important because treatment may prevent severe hemorrhagic or thrombotic events . 
round fingerpad sign : an early sign of scleroderma . we describe a clinical skin sign in scleroderma termed round fingerpad sign . this term refers to disappearance of the peaked contour on fingerpads and replacement with a hemisphere-like fingertip contour ; this change is especially apparent on the ring fingers . a positive round fingerpad sign was found in 72 of 72 ring fingers in 36 patients with progressive systemic sclerosis in 69 of 72 ring fingers in patients with mixed connective tissue disease , and in 24 of 24 ring fingers of patients with raynaud 's phenomenon and sclerodactyly . in contrast , a negative round fingerpad sign was seen in 240 of 240 fingers in normal women ( controls ) . the high sensitivity of this sign is noteworthy . a positive round fingerpad was seen in sign not only typical scleroderma patients but also in groups with less severe skin sclerosis ( i.e. , in those patients with mixed connective tissue disease or those with raynaud 's phenomenon and sclerodactyly ) . the sign is a new and useful clinical marker for the early diagnosis of scleroderma . 
lobulated intradermal nevus . report of three cases . we report the cases of three patients with lobulated intradermal nevi . biopsy specimens showed similar findings , that is , fatty infiltration within nests of nevus cells , neuroid differentiation of nevus cells , and dermal fibrosis . our cases probably represent an unusual form of regressing melanocytic nevus . 
grafting of venous leg ulcers . an intraindividual comparison between cultured skin equivalents and full-thickness skin punch grafts . skin equivalents that consisted of a noncontracted collagen gel populated with allogeneic fibroblasts and covered with autologous cultured keratinocytes were used for grafting venous leg ulcers . the results were compared in the same patient with those obtained with a routinely used standard method of grafting with autologous full-thickness punch grafts . the skin equivalents and the punch grafts were grafted successfully in four of five patients . the median healing time of ulcers grafted with skin equivalents was 18 days whereas that of ulcers covered with punch grafts was 15 days . the cosmetic appearance of the skin equivalent-grafted ulcers was better than that of the punch-grafted ulcers . 
treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum with cyclosporine : results in seven patients . the mainstay of therapy for pyoderma gangrenosum has been corticosteroids , but many patients respond poorly . during the past 2 years we have treated seven patients who had pyoderma gangrenosum with cyclosporine after their condition proved resistant to conventional therapy . no evidence of permanent toxicity from cyclosporine was detected and treatment with other immunosuppressive agents was discontinued in five of seven cases . tuberculosis was reactivated in one patient . three patients had a remission , three had an intermediate response , and one did not respond . these results indicate that cyclosporine is useful in the treatment of patients with refractory pyoderma gangrenosum and suggest an immune mechanism in the pathogenesis of this disorder . 
porokeratoses : immunohistochemical , light and electron microscopic evaluation . punch biopsy specimens of 14 patients with porokeratosis of mibelli ( n = 1 ) , disseminated superficial porokeratosis ( n = 6 ) , disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis ( n = 4 ) , porokeratosis plantaris , palmaris et disseminata ( n = 2 ) , and punctate porokeratosis ( n = 1 ) were obtained for light and electron microscopy for evaluation of possible differences between these clinical variants . langerhans cells in close contact with early degenerating keratinocytes could be observed in the epidermis . to study the cellular composition of the epidermal inflammatory infiltrate immunohistochemistry was performed . these studies demonstrated that the predominant cell type in these infiltrates are helper t cells , intermingled with leu-6 + langerhans cells . despite the clinical variation and possible different etiologic or triggering mechanisms , the immunohistochemical and morphologic changes in all types of porokeratosis are the same and seem to represent a uniform reaction pattern . 
pyoderma gangrenosum followed by subcorneal pustular dermatosis in a patient with iga paraproteinemia . six months after the occurrence of pyoderma gangrenosum , subcorneal pustular dermatosis developed in a 60-year-old woman . the patient 's serum was found to contain an iga-lambda paraprotein . although similar cases have been reported , this case is unique in that a distinct episode of pyoderma gangrenosum was followed by subcorneal pustular dermatosis . 
a syndrome characterized by nodular eosinophilic infiltration of the skin and immunoglobulin isotype imbalance . a 9-year-old boy had recurrent acute , plaquelike , nodular infiltrations with overlying vesicles and bullae of the face and right hand . histologically , the lesions consisted of a perivascular and periadnexal lymphohistiocytic infiltrate with many eosinophils . the lesions responded to dapsone therapy . laboratory studies revealed blood eosinophilia , hyperimmunoglobulinemias e and g4 , and hypoimmunoglobulinemias m and g1-3 , which normalized after treatment . the patient 's immune deviation is consistent with a transient imbalance of lymphokine production in helper t cells . 
trichothiodystrophy with chronic neutropenia and mild mental retardation . trichothiodystrophy is a feature of several diseases that consist of characteristic hair shaft abnormalities and a wide spectrum of other developmental defects . detection of sulfur-deficient hairs identifies this disorder and separates it from other similar ectodermal dysplasias with normal sulfur content . detection of low sulfur hair syndrome is also important for genetic counseling , because the disease appears to be an autosomal recessive trait . we report a patient with chronic neutropenia , mild mental retardation , and low sulfur content in hair . our case expands the spectrum of disorders associated with trichothiodystrophy . 
perioperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery -- i : incidence and severity during the 4 day perioperative period . the study of perioperative ischemia ( spi ) research group . to determine the incidence and characteristics of perioperative myocardial ischemia , the electrocardiographic ( ecg ) changes consistent with ischemia during the 4 day perioperative period were documented and characterized in 100 patients with or at risk for coronary artery disease undergoing noncardiac surgery . using continuous two channel ecg monitoring ( leads cc5 and cm5 ) , the frequency and severity of ecg ischemic episodes defined by st segment depression greater than or equal to 1 mm or elevation greater than or equal to 2 mm during the preoperative ( up to 2 days ) , intraoperative and early postoperative ( first 2 days ) periods were compared . preoperatively , 28 patients ( 28 % ) exhibited 105 episodes of ischemia ; intraoperatively , 27 patients exhibited 39 episodes and postoperatively , 42 patients exhibited 187 episodes . there was no difference between the pre - and intraoperative episode characteristics . however , postoperative ischemic episodes were the most severe . the mean st change was 1.5 , 2 and 2.6 mm for pre - , intra - and postoperative episodes , respectively ( p less than 0.0001 postoperative versus pre - or intraoperative ) ; duration of ischemic episodes was 69 , 45 and 207 min , respectively ( p less than 0.005 postoperative versus preoperative , p less than 0.001 versus intraoperative ) and area under the st curve was 88 , 74 and 383 mm.min ( p less than 0.009 postoperative versus preoperative , p less than 0.005 versus intraoperative ) . ninety-four percent of all postoperative ischemic episodes were silent ; 80 % of all episodes occurred without acute change ( + / - 20 % of control ) in heart rate and 77 % of intraoperative episodes occurred without acute change in blood pressure . 
perioperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery -- ii : incidence and severity during the 1st week after surgery . the study of perioperative ischemia ( spi ) research group . because of the importance of postoperative myocardial ischemia and because substantial physiologic changes can occur for prolonged periods postoperatively , the incidence , severity and temporal course of myocardial ischemia were studied in 100 high risk patients during the 1st week after major noncardiac surgery . electrocardiographic ( ecg ) changes consistent with ischemia were continuously monitored using ambulatory solid state ecg in the 100 patients with or at risk for coronary artery disease . ischemic episodes were defined as reversible st segment depression greater than or equal to 1 mm or elevation greater than or equal to 2 mm above the baseline value , with the baseline adjusted for respiratory and positional variation and temporal drift . all ischemic episodes were confirmed by three independent blinded investigators using hard-copy recordings . total ecg monitoring time was 10,445 h. twenty-seven patients ( 27 % ) developed 437 episodes of ischemia during the 1st week after surgery . the total duration of ischemia was 18,658 min , or 1.8 min of ischemia/h monitored . ischemia was most severe during the early ( days 0 to 3 ) versus late ( days 4 to 7 ) postoperative period : 284 versus 153 episodes ; 2.2 versus 1.2 min of ischemia/h . the greatest severity occurred on postoperative day 3 : 109 episodes , 3.4 min of ischemia/h monitored , 1.5 mm mean st change and 130 min mean duration . however , in 8 % of patients , severe episodes also occurred late : postoperative day 6 = 44 episodes , 1.7 min of ischemia/h monitored , 1.3 mm mean st change ( 59 % greater than or equal to 2 mm ) and 92 min mean duration . most ischemic episodes ( 57 % ) were associated with tachycardia . 
influence of right bundle branch block on short - and long-term survival after acute anterior myocardial infarction the impact of right bundle branch block on long-term prognosis after anterior wall myocardial infarction is unclear . in 932 patients with q wave anterior infarction , the short - and long-term prognostic significance of the presence of right bundle branch block was analyzed . compared with 754 patients without block , 178 patients with right bundle branch block after myocardial infarction showed an increased incidence of left ventricular failure ( 72 % versus 52 % , p less than 0.001 ) and increased in-hospital ( 32 % versus 8 % , p less than 0.001 ) and 1 year after hospital discharge ( 17 % versus 7 % , p less than 0.001 ) cardiac mortality rates . the presence of right bundle branch block was an independent predictor of increased in-hospital and 1-year mortality when entered in a multivariate analysis . however , the absence of left ventricular failure identified a subgroup of patients with right bundle branch block with low in-hospital ( 4 % ) and 1 year postdischarge ( 5 % ) cardiac mortality rates comparable with those of patients with neither failure nor right bundle branch block ( 1.7 % and 4.8 % , respectively ) . in the presence of left ventricular failure , patients with associated right bundle branch block had higher in-hospital ( 43 % versus 14 % , p less than 0.01 ) and 1 year postdischarge ( 24 % versus 9 % , p less than 0.01 ) cardiac mortality rates than those of patients with failure but no right bundle branch block . thus , the presence of right bundle branch block after anterior myocardial infarction is an independent marker of poor prognosis . 
effect of abrupt mitral regurgitation after balloon valvuloplasty on myocardial load and performance . the concept that mitral regurgitation masks myocardial dysfunction by reducing afterload and augmenting ejection performance has not been well established in humans . the effect of abruptly produced mitral regurgitation on left ventricular loading and performance was therefore evaluated in five patients who developed this complication after an otherwise successful percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty . mitral valve area by gorlin formula calculated with forward flow increased from 0.92 + / - 0.14 to 2.75 + / - 0.82 cm2 . mean left atrial pressure did not decrease ( 19 + / - 4 to 19 + / - 6 mm hg ) . the size of the left atrial v wave relative to mean left atrial pressure ( peak v - mean left atrial pressure ) increased from 7 + / - 4 to 19 + / - 6 mm hg . angiographic mitral regurgitation increased from 0 + or 1 + to greater than 3 + in each patient and regurgitant fraction increased from 0.23 + / - 0.11 to 0.55 + / - 0.09 ( p less than 0.01 ) . end-diastolic volume increased modestly from 148 + / - 15 to 159 + / - 15 ml ( p = ns ) . heart rate increased from 54 + / - 5 to 71 + / - 8 beats/min ( p less than 0.05 ) , which may have prevented further increases in preload by shortening the filling period . end-systolic stress decreased by 32 % from 277 + / - 34 to 188 + / - 52 kdyn/cm2 ( p less than 0.01 ) as a result of a 25 % decrease in end-systolic pressure from 121 + / - 8 to 91 + / - 7 mm hg and a 16 % decrease in end-systolic volume from 67 + / - 13 to 56 + / - 8 ml ( p = ns ) . 
morphologic comparison of patients with mitral valve prolapse who died suddenly with patients who died from severe valvular dysfunction or other conditions . clinical and necropsy findings are described in 56 patients with mitral valve prolapse : 15 patients , aged 16 to 69 years ( mean 39 ) , died suddenly and mitral valve prolapse was the only cardiac condition found at necropsy ( hereafter called isolated mitral valve prolapse ) ; the remaining 41 patients had other conditions that were capable of being fatal . of the latter 41 patients , 7 , aged 17 to 59 years ( mean 45 ) , had associated congenital heart disease , and 34 patients , aged 17 to 70 years ( mean 52 ) , had no associated congenital cardiac abnormalities . compared with the 34 patients without associated congenital heart disease and with nonmitral valve prolapse conditions capable in themselves of being fatal , the 15 patients who died suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse were younger ( mean age 39 + / - 17 versus 52 + / - 15 years ; p = 0.01 ) , more often women ( 67 % versus 26 % ; p = 0.008 ) and had a lower frequency of mitral regurgitation ( 7 % versus 38 % ; p = 0.02 ) . the 15 patients dying suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse also were less likely to have evidence of ruptured chordae tendineae ( 29 % versus 67 % ; p = 0.04 ) . the frequency of increased heart weight ( 67 % versus 59 % ) , a dilated mitral valve anulus ( 80 % versus 81 % ) , a dilated tricuspid valve anulus ( 17 % versus 17 % ) , an elongated anterior mitral leaflet ( 86 % versus 54 % ) , an elongated posterior mitral leaflet ( 79 % versus 77 % ) and fibrous endocardial plaque under the posterior mitral leaflet ( 73 % versus 63 % ) was similar between the two groups . the severity of the prolapse ( mild 20 % versus 11 % ; moderate 27 % versus 58 % ; severe 53 % versus 32 % ) also was similar between the two groups . thus , persons with mitral valve prolapse dying suddenly without another recognized condition tend to be relatively young women without mitral regurgitation . 
sinus node-atrioventricular node isolation : long-term results with the " corridor " operation for atrial fibrillation the " corridor " operation is designed to restore sinus rhythm to patients with atrial fibrillation by electrically isolating the sinus node , a band of atrial tissue and the atrioventricular ( av ) node from the remaining atrial tissue . nine patients with drug-refractory atrial fibrillation underwent this operation ; four patients had chronic atrial fibrillation and five had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation ; the mean duration of symptoms was 12 + / - 8 years . patient ages ranged from 25 to 68 years ( mean 48 + / - 12 ) . at preoperative electrophysiologic study , no patient had evidence of an accessory av pathway or av node reentry . sinus node recovery time could not be determined in five patients because of recurrent atrial fibrillation during or before programmed stimulation . at operation the corridor of atrial tissue connecting the sinus and av nodes was successfully isolated from the remaining left and right atrial tissue in all patients . one patient required early reoperation for recurrent atrial fibrillation before hospital discharge . at the predischarge electrophysiologic study , the corridor remained isolated in all patients except for one patient who had intermittent conduction between the corridor and excluded right atrium . one patient had nonsustained atrial fibrillation and one had atrial tachycardia evident in the corridor . atypical av node reentry of uncertain significance was induced in one other patient . over a total follow-up of 191 patient months ( mean 21 + / - 20 ) , seven patients remained free of atrial fibrillation . two patients had recurrent atrial fibrillation , which in one patient was effectively controlled by a single antiarrhythmic agent . a permanent pacemaker was implanted in four patients for sinus node dysfunction . 
acute biologic response to excimer versus thermal laser angioplasty in experimental atherosclerosis . vascular injury and platelet accumulation after balloon angioplasty are two potentially important triggers of the process of restenosis that may be minimized by the use of laser energy to ablate atherosclerotic plaque . the type of laser most suitable to achieve these goals remains unknown . accordingly , angiographic and histologic studies and quantitative platelet deposition analysis were performed on 27 atherosclerotic rabbit iliac arteries randomized to treatment with excimer laser or thermal laser angioplasty . excimer laser angioplasty was achieved with 35 to 40 mj/mm2 of 308 nm xenon chloride irradiation delivered through a 4.5 f catheter made of 13 concentrically arranged 200 microns fiber optics , at a repetition rate of 25 to 30 hz and a pulse duration of 135 ns ; thermal laser angioplasty was achieved with a 1.7 mm metal probe heated with 10 w of continuous wave argon laser energy . the baseline and post-laser luminal diameters of excimer laser-treated vessels ( 0.92 + / - 0.28 and 1.56 + / - 0.48 mm , respectively ) were similar to those observed in thermal laser-treated vessels ( 1.05 + / - 0.44 and 1.61 + / - 0.41 mm , respectively ) . perforation occurred in 4 ( 29 % ) of 14 thermal laser-treated arteries and in 0 of 13 excimer laser-treated arteries ( p = 0.04 ) ; spasm was observed in only 1 thermal laser-treated vessel . on the basis of a quantitative histologic grading scheme ( damage scores of 0 to 4 ) , greater degrees of injury were measured in thermal versus excimer laser-treated vessels ( 2.4 + / - 1.0 versus 1.3 + / - 0.4 , p = 0.009 ) . 
smooth muscle cell proliferation and restenosis after stand alone coronary excimer laser angioplasty it has been shown that coronary excimer laser angioplasty can remove atherosclerotic intracoronary tissue . stand alone coronary excimer laser angioplasty was successfully performed in a 53 year old white man with 90 % stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery and exertional angina ( canadian cardiovascular society class iii ) . the lesion was reduced to a 30 % residual stenosis with use of a 1.2 mm and subsequently a 1.8 mm diameter laser catheter . early follow-up angiography 24 h later revealed persistent patency and unchanged lesion diameter of the target vessel . the patient was free of symptoms during the 2 month follow-up period , but died suddenly while playing in a tennis tournament 63 days after the procedure . postmortem histologic examination revealed 80 % restenosis at the lesion site without plaque disruption or thrombosis . specific staining of the histologic specimen for smooth muscle cells using alpha-actin revealed significant smooth muscle cell proliferation at the site of coronary excimer laser angioplasty . however , most of the vessel narrowing appeared to be due to underlying fibrotic plaque as a result of insufficient tissue ablation . this was probably related to the size of the currently available catheters , which are too small to create a large channel . 
' two-stage turbinectomy ' : sequestration of the inferior turbinate following submucosal diathermy . submucous diathermy of the inferior turbinates is a widely practised procedure . three cases are presented in which surgery was complicated by avascular necrosis of the turbinate bone . each patient required a debridement procedure before healing and recovery of normal mucociliary function could take place . 
attachment of bacteria to tonsillar epithelium during acute tonsillitis . epithelial cells were scraped from the tonsillar surfaces of 15 patients with current acute tonsillitis ( at ) and of 15 individually matched healthy persons . the cellular mixture was stained with acridine orange and bacteria seen to be attached to the epithelial cells under the fluorescent microscope were calculated . conventional bacterial culturing was also performed simultaneously . significantly more bacteria were attached to epithelial cells from the at group than from the controls ( greater than 10 attached bacteria per cell p = 0.0103 , greater than 50 attached bacteria per cell p = 0.0212 ) . in vivo determination of bacteria attached to epithelial cells offers prospects of gaining a better understanding of the aetiopathogenesis of acute tonsillitis . 
ototoxicity of cis-platinum and its relationship to eye colour . the following hypothesis is presented : that the susceptibility of an individual patient to hearing loss as a result of cis-platinum administration can be predicted on the basis of eye colour . the rationale is that the melanin content of the inner ears is related to that of the eyes ; dark eyes contain more melanin than light-coloured eyes ; and melanin causes the accumulation of the ototoxic drug within the inner ear . hence those with dark eyes will suffer greater damage to the hearing than those with pale eyes . an investigation that confirmed this hypothesis is reported . in addition to cochlear damage there is a significant likelihood of damage to the auditory nerve as a result of the treatment . 
idiopathic and symptomatic trigeminal pain . the trigeminal reflexes ( corneal reflex , blink reflex , masseter inhibitory periods , jaw-jerk ) and far field scalp potentials ( nerve , root , brainstem , subcortical ) evoked by percutaneous infraorbital stimulation were recorded in 30 patients with " idiopathic " trigeminal neuralgia ( itn ) and 20 with " symptomatic " trigeminal pain ( stp ) : seven postherpetic neuralgia , five multiple sclerosis , four tumour , two vascular malformation , one tolosa-hunt syndrome , and one traumatic fracture . all the patients with stp and two of those with itn had trigeminal reflex abnormalities ; 80 % of patients with stp and 30 % of those with itn had evoked potential abnormalities . the results indicate that 1 ) trigeminal reflexes and evoked potentials are both useful in the examination of patients with trigeminal pain , and in cases secondary to specific pathologies provide 100 % sensitivity ; 2 ) in " symptomatic " and " idiopathic " paroxysmal pain the primary lesion affects the afferent fibres in the proximal portion of the root or the intrinsic portion in the pons ; 3 ) primary sensory neurons of the a-beta fibre group are involved in both paroxysmal and constant pain , but in the latter the damage is far more severe . 
vigabatrin : rational treatment for chronic epilepsy . vigabatrin is a selective , irreversible suicide inhibitor of gaba transaminase and thus increases brain and csf gaba . in 33 adult patients with long standing refractory epilepsy on treatment with one or two standard anti-convulsant drugs , the addition of vigabatrin up to 3g daily for eight weeks was associated with a 48.2 % reduction in seizure frequency . twenty patients who had exhibited a 50 % or more reduction in frequency of one or more seizure types entered an eight week double-blind placebo controlled phase . patients on vigabatrin maintained a 54.7 % reduction of seizure frequency , whereas those on placebo showed an 18.6 % increase in seizure frequency , a highly significant difference between the two groups . in the open phase , seven patients were withdrawn due to unacceptable and reversible adverse events . the commonest side effects were drowsiness , depression and mood instability , and headaches . vigabatrin is a potentially valuable new treatment for chronic epilepsy , especially partial seizures with or without secondary generalisation . 
correlation between essential tremor and migraine headache . the relationship between essential tremor ( et ) and migraine was investigated in a prospective study . in a group of 74 et patients 36.5 % had migraine compared with 17.7 % of 102 control subjects without tremor . in a group of 58 patients with migraine 17.2 % had et compared with 1.2 % of 85 controls without migraine . the prevalence of et in migraine controls was greater than controls without migraine ( 22 % compared with 1 % ; p = 0.002 ) . it is concluded that there is an association between essential tremor and migraine . 
differential impairment of semantic and episodic memory in alzheimer 's and huntington 's diseases : a controlled prospective study . a controlled prospective study compared the performance of 14 patients with dementia of alzheimer type ( dat ) and 14 patients with huntington 's disease ( hd ) , who were matched for overall level of dementia , on a battery of semantic and episodic memory tests . the dat patients were significantly more impaired on measures of delayed verbal and figural episodic memory , and in addition showed a more rapid rate of decline on tests which depend upon the integrity of semantic knowledge ( naming , number information , similarities and category fluency ) . in contrast , the hd patients were significantly worse , and showed a more rapid decline on the letter fluency test , a task especially sensitive to deficiencies in retrieval . the hd patients were also more impaired than dat patients on a vocabulary test and on copying geometric figures . the observed double dissociations offer compelling evidence that aetiologically distinct forms of dementing illness result in different patterns of cognitive impairment . 
hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis . a case is presented of 14 year old female with hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis . evidence of hypothalamic obesity included 1 ) acute hyperphagia and weight gain , 2 ) neuroradiology showed hydrocephalus with focal enlargement of the third ventricle , 3 ) endocrinological studies revealed hyperinsulinaemia and impaired growth hormone ( gh ) response to arginine , but normal gh response to growth hormone-releasing factor ( grf ) and 4 ) torkildsen 's ventriculo-cisternal shunting resulted in improvement in hyperphagia and obesity . 
a cost-minimization study of cancer patients requiring a narcotic infusion in hospital and at home . we conducted a retrospective , non-randomized , cost-minimization study , from the perspective of the ministry of health , to compare the cost of managing cancer patients who required narcotic infusions , in hospital and at home . our medical costs averaged $ 369.72 per inpatient day and $ 150.24 per outpatient day ( saving $ 219.48 per diem , 1988 canadian dollars ) , while narcotic costs were the same for any given patient in both settings . sensitivity analysis showed that no reasonable changes in the quantity and cost of services reduced our savings by more than 50 % . during incremental analysis , savings increased as more outpatient days were managed by our centre , from $ 0.00 for 318 days , to more than $ 500,000 for over 2000 days per annum . as this program has been extremely cost effective and preferred by our patients , other hospitals and central funding agencies might consider establishing a regional outpatient narcotic infusion program to reduce their costs . 
skin reflectance pulse oximetry : in vivo measurements from the forearm and calf . this study describes the results from a series of human experiments demonstrating the ability to measure arterial hemoglobin oxygen saturation ( sao2 ) from the forearm and calf using a reflectance pulse oximeter sensor . a special optical reflectance sensor that includes a heating element was interfaced to a temperature controller and a commercial data-scope accusat pulse oximeter that was adapted for this study to perform as a reflectance pulse oximeter . the reflectance pulse oximeter sensor was evaluated in a group of 10 healthy adult volunteers during steady-state hypoxia . hypoxia was induced by gradually lowering the inspired fraction of oxygen in the breathing gas mixture from 100 to 12 % . simultaneous sao2 measurements obtained from the forearm and calf with two identical reflectance pulse oximeters were compared with sao2 values measured by a finger sensor that was interfaced to a standard datascope accusat transmittance pulse oximeter . the equations for the best-fitted linear regression lines between the percent reflectance , spo2 ( r ) , and transmittance , spo2 ( t ) , values in the range between 73 and 100 % were spo2 ( r ) = -7.06 + 1.09 spo2 ( t ) for the forearm ( n = 91 , r = 0.95 ) and spo2 ( r ) = 7.78 + 0.93 spo2 ( t ) for the calf ( n = 93 , r = 0.88 ) . the regression analysis of the forearm data revealed a mean + / - sd error of 2.47 + / - 1.66 % ( sao2 = 90-100 % ) , 2.35 + / - 2.45 % ( sao2 = 80-89 % ) , and 2.42 + / - 1.20 % ( sao2 = 70-79 % ) . the corresponding regression analysis of the calf data revealed a mean + / - sd error of 3.36 + / - 3.06 % ( sao2 = 90-100 % ) , 3.45 + / - 4.12 % ( sao2 = 80-89 % ) , and 2.97 + / - 2.75 % ( sao2 = 70-79 % ) . 
abnormal growth patterns and adult short stature in 115 long-term survivors of childhood leukemia . significant growth retardation was found in 115 survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) who had completed their growth . these children were diagnosed before 12 years of age and treated on four protocols in a single institution ; all received either cranial ( n = 78 ) or craniospinal ( n = 37 ) prophylactic irradiation . patients ' heights at diagnosis were within expected ranges , but final heights were greater than or equal to 1 sd below population means in 74 % of cases and greater than or equal to 2 sd in 37 % . effects on growth were more pronounced for children who had received craniospinal irradiation , but decrements were also significant in the cranial irradiation group , with adult heights greater than or equal to 2 sd below population norms in 32 % . growth retardation was significantly greater ( p less than .0001 ) in children who had earlier disease onset . growth deceleration occurred not only during chemotherapy but during a later period that followed an interval of improved growth in many cases . thus , late decrements in growth may be missed in studies that do not follow patients until they have attained final heights . these findings indicate that abnormally short stature among survivors of all merits further clinical and research attention . 
occurrence of hypercalcemia and leukocytosis with cachexia in a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla in athymic nude mice : a novel experimental model of three concomitant paraneoplastic syndromes . hypercalcemia and leukocytosis may occur in conjunction as paraneoplastic syndromes associated with malignant disease . here we describe a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla that was associated with hypercalcemia and leukocytosis , and also cachexia . the primary tumor was surgically removed and established in permanent cell culture . when either primary tumors or cultured tumor cells were inoculated into nude mice , the nude mice developed the same paraneoplastic syndromes as those which occurred in the patient from whom the tumor was originally derived . the plasma calcium was increased two and one-half-fold and the wbc count 30-fold , and the body weight was decreased by 45 % in tumor-bearing animals . each of these paraneoplastic syndromes was alleviated by surgical excision of the tumor , indicating that the paraneoplastic syndromes were due to a factor or factors produced by the primary tumor . the development of each of these paraneoplastic syndromes in nude mice correlated positively with the other two syndromes . we examined the organs of tumor-bearing mice and found striking histopathologic abnormalities in the bones , spleen , and liver , but no infiltration with tumor cells . the bones showed marked evidence of osteoclastic bone resorption . this model of a human tumor associated with the hypercalcemia-leukocytosis paraneoplastic syndrome , together with cachexia , should make it possible to determine the mechanisms responsible for these paraneoplastic syndromes and their relationship to each other . 
high risk of recurrent stroke after discontinuance of five to twelve years of transfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell disease . although long-term transfusion therapy is at least 90 % effective in preventing recurrent strokes after an initial cerebrovascular accident in patients with sickle cell disease , it is unknown how long transfusion therapy should be continued . to address this question , we prospectively discontinued transfusions in 10 patients with sickle cell disease whose median duration of transfusion therapy after an initial stroke was 9 1/2 years ( range 5 to 12 years ) . before the transfusions were discontinued , patients were examined by cerebral angiography , magnetic resonance imaging of the head , neuropsychologic testing , electroencephalography , and a complete neurologic examination . within 12 months after transfusion therapy was stopped , 5 of 10 patients had had an ischemic event . three events caused relatively mild deficits in the same areas as those originally affected . two were associated with massive intracranial hemorrhage , including one on the contralateral side of original involvement . an additional patient died suddenly of unknown causes . of the four remaining patients , three declined to resume transfusion and are relatively well at greater than or equal to 18 months after therapy was stopped . the studies performed before transfusions were stopped were not predictive of recurrent stroke . the risk of recurrent cerebrovascular accident in this group was significantly greater than the estimated risk of 10 % in patients who are receiving long-term transfusion therapy ( p = 0.002 ) . this adverse outcome suggests that patients with sickle cell disease who have had a stroke must receive long-term transfusion indefinitely or a suitable therapeutic alternative must be devised . 
fundoplication and gastrostomy in familial dysautonomia . fundoplication with gastrostomy has become a frequent treatment for patients with familial dysautonomia , so we evaluated the use of both procedures in 65 patients . although patients differed widely in presenting signs and age , from 5 weeks to 40 years , gastroesophageal reflux was documented in 95 % of patients by cineradiography or ph monitoring . panendoscopy was a useful adjunct . preoperative symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux included vomiting , respiratory infections , and exaggerated autonomic dysfunction . severe oropharyngeal incoordination frequently coexisted and resulted in misdirected swallows with aspiration , dependence on gavage feedings , or poor weight gain and dehydration . follow-up after surgical correction ranged from 3 months to 11 years ; 55 patients ( 85 % ) were available for a 1-year postoperative assessment . we had no instances of surgical death . the long-term mortality rate was 14 % , primarily related to severe preexisting respiratory disease . beyond the first postoperative year , 30 patients had pneumonia attributed to continued aspiration , exacerbation of preexisting lung disease , or recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux . of 11 patients who vomited postoperatively , six had recurrence of reflux . recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux was documented in eight patients ( 12 % ) , and we revised the fundoplication in three patients . the number of patients with cyclic crises was reduced from 18 to 7 ; retching replaced overt vomiting in all but two of these seven patients , neither of whom had recurrence of reflux . because oropharyngeal incoordination was prominent , concomitant use of gastrostomy and an antireflux procedure was especially effective in the treatment of younger patients with familial dysautonomia , before the development of severe respiratory disease . despite the development of severe morning nausea in 15 patients , the combination procedure resulted in significantly improved nutritional status , decreased vomiting , and decreased respiratory problems . appropriate use of gastrostomy feedings also contributed to success of the operation . the generally good outcome of fundoplication with gastrostomy confirms the benefit of this procedure in familial dysautonomia . 
is it correct to correct ? developmental milestones in 555 " normal " preterm infants compared with term infants . to determine whether correction for preterm birth should be applied during developmental assessment , we conducted a prospective national survey of very premature infants ( born at less than 32 weeks of gestation ) ; neurodevelopment in the first 2 years was studied with the dutch child health care developmental assessment . in 555 preterm children who had no evidence of handicap at 2 years of age , the age at which developmental milestones were reached was established . the results were compared with the results of the same assessment in dutch children born at term . during the first year , the development of the very premature children equaled the development of normal children when full correction was applied . at 2 years of age , development was equal to or better than normal children 's development without correction . we conclude that full correction for prematurity should be applied in the first year to avoid overreferral for developmental stimulation , whereas at 2 years of age correction is not necessary . 
decreased protein binding of salicylates in kawasaki disease . because patients with kawasaki disease have low serum concentrations of salicylates despite high doses , and because the free ( unbound ) drug is responsible for the pharmacologic effects of salicylates , we assessed salicylate protein binding in patients with kawasaki disease . during the acute phase of the disease , protein binding of salicylate in 36 children with kawasaki disease was 73 + / - 12 % , significantly lower than during the subacute phase ( 90.4 + / - 8.7 % ; p less than 0.0005 ) . mean serum albumin concentration was 29.2 + / - 6.4 gm/l during the acute phase and 36.7 + / - 7.8 gm/l during the subsequent subacute phase ( p less than 0.005 ) . salicylate protein binding was affected independently by both serum albumin and total salicylate levels . during the acute phase of kawasaki disease , children had an average twofold increase in free salicylate compared with normoalbuminemic control subjects . a nomogram has been devised to derive free salicylate levels from the known total salicylate and serum albumin concentrations . 
patient-controlled analgesia in children and adolescents : a randomized , prospective comparison with intramuscular administration of morphine for postoperative analgesia . a randomized , prospective trial of patient-controlled analgesia ( pca ) , that is , a method of analgesia administration involving a computer-driven pump activated by patients to receive small doses within defined limits was performed in 82 children and adolescents after major orthopedic surgery to compare ( 1 ) intramuscularly administered morphine , ( 2 ) pca morphine and ( 3 ) pca morphine with a low-dose continuous morphine infusion ( pca-plus ) . patients receiving pca and pca-plus had lower pain scores and greater satisfaction than patients receiving intramuscularly administered morphine . the three groups used equal amounts of morphine and most measures of recovery were identical in the groups . in particular , pca and pca-plus did not increase the incidence of opioid-related complications , and patients receiving pca-plus were less sedated than patients receiving intramuscular therapy . we conclude that pca and pca-plus are safe and effective methods of pain relief in children and adolescents after orthopedic surgery , are better accepted than intramuscular injections , and do not increase perioperative morbidity . 
radiotherapy alone versus combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy in nonresectable non-small-cell lung cancer : first analysis of a randomized trial in 353 patients . we report the results observed in a large , randomized study that compared the effects of radiotherapy alone ( the standard therapy ) with those of a combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in nonresectable squamous cell and large-cell lung carcinoma . the radiation dose was 65 gy in each group , and chemotherapy included vindesine , cyclophosphamide , cisplatin , and lomustine . in this study , 177 patients received radiotherapy alone ( group a ) , and 176 patients received the combined treatment ( group b ) . the 2-year survival rate was 14 % in group a and 21 % in group b ( p = .08 ) . the distant metastasis rate was significantly lower in group b ( p less than .001 ) . local control was poor in both groups ( 17 % and 15 % , respectively ) and remained the major problem . 
influence of preservation or perfusion of intraoperatively identified spinal cord blood supply on spinal motor evoked potentials and paraplegia after aortic surgery . permanent ligation of arteries supplying blood to the spinal cord in operations for aortic aneurysm can lead to spinal cord ischemia , which can result in either paraparesis or paraplegia . this report describes a rapid method of intraoperative identification of those arteries that supply the spinal cord by use of an intrathecal platinum electrode to detect hydrogen in solution that has been injected into the aortic ostia . preservation or perfusion of those identified arteries supplying the spinal cord may decrease the rate of postoperative neurologic complications . of 28 porcine experiments with postoperative observation for 24 hours , there were 3 initial pilot experiments in which saline saturated with hydrogen was injected into the temporarily cross-clamped aorta . twenty animals were then randomized to ( 1 ) preservation of only the vessels sequentially identified to supply blood to the spinal cord from t-13 to l-5 ( n = 10 ) ; ( 2 ) division of the vessels supplying the spinal cord ( n = 10 ) . a further five animals underwent perfusion experiments wherein the identified cord arteries were perfused by a shunt , the other nonsupply arteries were divided , and the aorta was kept clamped for 45 minutes . spinal motor evoked potentials were elicited with an intrathecal electrode and were highly sensitive for paralysis . paralysis occurred in 0/3 pilot ( p less than 0.013 vs division ) ; 8/10 division ; 1/10 preservation ( p less than 0.0017 vs division ) ; and perfusion 1/5 ( p less than 0.025 vs division ) . results of a pilot study in eight humans shows that the technique can be used to rapidly identify segmental arteries supplying the spinal cord , to determine if distal perfusion is supplying the spinal cord with blood flow , and if reattached segmental arteries are patent . 
cells derived from omental fat tissue and used for seeding vascular prostheses are not endothelial in origin . a study on the origin of epitheloid cells derived from omentum . the use of microvascular endothelial cells derived from omental tissue has been advocated to seed vascular grafts with autologous endothelial cells in high density . the purpose of our study was to evaluate the precise origin of these cells . therefore we have compared cellular characteristics of these cells with those of endothelial cells isolated by collagenase treatment of human umbilical veins . the omental cells were isolated from from omental tissue from four different patients by incubation in a collagenase-dispase solution . part of the material was processed by percoll density gradient centrifugation in an attempt to purify the isolates . cellular characteristics of both types of cells were determined by studying the morphologic features of the cells and by determining the presence of von willebrand factor , antigens en-4 and pal-e specific for endothelial cells , cytokeratins 8 and 18 , vimentin and desmin , and uptake of dii-acetylated low-density lipoprotein . epitheloid cells from omental tissue , isolated after collagenase treatment and either purified or nonpurified by percoll density gradient centrifugation , differed from human umbilical vein endothelial cells with respect to the presence of surface microvilli , the expression of von willebrand factor , en-4 and pal-e , and the presence of cytokeratins 8 and 18 and desmin . von willebrand factor ( in a granular staining pattern ) and the presence of en-4 and pal-e were only detected in human umbilical vein endothelial cells . vimentin was present in both cell types , whereas cytokeratins 8 and 18 and desmin were only present in cells derived from omentum . from these data we conclude that the so called microvascular endothelial cells from omentum are not endothelial but mesothelial in nature . 
subclavian artery to innominate vein fistula after insertion of a hemodialysis catheter . insertion of hemodialysis catheters for temporary use is now preferentially performed by percutaneous infraclavicular subclavian vein catheterization . this method involves passage of a stiff dilator and a peel-away sheath over a guide wire , and is usually carried out without fluoroscopy . for the most part this has proved to be a valuable and safe approach . however , a small incidence of major complications occurs , which needs to be emphasized . sixteen cases of arteriovenous fistulas between the subclavian artery or its branches and the subclavian vein have been reported so far in the literature . to date only one case of subclavian artery to innominate vein fistula has been reported . we report the second case with this complication and suggest possible preventive measures . 
popliteal artery aneurysms . long-term follow-up of aneurysmal disease and results of surgical treatment . the natural history of aneurysmal disease was analyzed in 50 patients who were treated for 71 popliteal aneurysms . no patients were lost to follow-up ( mean , 5.0 years ) . initially , 25 popliteal aneurysms ( 25/71 ; 35 % ) were treated nonsurgically , and 46 ( 46/71 ; 65 % ) were treated surgically . complications developed in 12 of the 21 asymptomatic popliteal aneurysms ( 57 % ) and in 2 of the 4 symptomatic popliteal aneurysms ( 50 % ) , which were treated nonsurgically . the probability of developing complications increased with time to 74 % within 5 years . when reconstruction of a popliteal aneurysm was performed , graft patency and foot salvage were 64 % and 95 % at 10 years , respectively . particularly acute arterial thromboembolism was a severe presenting complication . another important finding was the development of 23 arteriosclerotic aneurysms at other locations during follow-up in 16 patients ( 32 % ) . the probability of developing these new aneurysms increased to 49 % 10 years after repair of the initial popliteal aneurysm . the presence of multiple isolated aneurysms at the initial examination was the most significant risk factor limiting the survival of these patients . consequently patients at risk could be identified early . this study confirms the limb-threatening potential of popliteal aneurysms when left untreated . therefore prophylactic reconstructive surgery should be undertaken . moreover , this study demonstrates that patients with a popliteal artery aneurysm have an increased risk of new aneurysm formation , both in the popliteal artery and at other locations . therefore these patients should be followed and , in the event that new aneurysms develop , should be considered for elective reconstructive surgery to prevent limb-threatening or life-endangering complications . 
interval gangrene of the lower extremity : a complication of vascular surgery . interval gangrene , segmental ischemic necrosis proximal to a functioning distal anastomosis , is a rare complication after successful peripheral vascular reconstruction . previous reports have demonstrated the gravity of this event in that major limb amputation was required in all cases . two cases are presented to emphasize the need for maintaining segmental collateral circulation after successful distal extremity bypass . despite a satisfactory result after distal ( inframalleolar ) bypass of a popliteal aneurysm , one patient had progressive ischemic gangrene of the upper leg and eventually required amputation . the contralateral limb was successfully managed by distal ligation of the superficial femoral artery , which maintained collateral flow from the proximal superficial femoral artery to the knee and leg . the second patient required a microvascular free flap to replace tissue loss and provide vascular graft coverage after initial multiple bypass failures and a final successful remote reconstruction to the dorsal artery of the foot that excluded the popliteal-crural collateral network . patients with inadequate collateral circulation or disruption of the profundus or geniculate collateral pathways may require revascularization of sequential vascular beds . recognition of the potential for interval gangrene is essential since the likelihood of its occurrence will increase in proportion to the number of distal bypasses being performed for limb salvage . although adjunctive procedures will not completely eliminate the possibility of interval gangrene , awareness of this phenomenon with attention to the segmental collateral circulation can decrease the incidence of its occurrence . 
hemodynamic consequences of carotid-carotid bypass for innominate artery stenosis . the carotid-carotid cervical bypass is one surgical option for symptomatic atherosclerotic lesions of the innominate artery . controversy exists regarding the necessity of surgically excluding the innominate plaque from the cerebral circuit . a canine study was instituted to characterize the hemodynamic alterations that occur in the right common carotid artery proximal to the bypass graft , termed the critical segment . the direction of flow in the critical segment determines whether emboli originating in the innominate may be propelled cranially despite a patent bypass graft . six mongrel dogs underwent placement of an autogenous arterial crossover graft as a carotid-carotid bypass . a stenosis of the innominate artery was quantitatively altered , and an electromagnetic flowmeter measured the magnitude and direction of flow in the critical segment at three levels of diameter reduction in the innominate artery . for low-grade stenoses , flow in the critical segment was always prograde . for high-grade stenoses , the flow was always reversed . stenoses between 57 % and 67 % yielded flow values of 10 + / - 24 ml/min , and it was in this range that mean flow reversal was found to occur . even when the mean flow was near zero in the critical segment , flow was not stagnant but oscillated in antegrade and retrograde directions throughout the cardiac cycle . these data indicate that a carotid-carotid bypass causes complete flow reversal in the critical segment when there is high-grade stenosis in the innominate artery . theoretical analysis of the hemodynamic circuit indicated that arm exercise would augment retrograde flow in the critical segment . 
diagnosis of popliteal artery entrapment syndrome : the role of duplex scanning . the authors present a new diagnostic procedure to quickly and noninvasively diagnose the popliteal artery entrapment syndrome . a large personal experience on the surgical treatment of such a disease ( 29 cases in 22 patients ) allowed us to focus on the optimal diagnostic procedure useful to detect this problem at an early stage . the technique is based on continuous-wave doppler and duplex scanning studies done both in the resting state and during active contraction of the calf muscles . if compression of the popliteal artery occurs with contraction of the calf muscles , it will be detected by a decrease in flow . this finding will also direct the radiologist to obtain films when the maneuver is repeated . this makes it unlikely that the diagnosis will be missed . since july 1988 a total of 1212 patients were evaluated with continuous-wave doppler for suspected chronic ischemia . from this group 41 patients were selected to be studied again with the combined continuous-wave doppler and duplex scanning method for possible popliteal artery entrapment syndrome . two cases were discovered and verified by dynamic angiography guided by continuous-wave doppler and treated surgically . 
limitations of electroencephalographic monitoring in the detection of cerebral ischemia accompanying carotid endarterectomy . an analysis was undertaken of 458 consecutive carotid endarterectomies performed over 6 years with the patient under general anesthesia and with electroencephalographic monitoring . seventy patients ( 15 % ) had electroencephalographic changes suggestive of ischemia with carotid clamping and had shunts placed . ischemic encephalographic changes occurred in 26 % of patients with an occluded contralateral carotid artery , 21 % of patients with a prior stroke history , and 12 % of patients with no stroke history and a patent contralateral carotid artery . nineteen strokes ( 4.1 % ) , nine transient deficits ( 2.0 % ) , and one death ( 0.2 % ) occurred in the 458 endarterectomies in this experience . ten of the 19 strokes and five of nine transient deficits were immediately apparent when patients awoke from anesthesia . five of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all five patients with immediate transient deficits had no ischemic electroencephalographic changes during the procedure . two other patients with immediate strokes initially had ischemic electroencephalographic changes after carotid clamping that reversed with increased blood pressure or shunting . therefore 7 of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all 5 patients with immediate transient deficits had electroencephalographs unchanged from baseline at completion of the procedure , and thus deficits not manifest by operative electroencephalographic changes developed . our data do not support the tenet that electroencephalographic monitoring will always predict neurologic deficits accompanying carotid endarterectomy . 
blood contacts during surgical procedures operating room personnel are at risk for infection with blood-borne pathogens through blood contact . to describe the nature and frequency of blood contact and its risk factors , trained observers monitored a sample of operations performed by six surgical services at grady memorial hospital , atlanta , ga , for 6 months . in 62 ( 30.1 % ) of 206 operations , at least one blood contact was observed . of 1828 operating room person-procedures observed , 96 ( 5.3 % ) had 147 blood contacts ( 133 skin contacts [ 90 % ] , 10 percutaneous injuries [ 7 % ] , and four eye splashes [ 3 % ] ) . the mean number of blood contacts per 100 person-procedures was highest for surgeons ( 18.6 ) . the frequency of percutaneous injury was similar among surgeons and scrub staff ( mean , 1.2 per 100 worker-procedures for each group ) . risk factors for surgeons ' blood contacts were ( 1 ) performing a trauma , burn , or orthopedic emergency procedure ( odds ratio [ or ] , 4.1 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 2.0 to 8.7 ) ; ( 2 ) patient blood loss exceeding 250ml ( or , 2.1 ; 95 % ci , 1.2 to 3.7 ) ; and ( 3 ) being in the operating room longer than 1 hour ( or , 3.3 ; 95 % ci , 1.6 to 7.1 ) . of 110 blood contacts among surgeons , 81 ( 74 % ) were potentially preventable by additional barrier precautions , such as face shields and fluid-resistant gowns . twenty-one ( 84 % ) of 25 blood contacts among surgeons in procedures in which all three risk factors were present were potentially preventable by additional barriers . of 29 blood contacts among anesthesia and circulating personnel , 20 ( 69 % ) would have been prevented by glove use . for surgical procedures in which operating room personnel are at increased risk of blood contact , reevaluation of surgical technique , use of appropriate barrier precautions , and development of puncture-resistant glove materials are indicated . 
follow-up status of patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries and panic disorder . cardiology patients with normal coronary angiography demonstrate continuing and substantial social , health , and work disability . we hypothesized that the diagnosis of panic disorder would mark those for whom continuing disability is most likely . we interviewed 72 such patients at the time of their normal angiogram , and then again an average of 38 months later . those with panic disorder ( n = 36 ) demonstrated significantly more disability at follow-up than did the other study patients . we conclude that those patients with normal angiograms who have panic disorder are more disabled than those who do not have panic disorder . panic disorder in psychiatric samples has been shown to be highly treatable . therefore , early identification and treatment of panic disorder in this group is likely to minimize the suffering associated with this condition . 
exposing patients with chronic , stable , exertional angina to placebo periods in drug trials . because the safety of withholding standard therapy and enrolling patients with stable angina in placebo-controlled trials is not known , we identified all events leading to dropout from trials of 12 antianginal drugs submitted in support of new drug applications to the us food and drug administration . persons who dropped out of the trials were classified as cause due to adverse cardiovascular events or other causes without knowledge of drug assignment . there were 3161 subjects who entered any randomized , double-blind phase of placebo-controlled protocols ; 197 ( 6.2 % ) withdrew because of cardiovascular events . there was no difference in risk of adverse events between drug and placebo groups . a prospectively defined subgroup analysis showed that groups who received calcium antagonists were at an increased risk of dropout compared with placebo groups ( p = .04 ) , primarily because of a disproportionate number of adverse events in studies of one drug . in conclusion , there were few adverse experiences associated with short-term placebo use . withholding active treatment does not increase the risk of serious cardiac events . 
the effect of muscle-sparing versus standard posterolateral thoracotomy on pulmonary function , muscle strength , and postoperative pain . increased interest in alternative approaches to thoracotomy has developed because of the considerable morbidity associated with the standard posterolateral technique . we conducted a prospective , randomized , blinded study of 50 consecutive patients to compare postoperative pain , pulmonary function , shoulder strength , and range of shoulder motion between the standard posterolateral and the muscle sparing thoracotomy techniques . pulmonary function ( forced expiratory volume in 1 second and forced vital capacity ) , shoulder strength , and range of motion were measured preoperatively and at 1 week and 1 month postoperatively . pain was quantitated by postoperative narcotic requirements , the visual analogue scale , and the mcgill pain questionnaire . morbidity , mortality , and hospital stay were compared between the standard posterolateral and muscle-sparing techniques . there were no differences in postoperative pulmonary function , shoulder range of motion , extent of lung resection , surgical approach time , mortality , or hospital stay . there was significantly less postoperative pain in the muscle-sparing group . the narcotic requirement was less in the first 24 hours ( p = 0.0169 ) , and visual analogue scale scores were significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) throughout the first postoperative week . shoulder girdle strength was decreased at 1 week in the standard incision group whereas the strength was preserved with the muscle-sparing approach . muscle strength had returned to preoperative levels by 1 month in both groups . morbidity was identical in the two groups with the exception of postoperative seromas . the prevalence of seroma was 23 % in the muscle-sparing group and 0 % in the standard incision group ( p = 0.0125 ) . we have demonstrated that the muscle-sparing incision may be a reasonable alternative to the standard posterolateral approach . 
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation . i. summary of the current concepts of the mechanisms of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation . atrial fibrillation is a common arrhythmia that is frequently resistant to medical therapy and has no satisfactory surgical therapy . the development of an effective surgical procedure to treat atrial fibrillation has been hampered by the paucity of clinically relevant information on the basic mechanisms responsible for the arrhythmia . this paper summarizes the current concepts of the electrophysiologic abnormalities in atrial flutter and fibrillation . 
the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation . ii . intraoperative electrophysiologic mapping and description of the electrophysiologic basis of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation . computerized mapping of atrial fibrillation was performed in animals and man . to study atrial fibrillation in a systematic manner , we developed a clinically relevant experimental model of atrial fibrillation . chronic mitral regurgitation was created surgically in 25 dogs without opening the pericardium . after several months of chronic mitral regurgitation , the atria became enlarged and sustained atrial fibrillation could be induced by standard programmed electrical stimulation techniques . computerized isochronous activation maps of the atria were recorded during atrial fibrillation from 208 bipolar electrodes simultaneously . in a parallel study , human atrial fibrillation was mapped with a separate 160-channel intraoperative mapping system in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who were undergoing surgical correction of the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . the canine activation sequence maps demonstrated a spectrum of rhythm abnormalities ranging from simple atrial flutter to complex atrial fibrillation . they also showed that macroreentrant circuits within the atrial myocardium were responsible for the entire spectrum of arrhythmias . atrial reentry was also documented during human atrial fibrillation . all patients had nonuniform conduction around regions of bidirectional block in both atria resulting in multiple discrete wave fronts . in addition , six patients had a single reentrant circuit in the right atrium in which bidirectional block of the activation wave front occurred along the sulcus terminals between the venae cavae . the left atrium in all patients demonstrated multiple wave fronts and conduction block , but left atrial reentry could not be detected . both the experimental study and the clinical study demonstrated that multiple wave fronts , nonuniform conduction , bidirectional block , and large ( macroreentrant ) reentrant circuits occur during atrial fibrillation . the presence of macroreentrant circuits and the absence of either microreentrant circuits or evidence of atrial automaticity suggests that atrial fibrillation should be amenable to surgical ablation . 
emergency cardiopulmonary bypass support in patients with cardiac arrest . emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was instituted in 11 patients in cardiac arrest refractory to conventional resuscitation measures . emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support was used in five patients in whom cardiac arrest occurred as a result of a complication in the cardiac catheterization laboratory ( group 1 ) and in six other patients in cardiac arrest ( group ii ) . a 21f cannula and a 17f cannula were percutaneously inserted into the femoral vein and artery . flow rates of 3 to 5 l/min were achieved with restoration of mean arterial pressure to 70 mm hg ( range 50 to 75 ) . the status of all 11 patients was improved initially both clinically and hemodynamically with percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass . of the group ii patients , three had anatomy unsuitable for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary bypass grafting , could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary support , and died ; three of these patients had coronary artery bypass grafting and two survived . all five group i patients underwent successful coronary bypass grafting and survived . of the seven patients with anatomically correctable disease , all seven were discharged from the hospital . with conventional management nearly all seven of these patients would have died . nine of 11 patients underwent a cardiac operation and seven of the nine survived . the operative mortality rate was 22 % and the overall survival rate was 64 % . at follow-up ( mean 7 months ) , all seven patients are alive and six have resumed a normal and active life-style . in conclusion , emergency percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support is a powerful resuscitative tool that may stabilize the condition of patients in cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest to allow for definitive intervention . 
studies of controlled reperfusion after ischemia . xxiii . deleterious effects of simulated thrombolysis preceding simulated coronary artery bypass grafting with controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion . this study tests whether simulated thrombolysis before controlled reperfusion ( i.e. , simulated coronary artery bypass ) causes reperfusion injury that obviates the benefits of subsequent controlled reperfusion and results in unnecessary ventricular arrhythmias . fifteen dogs underwent acute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery . in 10 dogs we simulated thrombolysis after 1 hour of ischemia ( delivering 10 % to 15 % of control flow at 5 ml/min ) , followed 1 hour later by either normal blood reperfusion at systemic pressure ( to simulate percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ) in five dogs or regionally controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion on bypass in five others to simulate coronary bypass . in five dogs ischemia was prolonged to 2 hours , and the initial reperfusate was blood cardioplegic solution on total vented bypass ( to simulate primary coronary bypass ) . all hearts receiving simulated thrombolysis ( 100 % ) after 1 hour of ischemia had reperfusion-induced ventricular fibrillation . all hearts treated by simulated angioplasty recovered regional contractility ( 56 % of control systolic shortening ) , whereas there was no ( 0 % ) recovery of spontaneous contractility after subsequent blood cardioplegic reperfusion , and only two ( 40 % ) dogs had contractile reserve capacity ( 6 % + / - 49 % ) . conversely , surgically controlled blood cardioplegic reperfusion without preceding low-flow normal blood reperfusion after 2 hours of ischemia resulted in no ventricular arrhythmias ( 0 % ; p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis ) , 72 % + / - 7 % ( p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis ) recovery of regional contractility ( ultrasonic crystals ) , and 114 % + / - 11 % ( p less than 0.05 versus simulated coronary artery bypass after simulated thrombolysis ) recovery of contractile reserve with calcium chloride stimulation . we conclude that controlled reperfusion ( simulating coronary artery bypass ) with blood cardioplegic solution produces immediate functional recovery and avoids the ventricular fibrillation that follows simulated thrombolysis despite the need for prolonged ischemic time . preceding controlled reperfusion by normal blood reperfusion ( simulated thrombolysis ) shortens the ischemic time but nullifies immediate functional recovery possible by simulated coronary bypass and produces unnecessary arrhythmias . 
use of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements to show clonal lymphoproliferation in hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly in africa , hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly ( hms ) , which is also known as tropical splenomegaly syndrome , can be associated with a prominent lymphocytosis in blood and bone marrow that is difficult to distinguish clinically from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia ( cll ) . the observation that some patients with hms become resistant to treatment with anti-malarial drugs has led to the suggestion that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder . to test this hypothesis , 22 ghanaian patients with hms and/or lymphocytosis were categorised by degree of response to proguanil according to standard clinical criteria , and dna was extracted from peripheral blood cells and screened for rearrangements of the jh region of the immunoglobulin gene with a dna probe . clonal rearrangements of the jh region were found in all 3 patients with no response , in none of 13 patients with sustained response , and in 2 of 6 patients with moderate response or relapse on proguanil therapy . the detection of such rearrangements , and hence clonal lymphoproliferation in individuals with clinical features intermediate between hms and cll , supports the hypothesis that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder . 
co-trimoxazole for childhood febrile illness in malaria-endemic regions . the efficacy of co-trimoxazole for the treatment of plasmodium falciparum parasitaemia in children younger than 5 years of age was evaluated in malawi . 46 children with p falciparum parasitaemia , 37 % of whom also met clinical criteria for a diagnosis of acute lower respiratory tract infection , were treated with 20 mg/kg co-trimoxazole twice daily for five days . parasitaemia ( mean clearance time 2.7 days ) and symptoms were rapidly abolished and improvement was maintained during follow-up for 14 days . co-trimoxazole may be an effective single treatment for febrile illness in young children in areas where malaria is endemic , resources are few , and diagnosis must rely on clinical findings alone . 
intracranial pressure in african children with cerebral malaria opening lumbar cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) pressure was measured with a paediatric spinal fluid manometer in 26 of 61 kenyan children ( mean age 39 months ) with cerebral malaria . in all cases pressure was above normal ( mean [ sd ] 22.6 [ 7.4 ] cm csf , range 10.5-36 ) . clinical features of our patients suggest that intracranial hypertension is important in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria in children , especially as a cause of death . we suggest that raised intracranial pressure is secondary to increased cerebral blood volume . lowering intracranial pressure may significantly reduce the mortality and morbidity of cerebral malaria . the potential risks and benefits of lumbar puncture should be considered carefully in patients with suspected cerebral malaria . 
risks and benefits of paracetamol antipyresis in young children with fever of presumed viral origin to examine whether antipyretic therapy in young children is associated with potential risks ( interference with enhanced host defences at febrile temperatures ) or benefits ( improved comfort and behaviour ) , a randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of paracetamol was conducted among 225 children 6 months to 6 years of age who presented with acute ( less than or equal to 4 days ) fever ( greater than or equal to 38 degrees c per rectum ) without evident bacterial focus of infection . parents were asked to give paracetamol liquid 10-15 mg/kg or placebo every 4 h as needed for fever and to avoid bathing , sponging , or other pharmacological agents . parents kept temperature and symptom diaries and recorded changes in child comfort and behaviour according to a pretested , 5-category likert-type questionnaire 1-2 h after every dose . there were no significant differences between treated and placebo groups in mean duration of subsequent fever ( 34.7 vs 36.1 h ) or other symptoms ( 72.9 vs 71.7 h ) . paracetamol-treated children were more likely to be rated by their parents as having at least a 1-category improvement in activity ( 38 vs 11 % ; p = 0.005 ) and alertness ( 33 vs 12 % ; p = 0.036 ) but no significant differences were noted in mood , comfort , appetite , or fluid intake . that overall improvement in behaviour and comfort with paracetamol was not impressive is underscored by the inaccuracy of parents ' " guess " at the end of the trial as to which agent their child had received-45 % correct guesses for paracetamol and 52 % for placebo . the data suggest that the clinically relevant hazards and benefits of paracetamol antipyresis have been exaggerated . 
muscle fibre type and habitual snoring . although anatomical abnormalities of the upper airway have been recorded in some patients with obstructive sleep apnoea ( osa ) , a muscle tone dysregulation also seems to have an important role in this disorder . since habitual snoring is the initial stage of osa , the structural characteristics of upper airway muscles ( medium pharyngeal constrictor muscle [ mpcm ] ) from 13 men ( 9 non-snorers and 4 habitual snorers ) were studied . mpcm fibre structure in non-snorers was broadly similar to that in normal limb muscles , with the exception that fibre diameters were smaller for all fibre types . compared with limb muscles , mpcm had a smaller proportion of type iib fibres and a higher proportion of types i and iia fibres . mpcm in habitual snorers had an abnormal distribution of fibre types ( low percentage of type i and type iib fibres and high percentage of type iia fibres ) compared with non-snorers ( p less than 0.001 ) and the type iia fibres were hypertrophic . no myopathic or neurogenic changes were seen . two possible hypotheses explain the abnormal distribution of fibre types in snorers . first , a constitutionally determined reduction of slow alpha-motor neurons induces an adaptive transformation of type iib to type iia fibres and a hypertrophy of type iia fibres ; or , second , motor neurons change their patterns of discharge and , hence , of activation , and modify fibre-type distribution of mpcm as an adaptation to the anatomical characteristic of upper airway and habitual snoring . 
severity of cystic fibrosis in patients homozygous and heterozygous for delta f508 mutation . to assess the relation between genotype and severity of disease in cystic fibrosis ( cf ) the frequencies and extent of several features of its phenotypic expression were investigated in the 235 patients who attend the danish cf centre . 14 patients who attend irregularly and 3 who do not carry the delta f508 mutation at all were excluded . the case-reports of the remaining 218 patients ( aged 4 months to 41 years ) were carefully evaluated , and they were all analysed for the delta f508 mutation . 172 ( 79 % ) were homozygous for delta f508 and 46 ( 20 % ) were heterozygous . the mutation therefore occurs on 89 % of the chromosomes analysed . there were no significant differences between the homozygous and heterozygous groups in the proportions with meconium ileus at birth , liver involvement , or chronic pseudomonas aeruginosa infection . however , significantly more of the homozygous patients had onset of symptoms before the age of 6 months ( p less than 0.025 ) ; they were significantly younger at diagnosis ( p = 0.013 ) and centre referral ( p = 0.006 ) ; they required greater pancreatic enzyme substitution ( p = 0.0002 ) and had poorer lung function ; and the calculated yearly incidence of chronic ps aeruginosa infection and yearly mortality rates were greater than in heterozygous patients ( p = 0.0001 ) . 
hospital management of voluntary total fasting among political prisoners in 1989 20 political detainees , held without trial for up to 32 months , were admitted , on hunger strike , to the johannesburg hospital , south africa . most were held under the regulations of the state of emergency ( since revoked ) and 5 were held incommunicado under section 29 of the internal security act ( still in force ) . guidelines for ethical management were based on the declaration of tokyo , which included the understanding that such detentions constituted mental torture . conditions of detention in hospital were complicated by police interference in medical and nursing care , and by the chaining of some prisoners to their beds . doctors are in a unique position to protest against inhuman treatment of prisoners , and should use this authority . 
prognostic factors in craniofacial surgery . from 1979 to 1989 , 21 patients underwent craniofacial resection for malignancies involving the anterior skull base . histologic types included 8 squamous cell carcinomas , 3 chondrosarcomas , 2 melanomas , 2 basal cell carcinomas , 2 adenocarcinomas , 2 poorly differentiated carcinomas , 1 malignant schwannoma , and 1 malignant hemangiopericytoma . survival was 57 % , with follow-up of 41 months . a 50 % complication rate included osteomyelitis , cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea , meningitis , brain abscess , epidural abscess , and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone . recurrent disease occurred in 9 patients ( 41 % ) , the most reliable predictor being dural invasion indicated preoperatively by ct scan or at operation . patients demonstrating dural involvement ( n = 9 ) had a 22 % survival rate , while patients without ( n = 12 ) had a survival rate of 83 % . the impact of dural invasion on long-term survival is emphasized . though complications were frequent , long-term results were favorable . 
cerebrospinal fluid fistula and endoscopic sinus surgery . seven cases of cerebrospinal fluid fistulae occurring as a result of endoscopic sinus surgery in a total of 800 ethmoidectomies are discussed , along with 1 case referred for consultation . one cerebrospinal fluid fistula was intrasphenoid , 4 were posterior ethmoid/base of skull , 2 were anterior ethmoid , and 1 was ethmoid cribriform . six of 8 fistulae were closed endoscopically . the sphenoid sinus cerebrospinal fluid fistula was closed successfully with fibrin glue and gelfoam . five cerebrospinal fluid fistulae were closed successfully using fascia , muscle , and gel-foam . two cerebrospinal fluid fistulae were treated conservatively , and only 1 stopped . anatomic and technical aspects related to the occurrence of cerebrospinal fluid fistulae are discussed . management and treatment of cerebrospinal fluid fistulae occurring during and after endoscopic sinus surgery is emphasized . when identified intraoperatively or delayed , cerebrospinal fluid fistulae can be managed successfully by endoscopic technique . 
the internal oblique-iliac crest free flap in composite defects of the oral cavity involving bone , skin , and mucosa . the reconstruction of oromandibular defects following ablative surgery is a challenging undertaking . when the defect involves skin as well as mucosa , the challenge becomes even greater . the internal oblique iliac crest osteomyocutaneous free flap is particularly useful for reconstruction of through-and-through composite defects due to the inclusion of two separate soft-tissue flaps on the same vascular pedicle . we report our experience with this flap in the reconstruction of 10 patients with such defects . the utility , and the limitations of this form of reconstruction are discussed in detail . 
polyglucosan body disease . adult polyglucosan disease has been described in 15 cases . all had signs of peripheral neuropathy , upper motor neuron signs , and 12 of the 15 had sphincter problems . dementia was prominent in 8 of 15 cases . we reported 2 cases that contained these clinical features . electrophysiological studies showed axonal neuropathy . somatosensory evoked potentials on the second patient were abnormal . sural nerve biopsy showed clusters of polyglucosan bodies . although the presence of polyglucosan bodies in biopsy is nonspecific , the number as well as the clinical features are necessary to make the diagnosis . branching enzyme activity in muscle extracts of the muscles were normal . hence , a specific enzyme abnormality is not yet known . 
synchronous positive and negative myoclonus due to pontine hemorrhage . we report a case of synchronous positive and negative myoclonus following pontine hemorrhage . constant synchronous jerking of the eyes , tongue , face , mandible , larynx , pharynx , and diaphragms persisted during sleep . jerking of limb muscles occurred during volitional activities , but not at rest . inability to sustain glottic adduction during phonation contributed to severe dysarthria . electromyography ( emg ) revealed positive myoclonus of the branchial musculature with synchronous negative myoclonus in a generalized distribution . treatment with trazodone reduced the ocular myoclonus but worsened the dysphagia . we suggest that a single neural rhythm generator may produce both positive and negative myoclonus . 
myosin expression in hypertrophied fast twitch and slow tonic muscles of normal and dystrophic chickens . disruption of the development program of myosin gene expression has been reported in chicken muscular dystrophy . in the present report , the relationship between muscular dystrophy and the ability of muscle to respond to an increased work load with a transition in the myosin phenotype has been investigated . hypertrophy of slow tonic anterior latissimus dorsi ( ald ) and fast twitch patagialis ( pat ) muscles was induced by overloading for 35 days and myosin expression was analyzed by electrophoresis and immunocytochemistry . normal and dystrophic chicken ald muscles have nearly identical proportions of sm-1 and sm-2 isomyosins and both exhibit an age-related repression of the sm-1 isomyosin which is enhanced and accelerated by overloading . immunocytochemistry with anti-myosin heavy chain ( mhc ) antibodies demonstrates the appearance of nascent myofibers in overloaded ald muscles from both normal and dystrophic chickens . a minor fast twitch fiber population is also identified which doubles in number with overloading in normal ald muscles . there are only half as many fast twitch fibers in control dystrophic ald muscles and this number does not increase with overloading . in contrast to ald muscles , the isomyosin profile of normal and dystrophic pat muscles is quite different . there is significantly more fm-3 and significantly less fm-1 isomyosin in the dystrophic pat muscle . however , both normal and dystrophic pat muscles exhibit an overload-induced accumulation of the fm-3 isomyosin . immunocytochemistry reveals that , unlike the normal pat muscle , the dystrophic pat muscle contains a population of myofibers which express slow mhcs . as in the ald muscle , overload-induced hypertrophy is associated with a repression of the sm-1 mhc in these fibers . nascent myofiber formation does not occur in either normal or dystrophic overloaded pat muscles . 
aaem case report # 1 : ulnar neuropathy at the elbow . a patient with bilateral cubital syndrome complicated by anomalous innervation is presented . the electrodiagnostic approach to patients with this neuropathy is reviewed emphasizing new developments . the interpretation of the findings in this patient centers around issues of pathophysiology and methodology . 
a comparison of surfactant as immediate prophylaxis and as rescue therapy in newborns of less than 30 weeks ' gestation background . exogenous pulmonary surfactants are administered into the trachea either to prevent respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants or to treat it . in a randomized , multicenter trial , we compared the results of surfactant therapy initiated as prophylaxis with the results of rescue therapy with surfactant . methods . before birth , 479 infants with an estimated gestational age of less than 30 weeks were randomly assigned to receive surfactant as prophylaxis ( n = 235 ) or rescue therapy ( n = 244 ) . the infants in the prophylaxis group received a 90-mg intratracheal dose of an exogenous calf-lung surfactant extract at the time of delivery , whereas the infants in the rescue-therapy group received 90 mg of the surfactant several hours after delivery if the fractional inspiratory oxygen concentration was at least 0.40 or if the mean airway pressure was at least 0.686 kpa ( 7 cm of water ) , or both . infants in both groups received additional doses of surfactant at intervals of 12 to 24 hours if these criteria were met . results . the proportion of infants surviving until discharge to their homes was significantly higher in the prophylaxis group than in the rescue-therapy group ( 88 vs. 80 percent , p = 0.028 ) . this difference was due primarily to the longer survival of very premature infants ( less than or equal to 26 weeks ' gestation ) in the prophylaxis group than in the rescue-therapy group ( 75 vs. 54 percent , p = 0.006 ) . according to proportional-hazards regression analysis , the distribution of survival times was better for all infants in the prophylaxis group ( p = 0.007 ) and for the subgroup of infants in the prophylaxis group who were delivered at 26 weeks ' gestation or earlier ( p = 0.0048 ) . infants in the prophylaxis group who were delivered at 26 weeks ' gestation or earlier had a lower incidence of pneumothorax than similar infants in the rescue-therapy group ( 7 vs. 18 percent , p = 0.03 ) . conclusions . we found a significant advantage to the administration of the initial dose of surfactant as prophylaxis rather than as rescue therapy in very premature infants . 
the mec-4 gene is a member of a family of caenorhabditis elegans genes that can mutate to induce neuronal degeneration three dominant mutations of mec-4 , a gene needed for mechanosensation , cause the touch-receptor neurons of caenorhabditis elegans to degenerate . with deg-1 , another c. elegans gene that can mutate to induce neuronal degeneration and that is similar in sequence , mec-4 defines a new gene family . cross-hybridizing sequences are detectable in other species , raising the possibility that degenerative conditions in other organisms may be caused by mutations in similar genes . all three dominant mec-4 mutations affect the same amino acid . effects of amino-acid substitutions at this position suggest that steric hindrance may induce the degenerative state . 
protein synthesis required to anchor a mutant p53 protein which is temperature-sensitive for nuclear transport . the p53 protein is rendered temperature-sensitive by a point mutation . rat cells transformed by this mutant p53 and an activated ras oncogene grow well at 37 degrees c but cease dna synthesis and cell division when shifted to 32 degrees c. immunostaining demonstrates that the mutant p53 protein is in the nucleus of the arrested cells at 32 degrees c but in the cytoplasm of the growing cells at 37 degrees c. this is the first example of a protein which is temperature-sensitive for nuclear transport . the translocation from cytoplasm to nucleus and vice versa occurs 6 h after temperature shift and is coincident with the inhibition of dna synthesis ; transport from cytoplasm to nucleus does not require protein synthesis . remarkably , inhibition of protein synthesis at 37 degrees c also results in the rapid appearance of mutant p53 in the cell nucleus . these results suggest the presence of a short-lived protein responsible for holding p53 in the cytoplasm at 37 degrees c but not at 32 degrees c. analysis of a non-temperature-sensitive mutant p53 protein shows that its cytoplasmic location is sensitive to protein synthesis inhibitors but not to temperature . 
chronic musculoskeletal pain and depressive symptoms in the general population . an analysis of the 1st national health and nutrition examination survey data . chronic pain and depression frequently occur together . a selection bias afflicts all hospital clinic and family practice populations in which this relationship has been examined . we report here some of the results from civilian populations outside institutions , examined in the united states in national surveys . the findings are based upon the recollection of individuals with respect to the period of 12 months prior to interview and upon the occurrence of depression in the previous week as indicated by the answers to the depression scale of the centre for epidemiologic studies ( ces-d ) . they indicate that 14.4 % of the united states population between the ages of 25-74 suffer from definite chronic pain related to the joints and musculoskeletal system . another 7.4 % have some pain of uncertain duration . eighty-three percent of the definite pain group received treatment . chronic pain subjects scored significantly higher than normals on the ces-d ( 10.68 + / - s.e.m. 0.76 vs. 8.05 + / - 0.23 , p less than 0.01 ) with subjects with pain of uncertain duration scoring similar to the definite chronic pain population ( 11.13 + / - 0.76 ) . using a high cut-off score for depression . 18 % of the population with chronic pain were found to have depression . this is in contrast to 8 % of the population who did not have chronic pain . 
codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in longer-term treatment of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip . a randomised , double-blind , multi-centre study . this randomized , double-blind , multi-centre study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatment for 4 weeks with codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in relieving chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip . a total of 158 outclinic patients entered the study . eighty-three patients ( mean age 66 years ) were treated with codeine 60 mg plus paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily , and 75 patients ( mean age 67 years ) with paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily . ibuprofen 400 mg was prescribed as rescue medication . due to an unexpected high rate of adverse drug reactions , the study was closed before the planned 400 patients had entered . over weeks 1-4 , 87 % , 64 % , 61 % and 52 % of patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group , and 38 % , 31 % , 22 % and 29 % of patients in the paracetamol group had one or more adverse drug reactions . significantly more patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group had adverse drug reactions in each of the 4 weeks . nausea , dizziness , vomiting and constipation were predominant adverse reactions in the codeine plus paracetamol group . during the first week of treatment , 30 patients ( 36 % ) in the codeine plus paracetamol group and 9 ( 12 % ) in the paracetamol group dropped out . as evaluated from patients completing the first week of treatment , the pain intensity during that week compared to their baseline pain was significantly lower in the codeine plus paracetamol group than in the paracetamol group . moreover , during the first week the paracetamol group received rescue medicine significantly more frequently . in conclusion , when evaluated after 7 days of treatment , the daily addition of codeine 180 mg to paracetamol 3 g significantly reduced the intensity of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip joint . however , several adverse drug reactions , mainly of the gastrointestinal tract , and the larger number of patients withdrawing from treatment means that the addition of such doses of codeine can not be recommended for longer-term treatment of chronic pain in elderly patients . 
assessment of the components of observed chronic pain behavior : the checklist for interpersonal pain behavior ( chip ) . this article describes the development of the checklist for interpersonal pain behavior ( chip ) , an observation scale which assesses overt pain behavior . the study is an extension of an earlier study in which the dimensions and components of observed chronic pain behavior were examined . a broad definition of pain behavior is chosen ( interpersonal pain behavior ) , namely the interaction between the pain patient and his/her direct environment . the list of pain behaviors , taken from the earlier study , has been transformed into a 78-item global rating scale to be used by nurses to quantify observed pain behavior in a clinical setting . six studies examine the factor structure and the psychometric properties of this behavioral observation method . in the first study , 6 internally reliable factors are derived using factor analytic techniques from a sample of 152 chronic pain patients . they are labeled as : ' distorted mobility , ' ' verbal complaints , ' ' non-verbal complaints , ' ' nervousness , ' ' depression ' and ' day sleeping . ' internal consistency of all factors , except ' day sleeping ' was excellent . the following studies show that the chip is sufficiently reliable and valid . after a discussion on the advantages of this observation scale , the conclusion seems justified that the chip is a useful tool in pain assessment that can easily be used by nurses . 
hypoxanthine levels in vitreous humor : evidence of hypoxia in most infants who died of sudden infant death syndrome . postmortem changes of the hypoxanthine in vitreous humor in humans were investigated . hypoxanthine is formed from hypoxic degradation of adenosine monophosphate . repeated sampling was performed in 13 deceased adults . keeping the bodies at +6 degrees c , the increase of the hypoxanthine levels was estimated to 3.5 mumol/l per hour when sampling was started more than 12 hours after death ( range 2.8 to 5.6 mumol/l per hour ) . results of hypoxanthine measurements from vitreous humor in 73 infants with sudden infant death syndrome , 17 infants and children who died sudden violent deaths , and 6 neonates who died suddenly without hypoxemia prior to death were corrected according to the expected postmortem hypoxanthine increase . the time between death and autopsy was similar in the three groups studied . the corrected median hypoxanthine level in the group with sudden infant death syndrome was 227 mumol/l , which is significantly higher than in the other groups ; 22 mumol/l in the group who had violent deaths ( p less than .01 ) , and 0 mumol/l in the neonate group ( p less than .01 ) . the findings seem to confirm that sudden infant death is preceded by a relatively long period of tissue hypoxia in most cases . 
immunologic defects in patients with refractory sinusitis . sixty-one patients with chronic sinusitis who were referred for an allergy evaluation were evaluated for immunologic competence including assessment of quantitative serum immunoglobulin levels , igg subclass levels , and response to pneumococcal and haemophilus influenzae vaccines . in addition to chronic sinus disease , recurrent otitis media and asthma exacerbation were common problems in this group . five patients had an elevated age-adjusted ige level and 22 patients had positive prick tests to one or more environmental inhalants ; these findings suggest an allergic component in this subgroup . twelve additional patients had highly reactive intradermal tests to common environmental allergens , which also may be clinically significant for underlying atopy . eleven patients had low immunoglobulin levels , 6 had low immunoglobulin levels and vaccine hyporesponsiveness , and 17 had poor vaccine response only . thus , 34 of 61 patients with refractory sinusitis had abnormal results on immune studies , with depressed igg3 levels and poor response to pneumococcal antigen 7 being most common . in addition to allergy , immunologic incompetence may be an important etiologic factor in patients with chronic , refractory sinusitis . 
orthopedic complications . compartment syndrome , fat embolism syndrome , and venous thromboembolism . specialized education in the care of orthopedic patients includes an understanding of the common complications for which patients require monitoring . with a socioeconomic backdrop of decreasing hospital stays and prospective payment , patient care must be managed proactively . for all three complications presented , there are unique sets of risk factors that , when present , contribute to a high index of suspicion for morbidity . clusters of symptoms have also been discussed representing the expected normal patterns . with this knowledge as a foundation , clinical application is essential to incorporate other salient aspects of individual situations . nurses diagnose and treat human responses to health problems . the end result of human responses to injury or orthopedic conditions can be the development of complications . stringent adherence to patient monitoring protocols can promote timely nursing interventions to prevent , minimize , or detect complications or treatment side effects . although definitive treatment is often physician directed , nurses are in a key role to impact final patient outcomes . 
traumatic vulvar hematomas . assessing and treating nonobstetric patients . management of the vast majority of vulvar hematomas is conservative . most resolve spontaneously when simple measures are taken . serial examinations are necessary to distinguish uncomplicated hematomas from those requiring surgery . the clinician must also be vigilant for the possibility of sexual abuse and respond with appropriate workup and referral if this situation is suspected . 
esophageal and gastric endoscopy in critically ill patients . how can it help you ? bleeding from the upper gastrointestinal tract in a critically ill patient is a tough diagnostic situation . endoscopy can help physicians determine the cause of bleeding and can also provide several therapeutic options . the authors discuss these applications of the current technology . 
emergency resuscitation in children . the role of intraosseous infusion . intraosseous infusion is a temporary procedure for use in pediatric emergencies when intravenous access is difficult . multiple drugs and fluids can be safely administered through the intraosseous route . dosage and rate of infusion are essentially the same as with intravenous infusion . 
maxillary sinus hypoplasia masquerading as chronic sinusitis . maxillary sinus hypoplasia is a common condition that may be misdiagnosed as chronic sinusitis . although hypoplasia can usually be seen on conventional sinus films , computed tomography may be necessary , as in the cases described by the authors in this article . 
do you have patients with anorexia or bulimia ? understanding is the first step in helping . anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa have , in recent years , become disorders of major concern . young women are particularly prone to such eating disorders , and substantial numbers have involved themselves in the practices that identify these problems . understanding the thinking behind these disorders is helpful in recognizing them and developing a treatment approach . the most effective medication for bulimia reported to date is fluoxetine hydrochloride ( prozac ) . the concurrent participation of a physician , nutritionist , and family therapist in the care of these patients is ideal . 
chilaiditi 's syndrome . a diagnostic challenge . chilaiditi 's syndrome should be considered in the differential diagnosis of abdominal and chest pain . although interposition of the right colon is a relatively common radiologic finding , there is a distinct paucity of information in the medical literature . chilaiditi 's syndrome is usually asymptomatic , but when symptoms occur , conservative treatment is usually effective . recognition is important because this syndrome can be mistaken for more serious abnormalities , which may lead to unnecessary surgical intervention . 
interaction of the v-rel protein with an nf-kappa b dna binding site . the avian reticuloendotheliosis virus t contains within its genome the oncogene rel . the expression of this gene is responsible for the induction of lymphoid tumors in birds . recently , the rel gene was shown to be related to the p50 dna binding subunit of the transcription factor complex nf-kappa b. binding sites for the nf-kappa b complex are found in the enhancer regions of a number of genes , including the immunoglobulin kappa gene and the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat . in this communication we identify an activity from avian reticuloendotheliosis virus t-transformed avian lymphoid cells that binds in an electrophoretic-mobility-shift assay to an nf-kappa b binding site from the kappa enhancer . this activity contains proteins immunologically related to rel , as detected by polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies directed against v-rel . in a dna affinity precipitation assay using the nf-kappa b site from the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat , v-rel and several other proteins were identified . these data suggest that oncogenic transformation by v-rel is the result of an altered pattern of gene expression . 
nerve growth factor corrects developmental impairments of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the trisomy 16 mouse . the trisomy 16 ( ts16 ) mouse , which shares genetic and phenotypic homologies with down syndrome , exhibits impaired development of the basal forebrain cholinergic system . basal forebrains obtained from ts16 and euploid littermate fetuses at 15 days of gestation were dissociated and cultured in completely defined medium , with cholinergic neurons identified by choline acetyltransferase ( chat ) immunoreactivity . the ts16 cultures exhibited fewer chat-immunoreactive neurons , which were smaller and emitted shorter , smoother , and more simplified neurites than those from euploid littermates . whereas the addition of beta-nerve growth factor ( 100 ng/ml ) augmented the specific activity of chat and neuritic extension for both ts16 and euploid cholinergic neurons , only ts16 cultures exhibited an increase in the number and size of chat-immunoreactive neurons . furthermore , ts16 chat-immunoreactive neurites formed varicosities only in the presence of beta-nerve growth factor . 
stage transitions in b-lymphocyte differentiation correlate with limited variations in nuclear proteins . total nuclear proteins extracted from cell lines representing various stages of differentiation of mouse b lymphocytes were studied by computer analysis of two-dimensional gels . of the 1438 spots present on the gels , 55 varied significantly in intensity during differentiation . the variations occurred most often in steps correlating with those classically defined for b-cell differentiation . seventeen spots were not detectable in at least one of the stages ( qualitative variations ) and could represent switching on or off of genes coding for nuclear proteins . detailed analysis of the 55 variable spots showed that they fall into small sets characterized by similar expression profiles , which argues for a combinatorial , multistep control mechanism of gene expression . in addition , analysis of the expression of all the nuclear proteins resolved on the gels clearly differentiated b-lineage cells from myeloid cells and suggested that the most important transition in b-cell differentiation occurs between the resting b cell and plasmocyte stages . 
expressional potency of mrnas encoding receptors and voltage-activated channels in the postmortem rat brain . the stability and integrity of mrnas encoding neurotransmitter receptors and voltage-activated channels in the postmortem rat brain was investigated by isolating poly ( a ) + mrna , injecting it into xenopus oocytes , and then examining the expression of functional neurotransmitter receptors and voltage-activated channels in the oocyte membrane by electrophysiological recording . this approach was also used to assess the stability of mrnas in brains that were incubated in oxygenated mammalian ringer 's solution for various lengths of time and from brains that were freshly frozen and then thawed at room temperature . oocytes injected with mrna from up to 21-hr postmortem brains gave large agonist - and voltage-activated responses , indicating that mrnas encoding neurotransmitter receptors and voltage-activated channels are relatively stable in postmortem brain tissue . in contrast , oocytes injected with mrna from brains incubated in ringer 's solution exhibited smaller responses , and oocytes injected with mrna from tissue that was frozen and then thawed displayed very small or undetectable responses . northern blot analysis using a nucleic acid probe for rat brain na ( + ) - channel mrna indicated that the size of the na + currents in injected oocytes reflected the levels of mrna for na + channels in the different mrna preparations . thus , the expressional potency of mrnas encoding neurotransmitter receptors and voltage-activated channels is quite stable in postmortem brains in situ , but it is reduced if the brains are kept in oxygenated saline , and freezing and thawing of tissue results in rapid degeneration of mrna . 
long-chain ( sphingoid ) bases inhibit multistage carcinogenesis in mouse c3h/10t1/2 cells treated with radiation and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate . sphingosine and other long-chain ( sphingoid ) bases inhibit protein kinase c , the putative cellular receptor for the tumor promoter phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) , and exert potent effects on diverse cell functions . we tested the ability of long-chain bases to modulate multistage carcinogenesis in mouse c3h/10t1/2 cells exposed to gamma-rays and pma . sphingosine and sphinganine completely blocked the enhancement of radiation-induced transformation by pma ( promotion ) and partially suppressed transformation by radiation alone . n-acetylsphingosine , a ceramide analog , did not inhibit transformation . sphingosine was rapidly taken up by the cells and metabolized ; hence , the long-chain bases were added daily to achieve prolonged inhibition . long-chain bases inhibited protein kinase c activity in c3h/10t1/2 cells and suppressed the down-regulation of this enzyme by pma . our results establish that long-chain bases are highly effective inhibitors of carcinogenesis in this model . our results also indicate that the suppressive effects may be mediated , in part , by inhibition of protein kinase c. the data suggest that sphingosine and other long-chain bases derived from complex sphingolipids may act as cancer-preventative agents . 
translocation breakpoint of acute promyelocytic leukemia lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus . acute promyelocytic leukemias ( apls ) are characterized by a reciprocal balanced translocation that involves chromosomes 15 and 17 [ t ( 15 ; 17 ) ] . we report the isolation and characterization of one of the two reciprocal break sites and demonstrate that the chromosome 17 breakpoint lies within the retinoic acid receptor alpha locus . nucleotide sequencing of the 15 ; 17 cross-over junction on 15q + showed that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene is truncated within its first intron , 370 base pairs upstream from the splicing donor site of exon ii . such a recombination would be expected to generate abnormal rar alpha mrna and protein . southern blot analysis of a number of apls with chromosome 15 - and 17-derived dna probes revealed similar 15 ; 17 recombinations in the majority of other apls . our data are strong evidence that the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene plays a crucial role in the leukemogenesis of apl . 
chronic pain -- assessment of orthopedic physical therapists ' knowledge and attitudes . orthopedic physical therapists ' knowledge of pain mechanisms and methods of pain management and their attitudes toward working with patients with benign chronic pain were studied . a random sample of 500 members of the american physical therapy association 's section on orthopaedics received by mail a 36-item questionnaire . statistical analysis of scores , using frequencies , means , and correlations was performed on the 119 ( 23.8 % ) usable returns . all but 4 % of the respondents preferred to work with patients who are not likely to have chronic pain . seventy-two percent believed their entry-level education in pain management and theory was very inadequate or less than adequate to deal with an orthopedic patient population . pain knowledge scores were low ( 35.8 out of 46 points ) , and the scores on positive attitudes toward treating patients with benign chronic pain were lower ( 20.5 out of 36 points ) . the study suggests specific deficiencies in orthopedic physical therapists ' knowledge of clinical pain mechanisms and management and potentially undesirable attitudes toward treating patients with chronic pain . 
open-heart surgery in jehovah 's witnesses . during a 7-year period , 11 adult members of the religious sect jehovah 's witnesses underwent cardiac surgery with extracorporeal circulation . no homologous blood transfusions were given . blood-conserving procedures were employed , viz . initial collection of autologous blood , haemofiltration or processing ( cell saver ) of blood collected during extracorporeal circulation and reinfusion of shed mediastinal blood . the total perioperative blood loss averaged 1080 ml ( 15 ml/kg body weight ) , equalling 19 % of total body blood volume . the mean haemoglobin on discharge from hospital was 11.0 g/100 ml . there was no perioperative mortality . postoperative pulmonary function was good and there was no serious morbidity . jehovah 's witnesses with serious , surgery-necessitating heart disease can be offered operation comprising recognized blood-conserving procedures . 
surgical treatment of active native valve endocarditis . a report is presented of 24 patients ( 23 male ) , mean age 38 years , who underwent surgery for active native valve endocarditis of the left heart in 1975-1988 . the aortic valve was affected in all patients , and also the mitral valve in five . pre-existing aortic valve disorder was present in 17 cases ( 13 congenitally bicuspid 4 rheumatic affection ) . there were five hospital deaths ( 20.8 % ) . staphylococci as causal organism and extensive infection predicted the highest mortality and morbidity . the mean follow-up time was 39.7 ( range 2-114 ) months . two reoperations because of prosthetic valve dehiscence revealed endocarditis of the implanted valve . strong correlation was found between favourable postoperative course and rapid normalization of c-reactive protein levels , which did not fall in patients with persistent infection . early surgery is recommended if the course of bacterial endocarditis is severely complicated . 
spinal cord injury after subclavian flap aortoplasty . an experimental study in piglets . paraplegia is a rare but much feared complication of corrective surgery for coarctation of the aorta . the problem was studied in 31 newborn pigs submitted to subclavian flap aortoplasty . the aortic cross-clamping time ranged from 9-25 min . twenty-three piglets with clamping times 9-18 min were neurologically intact , whereas eight with aortic clamping for 18-25 min became paraplegic . the clinical implications for newborn children with symptomatic aortic coarctation are discussed with regard to these experimental findings . 
effect of dipyridamole ( persantin ) on blood flow and patency of aortocoronary vein bypass grafts . the effect of dipyridamole was investigated in 360 patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery . they were randomly allocated to receive dipyridamole ( 100 mg orally q.i.d. for 2 days preoperatively , 5 mg/kg body weight/24 h i.v. peroperatively and 100 mg orally q.i.d. for 1 year postoperatively ) or placebo . withdrawn from the study were 48 patients on dipyridamole and 57 on placebo . cardiovascular and/or cerebrovascular events or need for anticoagulant treatment were the reasons for withdrawal in 22 ( 13 % ) of the dipyridamole , and 34 ( 18 % ) of the placebo group . logistic regression analysis of risk factors influencing graft patency showed significant relation to peroperatively measured coronary blood flow . a positive trend of treatment was observed ( p = 0.08 ) . vein graft blood flow measured during bypass surgery ( 245 patients ) was significantly greater in the dipyridamole group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the occlusion rate was lower in vessels with peroperative blood flow greater than 30 ml/min ( vein-marginal p less than 0.01 , vein-dexter p less than 0.05 , vein-diagonal 0.05 less than p less than 0.1 ) . dipyridamole increases coronary blood flow and graft patency following coronary bypass surgery . 
patients with mental disorders who work . mental illness can devastate persons intellectually and emotionally ; with maintenance therapy , however , certain patients with chronic mental illnesses are capable of holding a variety of jobs . from the total population of psychiatric patients in our va outpatient clinic , the 87 who were gainfully employed were identified to determine common factors among them . affective disorders were the predominant diagnoses among patients who worked , while schizophrenia was more common among those who did not . alcoholism was diagnosed in approximately 25 % of working and nonworking groups . 
long-term medical consequences of incest , rape , and molestation . one hundred thirty-one patients who gave a history of childhood sexual abuse were seen in a general medical practice decades after the event and were compared with a control group . the subject patients were found to be distinct for chronic depression , morbid obesity , marital instability , high utilization of medical care , and certain psychosomatic symptoms , particularly chronic gastrointestinal distress and recurrent headaches . it is clear that these remote events can underlie difficult chronic medical problems . questions about childhood sexual abuse must become part of the practitioner 's review of systems in these difficult cases , if not routinely . 
duodenal stricture : a complication of chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis . over the past 10 years , one of us ( m.c.a. ) has treated 92 patients who required operation for symptoms associated with alcohol-induced chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis . four of these patients had duodenal obstruction . all four had had lateral pancreaticojejunostomy to relieve pancreatic ductal obstruction and associated chronic abdominal pain ; three of the four also required biliary diversion for stenosis of the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct . each duodenal stricture required reoperation and gastrojejunostomy to bypass the site of obstruction . a review of the english language literature revealed that duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis is uncommon , only 58 previous cases having been reported . all of those patients had pancreatic ductal obstruction , and more than half had concomitant distal biliary stenosis . two thirds of the duodenal obstructions were treated by gastroenterostomy , and one third were resected . duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic pancreatitis and biliary stricture appears to reflect an advanced form of the disease . combined lateral pancreaticojejunostomy and biliary diversion has emerged as the preferred surgical procedure for this problem . careful preoperative assessment for evidence of duodenal stenosis also is needed in this group of patients , and gastroenterostomy is indicated in appropriate cases . 
cerebral falciparum malaria mimicking thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . we have described a patient with cerebral falciparum malaria who had rapidly progressive cns deterioration , renal failure , hemolytic anemia associated with striking and varied erythrocyte morphologic changes , and thrombocytopenia . the initial diagnosis was thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) of unknown origin . reexamination of the peripheral smear of this comatose patient led to correct diagnosis and effective treatment in this case of cerebral falciparum malaria -- another of medicine 's great mimickers . 
factitious cyclic hypersomnia : a new variant of factitious disorder . the central goal of patients with factitious disorders is to receive medical care . unnecessary diagnostic procedures and recurrent hospitalizations often ensue . we saw a 39-year-old man with a novel variation of this disorder : factitious cyclic hypersomnia , or the simulation of recurrent episodes of excessive sleep . this case highlights the observations that patients whose illnesses are simulated may have diverse symptoms , that no syndrome is immune to factitious imitation , and that attempts at treatment , though exceedingly challenging , are always contingent upon appropriate recognition . 
management of arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the forearm . we initially observed our patient , who had subcutaneous arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the volar forearm , until his wound demarcation was complete . after wound demarcation , we proceeded with debridement and partial-thickness skin grafting . upper extremity function was totally normal 3 months after this therapy . this is the first case report in the literature that describes a child with an arginine monohydrochloride-induced extravasation necrosis . 
a complex ileovaginal fistula with associated obstructive uropathy in a patient with crohn 's disease : technical considerations and review of the literature . a high index of suspicion of an ileogenital fistula should be aroused by a patient with crohn 's disease , weight loss , malnutrition , and a persistent vaginal discharge . preoperative gastrointestinal and genitourinary evaluation should be used in an attempt to localize the fistulous origin as well as concomitant fistulae . the principles of surgical therapy include preoperative ureteral catheters , resection of the diseased bowel and fistulous segment of bowel , and interposition of healthy tissue ( ie , omentum ) between the bowel anastomosis and the vaginal cuff . 
spontaneous rupture of a normal bladder . we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of a normal urinary bladder . patients with this rare condition characteristically have a recent history of heavy alcohol intake , sudden onset of abdominal pain coincidental with bloody urine , generalized peritonitis , and abnormal renal chemistry . a high index of suspicion will lead to early diagnosis and treatment , minimizing the mortality attributed to this condition . 
spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult . we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult . immediate onset of severe upper abdominal pain after overindulgence in food and drink along with radiographic evidence of pneumoperitoneum and the clinical findings of massive abdominal distention , epigastric tenderness , shock , and occasionally subcutaneous emphysema should suggest the possibility of gastric rupture . the treatment is simple , but mortality is high when surgical intervention is not rapid . 
gastric infarction . we have described a patient with an acute condition of the abdomen who had infarction of the stomach and the small intestine due to atheromatous thrombus of celiac and superior mesenteric arteries . we believe this unusual simultaneous occurrence of gastric and small intestinal infarction is coincidental . the outcome of gastric infarction is frequently fatal . 
acute oculogyric crisis after administration of prochlorperazine . we report a case of acute oculogyric crisis due to prochlorperazine administration in a young black woman with a concomitant viral infection . neuroleptic medications are the most common cause of drug-induced acute dystonic reactions such as oculogyric crisis . prochlorperazine is an antiemetic agent with a phenothiazine-type chemical structure and is known to cause dystonic reactions . drug-induced acute dystonic reactions are most common in young adults and in men . viral infections may also predispose patients to these adverse reactions . caution is warranted when this drug is used in patients who have other risk factors for an acute dystonic reaction . 
the value of routine preoperative laboratory testing in predicting postoperative complications : a multivariate analysis . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of preoperative laboratory testing to predict postoperative complications . five hundred twenty patients undergoing elective surgery had their american society of anesthesiologists ' classification , ponderal index , electrolyte values , glucose levels , blood urea nitrogen/creatinine values , complete blood counts , coagulation studies , total protein/albumin/lymphocyte count , electrocardiogram , chest radiograph , urinalysis , pulmonary function tests , type of anesthesia , and type of operation recorded preoperatively . patients were followed prospectively after surgery for the development of complications . the data were analyzed by univariate and multivariate methods . postoperative complications were strongly associated with american society of anesthesiologists ' classification , type of anesthesia , and type of operation . however , only a few laboratory tests , such as electrocardiogram , chest radiograph , and nutritional status , were associated with postoperative complications . therefore , in general , preoperative laboratory testing should only be undertaken for specific indications . recommendations for routine tests are made depending on the age of the patient . 
elective resection of 332 abdominal aortic aneurysms in a southern west virginia community during a recent five-year period . this study analyzed 33 variables that might potentially affect outcome in a series of 332 consecutive elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repairs in a southern west virginia community . one of the interesting features of this series was that the repairs were done by 22 surgeons with varying degrees of experience . the mortality and complication rates were compared for various potential risk factors by both univariant methods ( chi 2 , fisher 's exact , and student t tests ) and multivariant methods of analysis . our early mortality ( 2.1 % ) and postoperative complication rates were consistent with those of other series . with multiple linear regression models , five factors were selected as significant independent risk factors associated with an increasing number of postoperative complications : the number of blood transfusions ( p less than 0.0001 ) , left renal vein ligation ( p less than 0.0001 ) , the presence of greater than 50 % renal artery stenosis ( p = 0.0012 ) , the lesser experience of the surgeon ( p = 0.0203 ) , and the history of prior cardiac catheterization ( p = 0.0245 ) . the only factor statistically correlated with mortality rate was an increased number of postoperative complications ( p less than 0.0001 ) . neither postoperative complications nor mortality rate was found to be significant and independently influenced by other demographic , clinical , or operative factors . it is tempting to speculate that surgeons with less experience might be well served to refer patients with significant renal artery stenosis and coronary artery disease . our mortality and complication rates were not increased by performing preoperative angiography and therefore prudent surgeons may find this helpful in selecting patients for safer repair . 
bacteriologic quality of intraoperative autotransfusion . controversies remain about the bacteriologic aspects of intraoperative blood salvage despite the widespread use of this technique . in this prospective study , intraoperative salvaged blood was cultured in 401 patients , according to a direct plating technique . bacterial growth was detected in 12.7 % of cases . these results were compared with those obtained in control studies with sterile water and blood bank units under the same culture conditions . most microorganisms were coagulase-negative staphylococci , followed by other skin and environmental contaminants . quantitative estimates of contaminations showed low counts of colony-forming units ( cfu/ml ) : 82 % of positive cultures yielded 1 or 2 cfu/ml and 6 % had 5 to 20 cfu/ml . patients were followed up for a minimum of 3 months to detect septic complications . no statistically significant correlation could be found between bacteriologic results of autotransfused blood and infectious complications . this study suggests that bacteriologic monitoring of patients who have undergone autotransfusion may help in detecting surgical field contamination . it also confirms that intraoperative autotransfusion adds little septic risk to cardiac surgery . 
late arterial hemorrhage secondary to a greenfield filter requiring operative intervention . retroperitoneal hematomas associated with greenfield filters have been described and are generally characterized as clinically insignificant . we report a retroperitoneal hematoma that was associated with a greenfield filter and that required operative intervention because of hemodynamic instability . at operation a lumbar arterial laceration apparently caused by a protruding filter prong was identified and ligated . the implications of this occurrence for filter placement indications are discussed . the potential life-threatening severity of filter-associated hematomas is emphasized . 
the role of cholecystokinin in the pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis in the isolated pancreas preparation . in a variety of animal models of acute pancreatitis , cholecystokinin-receptor antagonists have ameliorated the injury response . these results suggest that cholecystokinin may play a primary role in the pathogenesis of pancreatitis initiated by multiple stimuli . in an effort to test this theory , a sensitive and high affinity cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist l364 ,718 was administered to four different models of acute pancreatitis that were produced in the ex vivo perfused canine pancreas preparation . the four models of pancreatitis were initiated by cerulein infusion , partial duct obstruction with secretin stimulation , oleic acid infusion , and a 2-hour period of ischemia . in each model , pancreatitis was manifest by edema formation , weight gain , and hyperamylasemia during a 4-hour perfusion . in cerulein infusion-induced pancreatitis l364 ,718 inhibited edema formation and weight gain ( 31 + / - 5 gm versus 7 + / - 6 gm ; p less than 0.05 ) and significantly decreased plasma amylase activity ( 36,605 + / - 21,216 u/dl versus 9421 + / - 5149 u/dl ; p less than 0.05 ) . the acute pancreatitis induced by the other three stimuli was not ameliorated by l364 ,718 treatment . we conclude that in the ex vivo-perfused canine pancreas preparation cerulein-induced pancreatitis is mediated at least in part by the cholecystokinin receptor . early blockade of the cholecystokinin receptor was of no benefit in treating the other models of pancreatitis , suggesting that cholecystokinin is not involved in the early pathogenesis . 
effects of hypovolemia and transfusion on tumor growth in mca-tumor-bearing rats . pretransplant blood transfusion has been shown to significantly affect the outcome of renal transplantation . evidence regarding the association of blood transfusions with growth or recurrence of solid tumors is still conflicting both in clinical and in experimental studies , although diminished survival has been suggested in several studies . to determine the influence of blood transfusions and hypovolemia , as separate or combined factors , on tumor growth , we evaluated the weight of a subcutaneously implanted sarcoma ( methylcholanthrene-induced ) in 35 rats . after reaching 1 % tumor burden ( day 0 ) , the animals were separated into two groups : hypovolemia ( shed volume , 15 ml/kg ) or normovolemia . these groups were further divided according to resuscitation : oo ( no resuscitation ) , bl ( receiving syngeneic blood stored in citrate phosphate dextrose for 4 days , 15 ml/kg ) , sl ( receiving 0.9 % sodium chloride , 45 ml/kg ) . tumor dimensions were determined daily by external measurement , and tumor weight was calculated . hypovolemia exerted a significant influence on tumor growth , independent of the resuscitation modality . the rats that received blood transfusions showed an increased rate of tumor growth , compared to the animals that received saline solution or no treatment . no interaction was noted between the effects produced by hypovolemia and blood transfusion . we conclude that the hypovolemic event enhanced tumor growth independently of the resuscitation , and transfusion of citrate phosphate dextrose-blood stored for 4 days did influence tumor growth in this model . we suggest that the effect of blood transfusion in patients with cancer has to be redefined to account for the influence of possible hypovolemic events . 
congenital cyst of common bile duct : an unusual cause of obstructive jaundice . congenital cysts , sometimes referred to as nonparasitic biliary cysts , are not unusual findings in the liver parenchyma , but they have not been previously described in the common bile duct . this clinical report describes a 41-year-old woman with obstructive jaundice that was caused by congenital cysts . the patient had obstruction of the middle portion of the common bile duct ; therefore the major differential diagnostic considerations were cholangiocarcinoma , cancer of the pancreas , or true biliary cysts . congenital cysts , retention cysts , and neoplastic cysts can not be differentiated from other true cysts preoperatively . diagnosis can only be established by microscopic examination after surgical excision . 
radical prostatectomy after definitive radiation therapy for prostate cancer . radical prostatectomy was performed in 14 patients following local failure of radiation therapy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate . ten patients were treated with external beam and 4 with interstitial radiation . the interval from beginning radiation therapy to biopsy-proved residual or recurrent disease was twenty-four to one hundred fourteen months ( mean 61 months ) . ten patients had significant anterior and lateral fibrosis . five patients had loss of tissue planes between the prostate and rectum , however , no rectal injuries occurred . estimated blood loss was 300-8 ,000 cc ( median 1,000 cc ) . operative time was one hundred ten to three hundred seventy-five minutes ( median 185 minutes ) . significant late complications are impotence ( 100 % ) and incontinence ( 55 % ) . tumor volume was 1.1-27 .2 cc ( mean 11.1 cc ) . seven patients had seminal vesicle involvement , 9 had level iii capsule penetration , and 6 had positive surgical margins . follow-up ranges from one to fifty-two months ( median 18 months ) . currently , 6 patients are clinically without disease and have serum prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) of 0.0 ng/ml . four patients have no clinical evidence of disease but do have detectable serum psa , and 4 patients have evidence of metastatic bone disease on bone scan with elevated serum psa levels . radical prostatectomy following radiation therapy has no greater immediate morbidity or mortality compared with radical prostatectomy without prior irradiation and takes only slightly longer to perform . however , there is a marked increased risk of impotence and incontinence . more patients followed for a longer time are needed to assess the benefit of radical prostatectomy on survival of patients who fail radiation therapy . 
symptom analysis of patients undergoing modified pereyra bladder neck suspension for stress urinary incontinence . pre - and postoperative findings . the results of a physician-directed follow-up of 145 women undergoing the modified pereyra bladder neck suspension from march 1980 to february 1986 are presented . median follow-up was 3.5 years ( 2.0-7 .7 ) ; 70 percent of patients had follow-up between three and four years postoperatively . all patients had preoperative demonstration of stress incontinence as well as urodynamic evaluation . fifty-one percent of patients reported no stress incontinence and 76 percent reported that their sense of urinary control was better , or much better at the time of follow-up . improvement was seen in all grades of stress incontinence . age , weight , parity , and history of prior anti-incontinence surgery had no significant impact on success rates . although preoperative urgency symptoms were more common among failure ( 28 % vs 15 % ) , this association was not statistically significant . however , persistent or de novo urgency symptoms postoperatively were highly associated with postoperative incontinence ( p less than 0.005 ) . the onset of recurrent incontinence was experienced more than two years postoperatively in 23 percent of the incontinent group . 
bilateral emphysematous pyelonephritis . emphysematous pyelonephritis is an uncommon and serious infection associated with gas-forming coliform bacteria . bilateral involvement is rare with only 10 reported cases in the english literature . prompt and aggressive management is required to salvage these patients . preservation of renal function using broad-spectrum antibiotics and surgical drainage provide the greatest benefit to these patients . three new cases are presented with a brief review of the results of management in the reported cases . 
predisposing factors in bladder calculi . review of 100 cases . one hundred patients , aged twenty to ninety-two years , underwent 111 procedures for removal of bladder calculi . most patients ( 88 ) had some type of bladder outlet obstruction . two types of stones were identified : those that had apparently formed in the upper tract and been trapped in the bladder ( 17 cases ) and those that appeared to have formed in the bladder in the presence of various types of outlet obstruction . stone analysis revealed uric acid stones in 50 percent , calcium oxalate stones in 19 percent , and stones of mixed composition in 31 percent . five patients had metabolic abnormalities predisposing to stone formation ; in 2 cases , these abnormalities were discovered during the evaluation for stone disease . treatment depended on stone characteristics , associated pathology , and the general health of the patient . a review of the literature with regard to the morbidity and mortality of combining treatment of vesical calculi and bladder outlet obstruction secondary to prostatic obstruction is included . 
giant sclerosing leiomyoma of bladder presenting as chronic renal failure . the clinical and pathologic features of a case of giant sclerosing leiomyoma of the bladder in a male polynesian patient are reported . the presenting complication of chronic renal failure due to tumor envelopment of both ureters and consequent bilateral renal obstruction appears to be unique in the literature . 
percutaneous transperineal prostate cryosurgery using transrectal ultrasound guidance : animal model . cryosurgery has previously been used successfully to treat prostatic carcinoma . inability to monitor the freezing led to local complications that limited the use of this modality . recent studies have shown that monitoring of the freezing process can be accomplished using real-time ultrasound . in this study , transrectal ultrasound guidance was used to guide a cryoprobe percutaneously , using a transperineal approach , into the prostate . the extent of freezing was then monitored using ultrasound , taking care not to freeze the urethra or the rectum . six dogs had the procedure without any complications . this study demonstrates the feasibility of a noninvasive treatment for prostatic carcinoma . 
application of microwave tissue coagulation in partial nephrectomy . microwave tissue coagulation was used during partial nephrectomy in 10 mongrel dogs , without clamping the renal artery . there were no major complications , such as retroperitoneal hematoma , abscess formation , or macroscopic infarction of the kidney tissue related to this new procedure . the advantages of microwave coagulation are reduced blood loss , shorter operative time , and minimal risk of vascular injury . 
gastroesophageal reflux in infants . clinically significant gastroesophageal reflux occurs in one in 500 infants . symptoms resolve in 60 to 80 percent of infants by 18 months of age . thickened formula and position changes are often recommended . medication and surgical intervention may be needed in refractory cases . 
safety and efficacy of urokinase during elective coronary angioplasty . eighty-nine of 462 patients were treated with adjunctive urokinase during elective percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) , 26 % for unstable angina , 34 % for intracoronary thrombus , 27 % for intimal dissection , 10 % for abrupt closure , and 3 % for saphenous vein graft embolism . the 80 patients treated before abrupt closure ( group a ) were compared with 167 patients with similar profiles who did not receive urokinase ( group b ) . procedural success rates were similar . adverse cardiac events ( abrupt closure , myocardial infarction , emergency coronary artery bypass , or death ) in group a versus group b occurred in : 1 of 30 ( 3 % ) versus 5 of 27 ( 18.5 % ) ( p = 0.07 ) with intracoronary thrombus , 5 of 45 ( 9 % ) versus 18 of 110 ( 16.3 % ) with unstable angina , 1 of 12 ( 8 % ) versus 4 of 13 ( 31 % ) with unstable angina with intracoronary thrombus , 4 of 33 ( 12 % ) versus 14 of 97 ( 14.4 % ) with unstable angina without intracoronary thrombus , and 5 of 24 ( 20.8 % ) versus 6 of 66 ( 9 % ) with intimal dissection . hemorrhagic complications occurred in 11 % of patients who were treated with urokinase versus 9 % of patients who were not ( p = ns ) . no difference in blood transfusions existed . thus urokinase was found to be safe during elective ptca . in patients with intracoronary thrombus , urokinase appears to decrease the incidence of new adverse cardiac events , whereas in patients with intimal dissection it might have an adverse effect . 
histologic abnormalities of large and small coronary arteries , neural structures , and the conduction system of the heart found in postmortem studies of individuals dying from the toxic oil syndrome . hundreds died and thousands were poisoned by rapeseed oil adulterated with aniline and sold illegally in spain in 1981 . the clinical manifestations , now known as the toxic oil syndrome , include pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy plus widespread vascular and neural lesions in other organs . many of the late deaths ended with a scleroderma-like illness . because scleroderma involves the heart , in this study we examined the small and large coronary arteries , neural structures , and conduction system from eight victims dying with the toxic oil syndrome . dense fibrosis of the sinus node in two hearts resembled changes found in scleroderma . atrionodal junctional hemorrhages and cystic degeneration of the sinus node present in the other six hearts resembled changes found in lupus erythematosus . small and large coronary arteries exhibited focal fibromuscular dysplasia and a proliferative cystic myointimal degeneration . this latter abnormality was associated with sloughing of the inner wall and embolization of the detached fragment downstream in the same coronary artery . every heart had many degenerative lesions within nerves , ganglia , and the coronary chemoreceptor . both the arterial and neural abnormalities prominently involved the conduction system . based upon observations by others with experimental feeding of rapeseed oil containing either high or low erucic acid , we suggest that this oil must remain a major suspected cause of the toxic oil syndrome , particularly in conjunction with some as yet unexplained facilitative influence by oleoanilids . if this is so , it is important to reconsider the widely recommended use of any rapeseed oil product as a suitable food for man or other animals . 
time course of improvement in ventricular function after ablation of incessant automatic atrial tachycardia . a patient with dilated cardiomyopathy and supraventricular tachycardia presumed to be of sinus origin was referred for cardiac transplantation . the extreme rate of the tachycardia during exercise , profound fluctuations in heart rate , and the presence of an abnormal p wave axis suggested the diagnosis of incessant ectopic atrial tachycardia rather than compensatory sinus tachycardia . electrophysiologic study with endocardial activation sequence mapping confirmed the diagnosis of an ectopic left atrial automatic tachycardia , after which surgical cryoablation of the left atrial focus was carried out successfully and sinus rhythm was restored . serial radionuclide angiocardiograms obtained before and after surgery demonstrated a very rapid recovery of left ventricular function to nearly normal within the first month after surgery , followed by further improvement to normal over the next several months . the diagnosis of tachycardia-related cardiomyopathy should be seriously considered in any patient with apparently end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy and persistent resting tachycardia . 
effect of nisoldipine on hemodynamic responses to defibrillation . sequences of ventricular fibrillation-defibrillation cause transient hypertension ; we hypothesized that this " adrenergic overshoot " might be blunted by the functional antiadrenergic effect of the calcium channel blocking drug nisoldipine , with a potentially beneficial reduction in myocardial oxygen requirements . however , other calcium channel blocking drugs have been shown to reduce shock success for defibrillation , a deleterious effect . thus the purposes of this study were to assess the effect of nisoldipine on the hemodynamic responses to the sequences of ventricular fibrillation-defibrillation , and its effect on the energy requirements for defibrillation . in 16 dogs we administered intravenous nisoldipine ( 1 microgram/kg bolus followed by an infusion of 0.075 to 0.50 microgram/kg/min ) to lower mean blood pressure 10 % and 20 % below baseline . ventricular fibrillation was induced electrically , and shocks of varying energy levels ( 30 , 50 , and 100 joules ) were administered to determine defibrillation energy requirements . heart rates and blood pressures were recorded up to 3 minutes after each shock to determine hemodynamic responses . measurements were made before nisoldipine administration and again at the two levels of drug-induced blood pressure decline . we found that the usual systolic blood pressure " overshoot " after defibrillation ( typically maximum at 15 to 30 seconds after shocks ) was significantly blunted after nisoldipine administration ( p less than 0.05 ) . heart rate slowing after defibrillation ( a cholinergic response ) was not affected . nisoldipine did not alter shock success rates , which varied from 12 + / - 7 % se at 30 joules to 68 + / - 12 % at 100 joules . thus nisoldipine blunted the " adrenergic overshoot " of systolic blood pressure following defibrillation , a potentially beneficial effect , without altering the energy requirements for transthoracic defibrillation . 
coronary collateral recruitment : functional significance and relation to rate of vessel closure . studies in animals and humans have demonstrated the anatomic presence and functional significance of coronary collaterals . the extent of collateralization varies among species and among individuals . collateral vessels are usually adequate for preserving resting regional and global ventricular function in the face of coronary obstruction . during stress , however , collateral supply may be inadequate . collateral development is a time-dependent process during both the initial occlusion and following transient reflow and reclosure . therefore when a previously collateralized coronary occlusion is recanalized and then recloses , the extent of the resulting collateral recruitment will depend , at least in part , upon the period of reflow between the two occlusions . the longer the reflow period , the less enhanced will be the collateralization . this is illustrated in the cases presented and has also been demonstrated in animal studies . the exact mechanisms for this recurrent collateral recruitment need further study . 
epidemiology of heart failure . analysis of 34 years of follow-up of framingham study data provides clinically relevant insights into the prevalence , incidence , secular trends , prognosis , and modifiable risk factors for the occurrence of heart failure in a general population sample . heart failure was found to be highly prevalent , affecting about 1 % of persons in their 50s and rising progressively with age to afflict 10 % of persons in their 80s . the annual incidence also increased with age , from about 0.2 % in persons 45 to 54 years , to 4.0 % in men 85 to 94 years , with the incidence approximately doubling with each decade of age . women lagged slightly behind men in incidence at all ages . male predominance was because of a higher rate of coronary heart disease , which confers a fourfold increased risk of heart failure . heart failure , once manifest , was highly lethal , with 37 % of men and 33 % of women dying within 2 years of diagnosis . the 6-year mortality rate was 82 % for men and 67 % for women , which corresponded to a death rate fourfold to eightfold greater than that of the general population of the same age . sudden death was a common mode of exitus and accounted for 28 % of the cardiovascular deaths in men and 14 % in women with heart failure . hypertension and coronary disease were the predominant causes for heart failure and accounted for more than 80 % of all clinical events . factors reflecting deteriorating cardiac function were associated with a substantial increase in risk of overt heart failure . these include low vital capacity , sinus tachycardia , and ecg evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy . 
long-term follow-up of the first 56 patients treated with intracoronary self-expanding stents ( the lausanne experience ) . fifty-six patients treated with the self-expanding intracoronary stent for acute occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) or restenosis were followed for 24 to 43 months ( mean 34 ) . successful deployment and positioning were achieved in 55 of 56 patients . occlusion of the stent was documented in 8 patients , the earliest occurring 30 minutes and the latest 8 months after implantation . three of the occluded stents were recanalized by ptca . coronary artery bypass grafts ( cabg ) were required in 4 patients : 1 for symptomatic restenosis , 1 for left main stenosis adjacent to the stent and 2 for acute ischemia during the in-hospital stay ( less than 7 days ) . myocardial infarction occurred in the territory of the stented vessel in 8 patients . seven patients died between 1 day and 19 months after implantation . local bleeding complications occurred in 10 patients , with 5 requiring blood transfusion . restenosis within the stent was angiographically documented in 5 patients ( 9 % ) . a new lesion in the treated vessel was found in 10 patients , followed by implantation of a second stent in 5 and a third stent in 1 patient . medical treatment was instituted in the remaining 4 patients . forty-nine patients ( 88 % ) are alive . twenty-nine patients ( 51 % ) remained asymptomatic , and 44 ( 78 % ) are in a better functional class than before the implantation . eleven of 15 ( 79 % ) major complications ( acute occlusions or deaths ) occurred in patients who received a stent in the left anterior descending coronary artery . in conclusion , implantation of the self-expanding intracoronary stent appears to be a new therapeutic option for treating acute occlusion or restenosis after ptca . 
cardiac arrest in seattle : conventional versus amiodarone drug evaluation ( the cascade study ) . this randomized study evaluates survivors of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) not associated with a q-wave acute myocardial infarction who are deemed to be at a high risk of recurrence of vf . it compares the outcome of treatment with empirically administered amiodarone with the outcome of treatment with other antiarrhythmic agents guided by electrophysiologic testing or holter recording , or both . the goal of therapy guided by electrophysiologic testing is to suppress inducible ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) or vf . holter recording is used as the primary means of adjusting therapy only if patients are noninducible at the baseline electrophysiologic study . patients are stratified according to cardiac diagnosis , ejection fraction , and whether they had previously received an antiarrhythmic agent that failed to suppress their arrhythmias . the primary end point of the study is total cardiac mortality . the first patient was enrolled in a pilot study on april 26 , 1984 . by october 1988 , 142 patients had been enrolled in the full study and , as of may 1990 , 199 patients have been enrolled . compliance with therapy has been good , with no patients lost to follow-up and 8 % of patients , equal in both drug groups , crossing over to alternate therapy . baseline clinical characteristics remain similar in amiodarone and conventional drug groups . pulmonary toxicity with amiodarone is 7 % at 1 year , with no patients dying of pulmonary toxicity . in the first 142 patients , the overall 1-year cardiac mortality was 19 % , with a 17 % arrhythmic mortality ( either vf or presumed arrhythmic death ) . 
comparison of ambulatory left ventricular ejection fraction and blood pressure in systemic hypertension in patients with and without increased left ventricular mass . to evaluate the effects of long-standing systemic hypertension on left ventricular ( lv ) function during daily activities , ambulatory radionuclide monitoring of lv ejection fraction ( ef ) and blood pressure was performed during exercise and other structured activities in 31 hypertensive patients . patients were divided into 3 groups based on the absence of lv hypertrophy ( group 1 [ n = 16 ] , lv mass 107 + / - 12 g/m2 ) , presence of lv hypertrophy without electrocardiographic changes ( group 2 [ n = 10 ] , lv mass 141 + / - 8 g/m2 ) and lv hypertrophy with associated electrocardiographic changes ( group 3 [ n = 5 ] , lv mass 158 + / - 9 g/m2 ) . the groups were similar with respect to age , baseline medication , treated and untreated blood pressure , resting ef and treadmill exercise time . patients in group 3 had the longest history of hypertension . peak filling rate was normal in group 1 ( 2.9 + / - 0.4 end-diastolic volume/s ) , but reduced at rest in groups 2 ( 2.4 + / - 0.4 ) and 3 ( 2.1 + / - 0.3 ) . patients in group 1 had normal ef responses to exercise and mental stress testing , as well as during routine ambulatory activities . patients in group 2 had a blunted ef response to exercise , and those in group 3 had a significantly abnormal response . both group 2 and 3 patients demonstrated abnormal ef responses to mental stress , as well as cold pressor testing in association with significant increases in mean arterial pressure and marked reduction in diastolic filling rate . decreases in ef were also observed during routine patient monitoring in 3 group 3 patients and 4 group 2 patients . these events were associated with significantly increased blood pressure . 
clinical and doppler echocardiographic follow-up after percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty for aortic valve stenosis . percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty has been shown to increase the aortic orifice area and to improve clinical symptoms . however , there are only few data concerning long-term results after balloon valvuloplasty . in this study , 36 patients ( 11 men , 25 women , mean age 75 + / - 8 years ) were followed after balloon valvuloplasty for a period of up to 18 months by means of clinical parameters and repeated doppler echocardiographic measurements after 1 , 3 , 6 , 12 and 18 months . invasive measurements revealed a decrease of the systolic peak gradient from 78 + / - 24 to 38 + / - 13 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) , and an increase in the aortic orifice area from 0.58 + / - 0.23 to 0.93 + / - 0.2 cm2 ( p less than 0.001 ) . the doppler echocardiographic approach revealed that the maximal instantaneous gradient decreased from 96 + / - 26 to 67 + / - 22 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) . the aortic orifice area increased from 0.49 + / - 0.16 to 0.73 + / - 0.21 cm2 ( p less than 0.001 ) . three patients ( 8 % ) died in the hospital . after hospital discharge , 16 patients ( 44 % ) died and 8 patients ( 22 % ) underwent successful aortic valve replacement after a mean follow-up of 8 + / - 6 months . nine patients ( 25 % ) were alive after a follow-up period of 18 months . seven of these ( 19 % ) remained clinically improved . during follow-up , the doppler echocardiographic results revealed a continuous trend toward the preprocedural severity of the aortic valve stenosis . progression of restenosis assessed by doppler echocardiographic measurements was accelerated in the group of patients who subsequently died or underwent repeat balloon valvuloplasty or aortic valve replacement . 
isotonic high-sodium oral rehydration solution for increasing sodium absorption in patients with short-bowel syndrome . we compared the effect of a standard oral rehydration solution and a high-sodium polymeric-glucose solution on sodium absorption in short-bowel syndrome . six patients with high jejunostomy were tested in a random order with the standard solution or a solution containing maltodextrins ( 18 g glucidex 12/l ) enriched with 2.5 g nacl/l . solutions were administered via a nasogastric tube at a rate of 2 ml/min . jejunal effluent was collected during an 8-h period . the net 8-h fluid absorption was not significantly different in the two periods . glucose absorption was greater than 90 % of the administered amount for both solutions . net sodium absorption was greater for the maltodextrin solution than for the standard solution ( 56 + / - 12 vs 24 + / - 20 mmol , p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that replacement of glucose with maltodextrins and addition of sodium in the standard oral rehydration solution results in improved sodium absorption in short-bowel syndrome . 
growth in children from the wosera subdistrict , papua new guinea , in relation to energy and protein intakes and zinc status . in a cross-sectional study of 123 children aged 24-120 mo from the wosera subdistrict of papua new guinea , height , weight , hematocrit , hemoglobin , hair zinc , and presence of malaria were measured . two 24-h recalls were undertaken in 67 of the children aged 72-120 mo ; 52 % , 73 % , and 76 % had energy , protein , and zinc intakes , respectively , less than two-thirds of the fao/who/unu recommendations . stunting was prevalent ( 29 % ) ; 16 % were moderately wasted . the prevalence of stunting and hair zinc concentrations less than 1.68 mumol/g was gender related ; 38 % of males vs 20 % of females had z scores for height-for-age ( haz scores ) less than -2 ( p = 0.04 ) ; 26 % of males vs 11 % of females had hair zinc less than 1.68 mumol/g ( p less than 0.05 ) . analysis of variance showed that age , sex , hemoglobin , and log hair zinc influenced haz scores , depending on the age group ; both sex and the log of the hair zinc values were significant factors in the older children . stunting in worsera children was related to chronic deficits in energy and protein and was excerbated in the older male children by suboptimal zinc status . 
the management of retinal detachments associated with choroidal colobomas by vitreous surgery . we used vitreous surgery to treat seven patients ( eight eyes ) with complicated retinal detachments associated with choroidal colobomas . all eyes had large choroidal colobomas and no evidence of peripheral retinal breaks . small , atrophic breaks were detected in five of the eyes and were located in the base of the coloboma in four of the five eyes . adjunctive surgical techniques were necessary and included cyanoacrylate retinopexy in four eyes , silicone oil tamponade in five eyes , and retinectomy in two eyes . retinal reattachment was ultimately attained in seven of the eight eyes . the number of surgical procedures ranged from one to five , with an average of three . postoperative visual acuity of the eyes that underwent anatomically successful procedures ranged from 20/100 to light perception . proliferative vitreoretinopathy was the most frequent cause of redetachment , occurring in six of the eight eyes . 
postoperative complications after molteno implant surgery . we performed molteno implant surgery in one eye each of 41 patients with uncontrolled glaucoma . intraocular pressure was controlled ( intraocular pressure less than or equal to 18 mm hg ) in 32 eyes ( 78 % ) . the mean preoperative intraocular pressure was 40 + / - 13.2 mm hg , whereas the mean postoperative intraocular pressure was 16 + / - 6.6 mm hg . patients were followed up for an average of 16 months after the operation . visual acuity was unchanged in 23 eyes ( 56 % ) , improved in nine eyes ( 22 % ) , and poorer in nine eyes ( 22 % ) . the major complications included shallow anterior chamber and hypotony in six eyes ( 14.6 % ) , vitreous hemorrhage in two eyes ( 4.9 % ) , retinal detachment in one eye ( 2.4 % ) , and malignant glaucoma in two eyes ( 4.9 % ) . less grave complications included hyphema in four eyes ( 9.8 % ) , peripheral choroidal effusion in 15 eyes ( 36.6 % ) , obstruction of the tube in six eyes ( 14.6 % ) , recession of the tube into the angle in two eyes ( 4.9 % ) , erosion of the tube in one eye ( 2.4 % ) , and tenon 's cyst formation in three eyes ( 7.3 % ) . 
ovarian granulosa-stromal cell tumors are characterized by trisomy 12 . eleven ovarian granulosa-stromal cell tumors including 1 thecoma , 2 fibromas , 6 fibrothecomas , and 2 granulosa cell tumors , were karyotyped after direct harvest and/or short-term tissue culture . bilateral fibrothecomas from one patient appeared to lack cytogenetic aberrations : the remaining nine tumors were characterized by trisomy for chromosome 12 . cytogenetic aberrations in the two granulosa cell tumors were much less complex than those described previously in undifferentiated carcinomas ; accordingly cytogenetic analyses might be useful in distinguishing these categories . the consistent occurrence of trisomy 12 in different varieties of granulosa-stromal cell tumors suggests a common mechanism of oncogenesis within this diverse group of neoplasms . that mechanism probably involves promotion of low-grade , orderly cell proliferation . 
hairless micropig skin . a novel model for studies of cutaneous biology . reported here is the structural and immunohistochemical similarities between the yucatan hairless micropig ( hmp ) skin and that of humans . hairless micropig skin surface was composed of complex intersecting furrows that created geometric patterns remarkably similar to human skin surface glyphics . the dermal -- epidermal interface consisted of undulant downgrowths that interdigitated with dermal papillae . hairless micropig epidermis contained two morphologically distinct populations of basal keratinocytes ( serrated and nonserrated ) . similar heterogeneity has been seen only in human epidermis and primate palmar epidermis . immunohistochemistry revealed that the hmp epidermis is reactive with monoclonal and polyclonal antisera to keratin proteins . melanocytes reactive with antisera to s-100 protein , as in human skin , also were observed in hmp epidermis . organization of dermal extracellular matrix , including collagen and elastic fibers , and the organization and reactivity of the microvasculature with antisera to factor viii , were consistent with human skin . the costicosteroid-induced atrophy and subsequent rebound phenomenon after withdrawal of steroid observed in hmp skin was similar with that observed in humans . it is concluded that hmp skin approximates human skin significantly more precisely than most existing species and is an excellent model for studies of cutaneous physiology and pharmacology . 
susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3-induced chronic myocarditis maps near the murine tcr alpha and myhc alpha loci on chromosome 14 . this study was undertaken to determine the genetic control of host susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3 ( cvb3 ) - induced chronic myocarditis in a mouse model . an autosomal recessive autoimmune myocardial disease ( amd ) gene ( possibly more than one gene ) , which determined susceptibility to cvb3-induced chronic myocarditis in the a/j and dba/2j inbred mouse strains , was mapped to a segment of chromosome 14 . data from both the axb/bxa recombinant inbred ( ri ) strains and the b10.d2 ( 57n ) h-8b congenic mice supported this linkage relationship . analysis of the axb/bxa ri strain distribution patterns suggested that amd maps distal to the np-2 , tcr alpha , and myhc alpha loci . 
induction of inflammatory cell infiltration and necrosis in normal mouse skin by the combined treatment of tumor necrosis factor and lithium chloride . previously we reported that lithium chloride ( licl ) potentiates tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) - mediated cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo . here , using a murine normal skin model , it is shown that a subcutaneous injection of tnf plus licl induces acute dermal and subcutaneous inflammation and necrosis . histology showed a marked initial dermal and subcutaneous neutrophil infiltrate by approximately 2 hours , followed by a predominantly mononuclear infiltrate by 24 hours , which remained present for several days . tumor necrosis factor or licl alone induced negligible inflammation , disappearing after 6 hours ; furthermore there was never necrosis or ulceration of the overlying skin in case of single-agent application . in vitro studies showed that the combination of tnf and licl , but not either agent alone , was directly cytotoxic to fibroblastic cells of murine skin . no inflammatory infiltration was visible in tumors treated intratumorally or perilesionally with tnf plus licl , although the latter treatment resulted in a perilesional leukocyte infiltration . furthermore the combination of tnf and licl had no effect on macrophage cytotoxicity to l929 tumors . 
cultured human atherosclerotic plaque smooth muscle cells retain transforming potential and display enhanced expression of the myc protooncogene . the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells ( smc ) is critical to atherosclerotic plaque formation . the monoclonal hypothesis proposes that the stimulus for this smc proliferation is a mutational event . here we describe a procedure for growing human plaque smooth muscle cells ( p-smc ) in culture . we show that p-smcs derived from two patients differ from smc cultured from normal vascular tissue in expression of the protooncogene myc . one p-smc strain was extensively characterized ; these diploid , karyotypically normal cells have a finite life span in culture . ultrastructural examination revealed two populations , one with classic contractile smc appearance , the other , modulated to a synthetic state . northern blotting showed a 2 - to 6-fold and a 6 - to 11-fold enhanced expression of myc by p-smc , compared to smc derived from healthy human aorta ( ha-smc ) and saphenous vein ( hv-smc ) , respectively . in contrast , the p-smc and hv-smc expressed similar levels of message for the genes n-myc , l-myc , ha-ras , fos , sis , myb , ldl receptor , egf receptor , igf i receptor , igf ii , and hmg coa reductase . finally , although p-smcs are not tumorigenic , dna isolated from these cells is positive in the transfection-nude mouse tumor assay . myc , however , does not appear to be the transforming gene because no newly introduced human myc gene was detected in the p-smc-associated nude mouse tumor . thus human atherosclerotic p-smcs possess both an activated myc gene and a transforming gene that is retained throughout many cell passages . 
elective diagnostic laparoscopy . laparoscopy developed as a science at the turn of the century , and many scientists assisted in the evolution of this technique . however , it was many years before the multiple trocar system was developed that allowed internal organs to be moved and biopsies to be obtained . this has led to the development of numerous indications for elective diagnostic laparoscopy . adequate preparation and attention to instrumentation ensure the safety of this operation . elective diagnostic laparoscopy is a useful adjunct to many other diagnostic modalities such as , for instance , the assessment of abdominal pain , abdominal masses , fever of unknown origin , and gastrointestinal bleeding . in many other circumstances , such as the assessment of oncology cases , this modality is superior to conventional radiology because biopsy specimens may be obtained . if the procedure is correctly performed , the diagnostic yield is extremely high and the morbidity and mortality are low . the role of this important technique should not be underestimated by today 's practicing surgeon . 
emergency laparoscopy . unnecessary abdominal explorations in severely injured patients can be reduced by employing emergent or urgent laparoscopy in blunt abdominal trauma and the obscured , acute abdominal cases . in 150 blunt abdominal trauma cases , a mini-laparoscopy was used in the emergency room or the intensive care unit without major complications . in 56 % , the findings were negative . in 19 % , the laparoscopic findings were corroborated by surgery . in 25 % , a minimal to moderate hemoperitoneum was found and the laparoscopic impression dictated close observation . unnecessary exploration was avoided except in one case . in the elderly high-risk patient with a poor history , abdominal examination can be noninformative . laparoscopy can detect acute appendicitis or organ perforation . in the young female , appendicitis can be differentiated from pelvic inflammatory disease . laparoscopy is more accurate and gives a larger latitude for decision-making than lavage . it can also be useful in the obscured problematic abdominal case . 
traditional versus laparoscopic cholecystectomy . laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a minimally invasive procedure whereby the gallbladder is removed using laparoscopic techniques . the indications are similar to those for elective traditional cholecystectomy , but selection of patients is important for success . contraindications are currently evolving . patients with advanced cholecystitis , abdominal sepsis , ileus , bleeding disorders , pregnancy , and morbid obesity should not undergo this procedure . the procedure requires good traditional surgical skills , as well as additional laparoscopic ( and laser ) skills . operative time is slightly longer than for traditional cholecystectomy , but decreases with experience . morbidity is low , but there is a concern about bile duct injuries . mortality is very low ( 0 % ) and is comparable to traditional cholecystectomy ( 0.4 % ) . the major advantages of laparoscopic cholecystectomy are the short hospital stay ( average : 2 days ) and early return to normal activity ( 7 days ) . this results in a reduction in hospital costs . adequate training and credentialing are important processes to foster good patient outcomes . 
a new technique of surgical treatment of chronic duodenal ulcer without laparotomy by videocoelioscopy . we performed truncal posterior right vagotomy with lesser curve anterior gastric myotomy by videocoelioscopy on 10 patients ( 5 men and 5 women , ranging in age from 19 and 54 years , with a mean age of 32 years ) . all had a long history of chronic duodenal ulcer with a mean duration of symptoms of 3.8 years . the mean length of the operation was 60 minutes ( range : 55 to 110 minutes ) . there was no morbidity , and all patients were discharged after 5 days . the acid secretion tests under basal conditions and under insulin stimulation preoperatively and 1 month postoperatively showed a mean decrease in the basal output of 79.3 % and a mean decrease of 83.04 % in the maximal output . the fibroscopic control at the second postoperative month showed a complete healing of the ulcer in nine patients and a residual ulcer scar in one . no patients had any abdominal complaints . right truncal vagotomy and anterior lesser curve seromyotomy by videocoelioscopy is an efficient and elegant method of treating chronic duodenal ulcer , but it needs thorough experimental practice . 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy using intracorporeal lithotripsy . over a 13-month period ( november 1988 to december 1989 ) , we performed our first 104 laparoscopic cholecystectomies using an intracorporeal ultrasonic lithotripsy technique . the procedure in three of these patients was converted to an open operation because of hemorrhage with unexpected findings of cirrhosis in two patients and dense subhepatic adhesions in a third . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was successfully used in three other patients in whom common bile duct stones were identified . we encountered only three postoperative complications out of all the laparoscopic cholecystectomies performed . one complication was a biliary fistula that closed spontaneously 1 week after surgery . the remaining complications were attributable to abscesses , one subhepatic and one pelvic , which were aspirated and drained laparoscopically . there were no deaths . advantages of the laparoscopic approach included decreased perioperative pain , shortened hospitalization , absence of scar , and more rapid return to prehospitalization activities . 
safe performance of difficult laparoscopic cholecystectomies . laparoscopic cholecystectomy has been advocated for the treatment of uncomplicated symptomatic gallstone disease , but has not been widely advocated for the management of more complicated gallbladder disease such as acute cholecystitis , previous surgery , or common duct stones . during the last 9 months , 360 patients underwent laparoscopic removal of their gallbladder . a total of 138 had a complicated presentation , making surgery more difficult . this article discusses the management of these patients with acute cholecystitis , previous surgery , or common duct disease . using the described techniques , there were no complications or mortality . laparoscopic management of difficult gallbladder problems is safe and effective . 
the european experience with laparoscopic cholecystectomy . a retrospective survey of 7 european centers involving 20 surgeons who undertook 1,236 laparoscopic cholecystectomies was performed . the procedure was completed in 1,191 patients . conversion to open cholecystectomy was necessary in 45 patients ( 3.6 % ) either because of technical difficulty ( n = 33 ) , the onset of complications ( n = 11 ) , or instrument failure ( n = 1 ) . there were no deaths reported , and the total postoperative complication rate was 20 of 1,203 ( 1.6 % ) , with 9 being serious complications requiring laparotomy . the total incidence of bile duct damage was 4 of 1,203 . the median hospital stay was 3 days ( range : 1 to 27 days ) and the median time to return to full activity after discharge was 11 days ( range : 7 to 42 days ) . 
the baltimore experience with laparoscopic management of acute cholecystitis . laparoscopic cholecystectomy has rapidly emerged as a popular alternative to traditional laparotomy and cholecystectomy . acute cholecystitis has been considered to be a relative or absolute contraindication to laparoscopic surgery . after gaining extensive experience in laparoscopic biliary tract surgery , this procedure was attempted in 15 patients with acute cholecystitis . all patients were operated on within 72 hours of admission . in five patients , the laparoscopic procedure was converted to an open laparotomy ; in one patient , a localized abscess was found , and in the other four patients , extensive inflammation and edema precluded a safe dissection of the vascular and ductal structures . laparoscopic cholangiography was performed in 14 patients and proved valuable in demonstrating the ductal anatomy . patients were discharged an average of 2.7 days after the laparoscopic procedure . laparoscopic cholecystectomy may be safely performed by experienced surgeons in patients with acute cholecystitis . to ensure a low complication rate , a low threshold for converting the procedure to an open laparotomy must be maintained if the ductal and vascular anatomy can not be safely demonstrated . 
complications of laparoscopic cholecystectomy . the emergence of laparoscopic cholecystectomy as a viable alternative to traditional cholecystectomy has been greeted with enthusiasm by the surgical community . this new technique is not without complications , both potential and real . the complications associated with diagnostic laparoscopy are well documented , as are those associated with traditional cholecystectomy . all of these may also be seen with laparoscopic cholecystectomy . the incidence of their occurrence , however , may vary . it remains too early to evaluate the complication rates from this new procedure , as reports of large series are just beginning to emerge . early reports are encouraging but caution that bile duct injury , hemorrhage , and even death may occur . early enthusiasm for this new method must be tempered with care in its practice if complication rates are to be maintained at an acceptable level and the procedure is to earn a permanent place in the armamentarium of the surgeon . 
interruption of professional and home activity after laparoscopic cholecystectomy among french and american patients . with a laparoscopic approach , patients can undergo cholecystectomy with a shorter hospitalization , minimal pain , and quicker recovery . it has not been demonstrated , however , that patients actually return to work after laparoscopic cholecystectomy faster than the traditional 4 - to 6-week absence from work after a standard open procedure . a survey of 104 french and 84 american patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy revealed that postoperative discomfort was completely resolved in 2 weeks in 73 % of french and 93 % of american patients . all but 11 french and 5 american patients were back to normal home activities by 2 weeks after the operation . of the 35 american and 40 french patients who had professional activity outside the home , 63 % and 25 % , respectively , returned to work within 14 days . five ( 14 % ) of the american patients and 12 ( 30 % ) of the french patients returned to work 4 weeks or more after the operation . the amount of physical activity on the job correlated with the period off work , but , interestingly , at least six patients with very hard physical activity at work ( including construction workers ) were able to return to full work activity within 1 week . these data suggest that early return to work is possible and that pain resolves quickly after laparoscopic cholecystectomy . the economic benefit of having patients back on the job quickly , however , may be less than expected until cultural norms change with regard to leave of absence after major surgery . 
effect of thiopental on neurologic outcome following coronary artery bypass grafting to determine if thiopental reduces the incidence of neurologic sequelae after coronary artery surgery , we prospectively studied 300 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting . patients who had no history of neurologic or psychiatric illness were randomly assigned to receive either a thiopental infusion or a saline placebo infusion beginning with the administration of heparin and ending just after aortic decannulation . the patients received an opioid-relaxant anesthetic administered by an anesthesiologist who was not involved in this investigation and who was blinded to the test infusion . one of the investigators infused either saline or thiopental to produce an isoelectric electroencephalogram with 30-45 s between bursts . standardized neurologic examinations were performed preoperatively and on the 2nd and 5th postoperative days by one of the blinded investigators . the group of patients receiving thiopental required a longer time for awakening ( 6.4 + / - 3.9 vs. 4.0 + / - 2.4 h , mean + / - sd , p less than 0.05 ) and for tracheal extubation ( 22.4 + / - 18.4 vs. 17.4 + / - 9.6 h , p less than 0.05 ) , and a greater number of these patients were lethargic on the 2nd postoperative day . more patients receiving thiopental required vasoconstrictors during the thiopental loading and cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) periods , while a greater number of patients receiving placebo required vasodilators . a greater number of patients receiving thiopental required inotropic drugs during separation from cpb . despite the above differences , only 2 of the 151 patients in the placebo group ( 1.3 % ) and 5 of the 149 patients in the thiopental group ( 3.3 % ) experienced strokes ( p = 0.2535 ) . 
recovery profile after desflurane-nitrous oxide versus isoflurane-nitrous oxide in outpatients . thirty-eight healthy outpatients undergoing elective surgical procedures lasting 1-3 h were randomly assigned to receive either desflurane 3 % ( approximately 0.5 mac ) or isoflurane 0.6 % ( approximately 0.5 mac ) for maintenance of general anesthesia with nitrous oxide 60 % in oxygen after a standardized induction sequence consisting of fentanyl 3 micrograms.kg-1 , thiopental 4 mg.kg-1 , and succinylcholine 1-1 .5 mg.kg-1 , intravenously . although anesthetic conditions were similar during operations in the two treatment groups , significant differences were noted in the recovery profiles as measured by elimination kinetics , psychometric testing , and visual analog scales ( to assess subjective feelings ) . the time required for the end-tidal concentration to decrease by 50 % was 2.5 + / - 0.8 min for desflurane vs. 9.5 + / - 3.4 min for isoflurane ( mean + / - standard deviation [ sd ] ) . times to awakening and ability to follow simple commands were significantly shorter after desflurane than after isoflurane ( 5.1 + / - 2.4 vs. 10.2 + / - 7.7 min 6.5 + / - 2.3 min vs. 11.1 + / - 7.9 min , respectively ) . postoperatively , patients who received desflurane exhibited less impairment of cognitive function ( as measured using the digit-symbol substitution test ) than did those who received isoflurane . furthermore , visual analog scores indicated that patients receiving desflurane experienced significantly less discomfort ( pain ) , drowsiness , fatigue , clumsiness , and confusion in the early postoperative period . we conclude that desflurane may offer clinical advantages over isoflurane when used for maintenance of anesthesia during outpatient surgical procedures . 
postoperative myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery . s.p.i. research group . cardiac morbidity and mortality after coronary artery bypass graft ( cabg ) surgery continue to be significant problems . to determine the prevalence , characteristics , and prognostic importance of postoperative myocardial ischemia after cabg surgery , the authors monitored 50 patients continuously for 10 perioperative days with the use of two-lead electrocardiography ( ecg ) . ecg changes consistent with ischemia were defined as a reversible st depression of 1 mm or greater or an elevation of 2 mm or greater from baseline , lasting at least 1 min . baseline was adjusted for positional changes and temporal drift . all episodes were verified , with the use of the ecg monitor printout ( ecg complexes ) , by two independent blinded investigators . clinical care was not controlled by study protocol , and clinicians were unaware of the research data collected . twenty-six of 50 patients ( 52 % ) had 207 episodes of perioperative ischemia ( 3,409 ischemic minutes ) . postoperatively , ischemia developed in 48 % of patients , compared with 12 % preoperatively and 10 % intraoperatively before bypass . postoperative ischemia was most common in the early period ( postoperative days [ pods ] 0-2 ; 38 % of patients ) , peaking during the first 2 h after revascularization , and less common during the late postoperative period ( pods 3-7 ; 24 % of patients ) . almost all ( 120 of 122 ; 98 % ) postoperative episodes ( after tracheal extubation ) were asymptomatic : only 9 of 70 ( 13 % ) early episodes were detected by clinical ecg monitoring . postoperative ischemia did not appear to be related to acute changes in myocardial oxygen demand : only 39 % of the postoperative episodes were preceded by a greater than 20 % increase in heart rate . however , tachycardia persisted throughout the postoperative week ( 22-33 % of all heart rates greater than 100 beats per min ) , and patients with postoperative ischemia ( pod 0 ) more frequently had tachycardia ( median 43 % vs. 12 % of the time ; p less than 0.01 ) . five adverse cardiac outcomes occurred on the day of surgery ; all five were preceded by postoperative ischemia , three by intraoperative ischemia before bypass , and none by preoperative ischemia . patients with late postoperative ischemia did not have an adverse cardiac outcome . the authors conclude the following : 1 ) ischemia is more prevalent postoperatively than preoperatively or intraoperatively before bypass ; 2 ) the incidence of postoperative ischemia peaks shortly after revascularization , during which time it is symptomatically silent , difficult to detect , and related to adverse cardiac outcome ; 3 ) late postoperative ischemia also is silent , but it is less prevalent and not associated with in-hospital adverse cardiac outcome ; and 4 ) a relationship between ischemia and persistently elevated postoperative heart rate may exist and warrants additional investigation . 
enhanced mobilization of intracellular ca2 + induced by halothane in hepatocytes isolated from swine susceptible to malignant hyperthermia . halothane , in a dose-dependent manner , induced the release of intracellular ca2 + in hepatocytes prepared from swine . the magnitude of the release induced by halothane was greater for hepatocytes prepared from animals susceptible to malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) than for those from normal swine . two different methods were used to ascertain the release of ca2 + induced by halothane : 1 ) the release of 45ca2 + from nonmitochondrial stores of saponin-permeabilized hepatocytes was measured ; and 2 ) changes in luminescence from intact hepatocytes loaded with the ca2 ( + ) - sensitive photoprotein aequorin were recorded . it was also observed that , although 1,4,5-inositol trisphosphate ( ip3 ) , guanosine-5-triphosphate , and arachidonic acid all induced a significant release of 45ca2 + from permeabilized swine hepatocytes , only the quantities of 45ca2 + released by ip3 were significantly greater for the hepatocytes prepared from the animals susceptible to mh . these data indicate an abnormal ca2 + homeostasis in hepatocytes isolated from swine susceptible to mh , which supports the hypothesis that membrane systems from multiple organs may be affected in this genetic disorder . 
