eeg correlation of improvement in hemolytic-uremic syndrome after plasma infusion . we report a previously undescribed electroencephalographic pattern of epochs of diffuse delta background ( 85-240 sec ) alternating with epochs of classic " burst suppression " ( 90-270 sec ) in a 13-month-old girl with hemolytic-uremic syndrome . a dramatic electroencephalographic improvement was evident on continuous monitoring of cerebral function 3 hours after initiating fresh frozen plasma infusion , well before any clinical improvement was apparent . this patient , in addition to the unusual electroencephalographic findings , illustrates the role of continuous electrophysiologic monitoring of cerebral function and supports the use of fresh frozen plasma in hemolytic-uremic syndrome . 
reversible myopathy due to labetalol . a severe , generalized myopathy developed in 2 children treated with labetalol . an 11-year-old girl and a 14-year-old boy demonstrated proximal weakness and markedly elevated creatine kinase levels during labetalol therapy . clinical improvement began immediately when labetalol administration was halted ; muscle strength was normal within 2 months . muscle biopsies were consistent with rhabdomyolysis . 
renal replacement treatment for diabetic patients in newcastle upon tyne and the northern region , 1964-88 . objectives -- to review the experience of renal replacement treatment in diabetic patients treated in newcastle upon tyne and the northern region from 1964 to 1988 , and to compare the morbidity and mortality of diabetic patients treated with dialysis or transplantation with those of matched controls of non-diabetic patients . design -- retrospective study of clinical case notes . setting -- renal units of the northern region , particularly that in newcastle upon tyne . patients -- all 65 diabetic patients treated by renal replacement treatment in newcastle upon tyne from 1964 to 1987 ; 42 diabetic patients were matched with 42 non-diabetic patients according to age , sex , year of starting treatment , and type of treatment ( dialysis or transplantation ) . main outcome measures -- sex , age , renal biopsy findings , blood pressure , history of diabetic treatment , and plasma creatinine concentration at the start of renal replacement treatment . history of renal replacement treatments , suitability for transplantation , history of transplantation , cumulative survival , and cause of death during follow up . survival of technique , cumulative survival of the first peritoneal catheter and history of peritonitis in patients treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ; source of graft , histocompatibility antigens , duration of associated stay in hospital , and graft survival in patients receiving renal or pancreatic transplant . results -- 1259 patients with chronic renal failure were accepted for renal replacement treatment in newcastle upon tyne , of whom 65 ( 5 % ) had diabetes . the first was accepted in 1974 , and between 1974 and 1980 another 15 were treated ( mean age 42 years ; 4 % of new patients ) . from 1981 to 1987 , 49 diabetic patients ( mean age 44 ; 9 % of new patients ) were treated . fifty patients ( 77 % ) had insulin dependent diabetes and the remaining 15 ( 23 % ) non-insulin dependent diabetes . on average , the patients were aged 25 ( range 5-57 ) when diabetes was first diagnosed and 44 ( range 24-70 ) at the start of renal replacement treatment . the mean age at the start of treatment was 40 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes and 58 for patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes . transplantation was performed in 33 of the diabetic patients , whose mean age was lower than that of those who did not receive a transplant ( 41 v 48 respectively , p less than 0.05 ) . comparison between the 42 diabetic patients and matched controls showed that the overall survival at five years was 46 % and 77 % respectively . the three year survival of the diabetic patients who did not receive a transplant was poor ( 41 % v 79 % respectively ) . of patients transplanted , survival at five years was 73 % in the diabetic patients and 90 % in the controls . however , there was no significant difference in the five year graft survival ( 64 % v 46 % respectively ) . conclusions -- diabetes adversely affects morbidity and mortality in patients having renal replacement treatment , but renal transplantation seems to be the best option for treating diabetic patients with end stage renal failure . 
outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus . objective -- to compare the outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus and in non-diabetic patients with end stage renal failure . design -- retrospective comparison of cases and matched controls . setting -- renal unit , western infirmary , glasgow , providing both dialysis and renal transplantation . patients -- 82 diabetic patients starting renal replacement treatment between 1979 and 1988 , compared with 82 matched non-diabetic controls with renal failure and 39 different matched controls undergoing renal transplantation . main outcome measures -- patient characteristics , history of smoking , prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy and myocardial ischaemia at start of renal replacement treatment ; survival of patients with renal replacement treatment and of patients and allografts with renal transplantation . results -- the overall survival of the diabetic patients during the treatment was 83 % , 59 % , and 50 % at one , three , and five years . survival was significantly poorer in the diabetic patients than the controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . particularly adverse features for outcome at the start of treatment were increasing age ( p less than 0.01 ) and current cigarette smoking ( relative risk ( 95 % confidence interval ) 2.28 ( 0.93 to 4.84 ) , p less than 0.05 ) . deaths were mainly from cardiac and vascular causes . the incidence of peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis was the same in diabetic patients and controls ( 49 % in each group remained free of peritonitis after one year ) , and the survival of renal allografts was not significantly worse in diabetic patients ( p less than 0.5 ) . conclusions -- renal replacement treatment may give good results in diabetic patients , although the outlook remains less favourable than for non-diabetic patients because of coexistent , progressive vascular disease , which is more severe in older patients . 
flexible cystoscopy as an adjunct to extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy . ancillary procedures associated with extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy ( eswl ) include placement and subsequent removal of double pigtail ureteric stents . a simple new technique has been developed for the insertion of these stents . using the flexible cystoscope , the procedure is performed on an out-patient basis under local anaesthesia . placement of the stents was successful in 30/34 patients and removal was successful in 14/14 patients . 
renal carcinoma in a solitary kidney . we studied the clinical and pathological features of 26 patients with renal carcinoma of a solitary kidney , including 6 treated at this hospital . four patients had a contracted kidney and 22 had previously undergone nephrectomy . partial nephrectomy was performed in 16 patients , enucleation of the tumour in 5 and radical nephrectomy in 5 because of the size of the tumour . ex vivo surgery was carried out in 4 patients . the duration of ischaemia ranged from 15 to 365 min but was longer in those who underwent ex vivo surgery ( 149 to 365 min ) . of the 21 patients who underwent partial nephrectomy or enucleation , the serum creatinine level increased ( greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl ) post-operatively in 16 patients , of whom 9 required temporary haemodialysis . no recurrence has been noted in those who underwent partial nephrectomy , but 1 patient who underwent enucleation of the tumour developed a solitary pancreatic metastasis 2 years 6 months after surgery and was treated by a partial pancreatectomy . kidney-preserving surgical procedures are considered to improve the quality of life , but careful follow-up is necessary . 
use of the double pigtail stent in stone retrieval following unsuccessful ureteroscopy . insertion of a double pigtail stent is known to cause ureteric dilatation . we analysed the effect of an indwelling double pigtail stent on the success rate of calculus extraction by second ureteroscopy when the initial ureteroscopy fails . over a 12-month period , a first ureteroscopy failed in 42 patients ; 30 were then treated by ureteroscopy combined with a ureteric stent and 12 were treated without a ureteric stent . the group with an indwelling stent had a successful second ureteroscopy or spontaneously passed the calculus in 24 cases ( 84 % ) compared with 5 unstented cases ( 45 % ) . ureterolithotomy was necessary in 2 patients with a stent and 3 with no stent . it was concluded that following failed ureteroscopic manipulation of calculi , insertion of a double pigtail stent was associated with a higher subsequent success rate for removal of stone by ureteroscopy and a consequent lower rate of ureterolithotomy . 
immunofluorescent and histochemical staining confirm the identification of the many diseases called interstitial cystitis . interstitial cystitis comprises a complex of diseases typified by symptoms of pelvic pain . functional complaints do not aid the clinician in determining loss of anatomical capacity . histochemical staining with pas-colloidal iron/van geison 's counterstain offers improved diagnostic ability for the pathologist and correlates well with immunofluorescent findings . four distinct diseases can be identified through immunofluorescent staining , indicating that each is the result of different responses of the urothelium and endothelium to injury . loss of bladder capacity associated with these diseases can be expected with age , but immunofluorescent staining for igm within the capillaries of the interstitium is a more sensitive predictor . 
do women with idiopathic sensory urgency have early interstitial cystitis ? interstitial cystitis is rarely considered as a cause of urinary symptoms in referrals to gynaecology clinics . recent concepts in the diagnosis of this condition mean that it is emerging as a much more common entity , with both early and late forms of the disease being described . mast cell density in the detrusor muscle has been reported to be useful as a disease marker to substantiate the diagnosis of interstitial cystitis where no classical diagnostic features exist . we assessed mast cell counts in bladder biopsies from 27 women with idiopathic sensory urgency and 10 control patients about to undergo a colposuspension procedure for pure genuine stress incontinence ; 30 % of the study group had a clear increase in the detrusor muscle mast cell population ( detrusor mastocytosis ) . no control patient showed such an increase . early interstitial cystitis should be considered as a possible cause of lower urinary tract symptoms in patients with apparently idiopathic sensory urgency . 
cell cycling in bladder carcinoma determined by monoclonal antibody ki67 . current methods of predicting prognosis in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder fail to provide consistently reliable information about future tumour behaviour . the monoclonal antibody ki67 recognises an antigen present in actively dividing cells and ki67 reactivity has been shown to correlate with conventional prognostic indicators in several tumours . in this study , ki67 antibody was used to determine the proportions of cells undergoing active division in 26 transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder . the proportion of cells stained in muscle invasive tumours ( 12.3 + / - 5.4 % ) was significantly greater than in superficial tumours ( 4.3 + / - 1.9 % ) and poorly differentiated tumours showed significantly greater proportions of cells staining compared with well or moderately well differentiated tumours . these results show that ki67 reactivity correlates with high tumour stage and poor differentiation . ki67 staining provides an easy method of determining tumour cell turnover that might provide additional prognostic information . 
superficial bladder cancer in patients under 40 years of age . efficacy of topical prophylaxis . in patients under the age of 40 years with primary superficial bladder cancer the efficacy of adjuvant topical treatment was the same as in elderly patients ( recurrences 23 % , progression rate 8 % ) . patients should therefore be treated on the basis of stage and grade of the tumour regardless of their age . 
cobb 's collar -- a forgotten entity . cobb 's collar or moormann 's ring is a stricture of the bulbar urethra which is largely unrecognised but has considerable relevance urologically as the site of congenital or post-instrumental strictures . the history , anatomy , embryology and surgical importance are reported . 
permanent external striated sphincter stents in patients with spinal injuries . nine patients with complete quadriplegia underwent external striated sphincter stenting with the wallstent in place of an external striated sphincterotomy . although suprapubic catheters were placed to provide an outlet should problems develop with the stent , they were successfully removed within 6 weeks in all but 1 patient . complete bladder emptying with reduced voiding pressures was achieved , together with a significant reduction in the duration of hyper-reflexic contractions . epithelialisation of the stent was almost complete within 3 months and intermittent catheterisation or endoscopy ( and resection ) is possible through the stent . although this is a preliminary report of this new technique , it is hoped that sphincter stenting will provide a rapid , safe and effective method of treating high pressure hyper-reflexia and detrusor sphincter dyssynergia in quadriplegic patients . 
symptoms versus flow rates versus urodynamics in the selection of patients for prostatectomy . many prostatectomies are performed on the basis of symptoms alone ; 39 % of patients referred by their family doctors and 23 % of patients who were on waiting lists for prostatectomy of other hospitals , but who had not undergone any urodynamic investigations , were found to be unobstructed on urodynamic criteria . a screening peak urinary flow rate of 12 ml/s or less was associated with urodynamic evidence of obstruction in 95 % of cases ; 35 % of patients with symptoms of outflow obstruction and a flow rate greater than 12 ml/s were also found to be obstructed . one year post-operatively , 84 % of patients who were selected for surgery on combined symptomatic and urodynamic criteria were pleased symptomatically with their result . the failure of detrusor instability to resolve following prostatectomy was associated with symptomatic failure of treatment . residual obstruction was demonstrated in 5 patients who had undergone prostatectomy and were asymptomatic at this time . this study illustrates that objective measures are necessary in the assessment of patients prior to prostatectomy in order to select only patients who are obstructed . the importance of a screening flow rate is emphasised . all patients who underwent surgery had cystometric evidence of obstruction but the symptomatic results of surgery were no better than the results in patients who had been assessed according to non-urodynamic selection criteria . we have thus failed to identify a need for routine cystometry in the pre-operative assessment of these patients . cystometry does , however , have a role in assessing patients with pre-operative flow rates greater than 12 ml/s and in those who remain symptomatic following prostatectomy . 
pathological classification and follow-up of prostatic lesions initially diagnosed as " suspicious of malignancy " . sections from a series of prostatic specimens ( n = 44 ) in which the initial diagnosis implied a suspicion of malignancy were reviewed and the patients followed up ( group 1 ) . the aim was to categorise the morphological appearances according to current criteria and to determine the natural history of any pre-malignant lesions within this group . a " control " series of patients ( n = 40 ) in whom the primary diagnosis was benign were also reviewed and their course followed ( group 2 ) . the heterogeneity of the abnormalities in group 1 was striking . of the 44 cases , pre-malignant lesions were seen in 8 , microinvasive adenocarcinoma in 11 and lesions not now considered pre-malignant in the remaining 25 . none of the 8 patients with pre-malignant lesions developed clinical evidence of carcinoma over a follow-up period of 8 to 12 years . in contrast , 3 of the 11 diagnosed on review as having microscopic invasive adenocarcinoma developed clinically evident tumour within 5 years of surgery . of the 25 patients whose prostatic lesions were considered benign , 2 developed carcinoma 12 and 13 years after surgery . only 1 of the 40 patients in group 2 had a pre-malignant lesion and he did not develop tumour within 10 years . however , adenocarcinoma was diagnosed incidentally in 1 patient 3 years after surgery . it was concluded that there is a need to standardise interpretation and reporting of pre-malignant lesions and microscopic foci of adenocarcinoma in the prostate . the limited results on the course of pre-malignant lesions diagnosed incidentally in patients over 60 years of age do not indicate that follow-up would have prompted the early diagnosis of invasive disease . 
granulomatous orchitis . review of 15 cases . granulomatous orchitis is a rare lesion of the testis which can clinically simulate malignancy . the clinical , radiological and pathological features of 15 patients are presented and discussed . 
myocarditis or acute myocardial infarction associated with interleukin-2 therapy for cancer . the hearts of eight patients aged 22 to 67 years ( mean , 41 years ) who died during or within 4 days of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) based immunotherapy for treatment of renal cell carcinoma or melanoma were studied at necropsy . death resulted from combined cardiorespiratory failure in two patients , sepsis in four patients , acute myocardial infarction in one patient , and myocarditis in one patient . transmural left ventricular necrosis was present in one of the two patients with significant atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing . noninfectious myocarditis was present in five patients : the inflammatory infiltrate was lymphocytic in four and composed of a mixture of eosinophils and lymphocytes in one . although treatment-related deaths associated with high-dose il-2 therapy are uncommon ( 1.5 % in 652 consecutive patients ) , the potential for significant myocardial ischemia or myocarditis exists , and careful monitoring for arrhythmias or myocardial failure is warranted . 
pathologic delineation of the papillonodular type of cystic partially differentiated nephroblastoma . a review of 11 cases . eleven cases of a previously unrecognized papillonodular variant of cystic partially differentiated nephroblastoma ( cpdn ) are described . this type of cpdn has all the features of the conventional type of cpdn ; however , in addition , there are grossly demonstrable papillonodular projections extending from the septa into the cyst lumina . the septa do not show any expansile tumor masses . like most cases of the conventional type , this new type of cpdn was usually diagnosed in infants . nephrectomy ( total in 10 and partial in 1 ) was done in these cases . additional chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy was given in seven cases . no recurrence was noted during the period extending from 21 months to 8 years in the eight cases in which follow-up data are available . nephrectomy with regular follow-up visits for possible recurrence may be the management of choice . pathologists should be aware of this variant of cpdn so that overtreatment can be avoided . the revised criteria for cpdn can be summarized as follows : ( 1 ) the discrete entirely cystic tumor contains luminal papillonodules in some cases . ( 2 ) septa and the papillonodules , when present , are the only solid portion of the tumor and contain blastemal cells admixed with their normal and aberrant derivatives . ( 3 ) the tumor without and with papillonodules is classified as a conventional and papillonodular type of cpdn , respectively . 
acute effects of captopril and ibuprofen on proteinuria in patients with nephrosis . captopril decreases protein excretion in patients with nephrosis . to evaluate whether captopril has an acute antiproteinuric effect and to evaluate the role of changes in renal hemodynamics or glomerular permselectivity on this effect , renal clearance studies were performed in patients without diabetes but with nephrosis . protein excretion and renal hemodynamics were measured at baseline and after the administration of captopril . to measure the contribution of renal prostaglandins , patients were restudied on a separate day , after the combined administration of captopril and the prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor ibuprofen . both treatments significantly reduced mean protein excretion , but the change was greater with combined therapy than with captopril alone ( 40.6 % vs 20.0 % ) . mean glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) decreased by 4.8 % ( not significant ) and 16.5 % ( p less than 0.001 ) , and filtration fraction ( ff ) decreased by 13.6 % ( p less than 0.001 ) and 14.9 % ( p less than 0.001 ) after captopril alone and combined therapy , respectively . no significant correlation was found between changes in proteinuria and changes in gfr or ff after treatment with captopril alone . in contrast , the decrease in proteinuria correlated with the change in gfr after combined drug administration ( r = 0.68 , p = 0.06 ) . the ratio of immunoglobulin g to albumin clearance , an index of glomerular permselectivity , was unaffected by captopril but decreased significantly ( by 43 % ) after combined drug administration . the results suggest that the acute antiproteinuric effect of captopril is not due to changes in ff , gfr , or glomerular perselectivity . the addition of ibuprofen enhances the antiproteinuric effect of captopril by decreasing the gfr as well as by enhancing the permselectivity of the glomerular capillary membrane . 
suppression of urinary albumin excretion in diabetic rats by 4 ' ( imidazol-1-yl ) acetophenone , a selective inhibitor of thromboxane synthesis . thromboxane contributes to the regulation of glomerular hemodynamics in experimental models of diabetes and has been implicated as mediator in some models of glomerular injury . in the present study we examined urinary albumin , protein , and thromboxane b2 ( txb2 ) excretion during the 170 days after induction of diabetes by injection of streptozotocin in insulin-treated moderately hyperglycemic ( 200 to 400 mg/dl glucose ) rats ( sdrs ) . the effects of a thromboxane synthesis inhibitor , 4 ' - ( imidazol-1-yl ) acetophenone ( txi ) ( 100 mg/kg/day ) on these parameters were also assessed . urinary txb2 and albumin excretion in sdrs was not different from that in normal rats between 7 and 90 days but were three times higher than normal in sdrs at 125 and 170 days after induction of diabetes . in sdrs , urinary protein excretion was higher than in controls at 170 days but not at earlier time points . inulin clearance ( cin ) of sdrs was significantly higher than control values at 7 and 90 days and was not influenced by txi during this period . at 170 days cin was not significantly different in sdrs and normal rats . by contrast , albumin clearance ( caib ) and fractional caib were elevated in sdrs when compared with those values in normal rats . treatment of sdrs with txi for 170 days completely prevented the rise in urinary txb2 , albumin , and protein excretion , as well as the rise in fractional caib , but did not alter prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) excretion . txi also increased cin in sdrs to levels that were significantly higher than normal at 170 days . txi had no significant effect on urinary pge2 , txb2 , albumin , or protein excretion or on cin in normal rats and did not influence blood pressure or blood glucose in normal rats or sdrs . the results suggest a role for thromboxane in the mediation of albuminuria in the sdr . 
posttransplant anti-glomerular basement membrane nephritis in related males with alport syndrome . this report describes the development of anti-glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) glomerulonephritis after kidney transplantation in related males with alport syndrome . antibodies in sera from one of these patients stained normal gbm , bowman 's capsule , tubular basement membranes , and epidermal basement membranes but did not stain tissues from an unrelated alport male . the target antigen was found to be a 26 kd peptide of the noncollagenous domain of basement membrane collagen . this study provides further evidence of the importance of abnormalities of basement membrane collagen in the pathogenesis of the alport nephropathy . we speculate that certain mutations at the alport locus , such as large intragenic deletions or frame-shift mutations , may be associated with failure to develop immune tolerance to epitopes on this 26kd peptide . in the setting of permissive immune response and regulation , transplantation of a normal kidney may result in the generation of anti-gbm antibodies . 
extradural implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators . a technique for extradural deafferentation of the s2 to s5 segments and extradural implantation of stimulating electrodes is described , and its application to twelve patients with spinal cord lesions is reported . nine patients use their implants for micturition , and seven are fully continent . the advantages and disadvantages of this technique compared with the more usual intrathecal procedure are discussed . 
therapy of renal cell carcinoma with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells : phase ii experience with a hybrid bolus and continuous infusion interleukin-2 regimen . forty-seven patients with metastatic or unresectable renal cell carcinoma were treated with interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) - cell therapy , using a hybrid il-2 regimen . il-2 was administered initially by intravenous bolus ( 10 ( 5 ) u/kg [ cetus corp , emeryville , ca ] every 8 hours for 3 days ) during the priming phase , and subsequently by continuous infusion ( 3 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2 for 6 days ) ; during this second treatment period , in vitro-generated lak cells were administered . despite selection of patients for good performance status ( ps ) ( 29 , ps 0 ; 18 , ps 1 ) prior nephrectomy ( 43 of the 47 patients ) , and low tumor burden , the response rate was low ( two complete [ crs ] and two partial responses [ prs ] , for an overall objective response rate of 9 % ) . toxicity was comparable to that experienced with the high-dose bolus regimen . these results suggest that the dose and schedule of il-2 administration may influence the likelihood of response to il-2 in renal cell carcinoma . 
phase i study of interleukin-2 and interferon alfa-2a as outpatient therapy for patients with advanced malignancy . twenty-six patients were treated in this phase i study with the combination of interleukin-2 ( il2 ) administered as a continuous infusion and interferon alfa-2a ( ifn alpha-2a ) administered intramuscularly to patients in an outpatient setting . the maximum-tolerated dose of both agents given as outpatient therapy was 2 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2 days 1 to 5 of il2 and 9 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2 days 1 , 3 , and 5 of ifn alpha-2a for 4 consecutive weeks . a 2 - to 4-week rest period was permitted after each 4 weeks of treatment . fatigue was the treatment-limiting toxicity , and serious clinical or laboratory abnormalities occurred infrequently during this study . patients with colon cancer metastatic to the liver tolerated treatment worse than patients with other tumors . twelve of the 15 patients with renal cell cancer were assessable for response determinations . of these 12 patients , three exhibited complete tumor regression , three have had partial objective regression , and three patients experienced stabilization of rapidly progressive disease . this therapy appears to be well tolerated in an outpatient treatment setting and shows significant activity against advanced renal cell cancer . 
combined versus sequential chemo-endocrine therapy in advanced prostate cancer : final results of a randomized southwest oncology group study . cytotoxic chemotherapy has not provided survival benefit in metastatic prostate cancer , although it has been used most frequently in patients with far-advanced , refractory disease . to evaluate the effects of chemotherapy given earlier in the course of the disease , the southwest oncology group ( swog ) performed a randomized trial between september 1982 and october 1986 comparing endocrine therapy ( diethylstilbestrol [ des ] or orchiectomy ) alone followed by cyclophosphamide-adriamycin ( doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ) chemotherapy at progression versus initial combined chemo-endocrine therapy . one hundred forty-three patients were registered , and only six were declared ineligible . patients on the combined chemo-endocrine therapy arm had a slightly higher response rate ( 63 % ) compared with endocrine therapy alone ( 48 % ) . a log-linear model of tumor response and treatment arm adjusted for the stratification factors favored the combination arm ( p = .059 ) . only three of 27 patients on the endocrine therapy alone arm had an objective partial response when crossed over to chemotherapy , while two others had stable disease . despite the difference in initial response rate , time to treatment failure and survival were identical in the two treatment arms . seventy-seven percent of patients on the initial endocrine therapy alone arm have died ( median survival , 25.6 months ) compared with 78 % on the chemo-endocrine therapy arm ( median survival , 22.0 months ) . no significant effect of treatment on survival was observed even after adjustment for the stratification variables in a cox regression model . exploratory survival analyses with patients on both arms combined did show a marginally significant time to treatment failure and survival advantage for patients treated with des rather than orchiectomy as initial endocrine therapy . eighty-six percent of patients treated by orchiectomy have died compared with only 65 % of those treated with des . these data do not support the addition of cytotoxic chemotherapy to initial endocrine therapy in patients with metastatic prostate cancer . 
cardiovascular effects of microinjection of angiotensin ii in the brainstem of renal hypertensive rats . the cardiovascular effects of microinjection of angiotensin ii ( aii ) into the area postrema ( ap ) , nucleus of the solitary tract ( nts ) and rostroventrolateral medulla were studied in urethane anesthetized sham-normotensive ( nt ) and two-kidney , one-clip renal hypertensive rats . microinjection of aii ( 2-2000 ng ) in the ap of renal hypertensive rats elicited a dose-dependent decrease in blood pressure , heart rate and renal sympathetic nerve activity . similar effects were observed in the nts . in the nt rats , low doses of aii ( 2 and 20 ng ) , either in the ap or nts , were also depressor . high doses of aii ( 200-2000 ng ) were needed to observe a modest pressor effect in the nt animals . a decrease in heart rate and renal sympathetic activity was observed with the pressor effect . the aii-antagonist , [ sar1 , val5 , ala8 ] - aii , into the nts or ap increased blood pressure and heart rate and inhibited the cardiovascular effects of low doses of aii in both group of rats . in contrast , [ sar1 , val5 , ala8 ] aii did not affect the pressor action of high doses of aii in the nt group . while the microinjection of aii into the rostroventrolateral medulla did not produce any significant cardiovascular effect in the renal hypertensive group , it resulted in a modest pressor effect in the nt rats . these results indicate that acute activation of aii receptors in the ap or nts does not contribute to the pressor effect of aii in renal hypertensive rats . 
beneficial effects of long-term treatment with sk&f 105685 in murine lupus nephritis . mrl/mp-lpr/lpr ( mrl/lpr ) mice were studied from 6 to 19 weeks of age . proteinuria began to increase at 15 weeks , and continued to increase until the animals were sacrificed at 19 weeks . this proteinuria was associated with lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly , as well as changes in lymph node cell phenotype and histologic changes in the glomeruli . oral administration of sk&f 105685 starting at 12 weeks of age prevented the increased urinary protein loss , inhibited the histologic changes in the glomeruli , reduced the increase in spleen and lymph node weight and modified the phenotypic profile of the lymphoid cells . sk&f 105685 appears to act by increasing the number/activity of nonspecific suppressor cells in mrl/lpr mice . on the basis of this evidence , we conclude that sk&f 105685 can attenuate the progression of renal damage in mrl/lpr mice by exerting a unique effect on cells which may be involved in the autoimmune process . 
problems in the clinical diagnosis of stress incontinence . a significant number of women suffer from urinary incontinence , which often requires surgical intervention . prior to proceeding with surgery , it is essential that all women undergo a thorough preoperative assessment to detect nonsurgical causes of their urinary leakage . this paper reviews the reliability of the initial history and basic clinical tests in the evaluation of women with lower urinary tract abnormalities . 
nonsurgical treatment of detrusor overactivity in postmenopausal women . detrusor overactivity with subsequent urge incontinence becomes increasingly more prevalent as women age . because of that , most women treated for detrusor instability and hyperreflexia are postmenopausal and are not always good candidates for the same treatments given to their younger counterparts . nonsurgical treatments of detrusor overactivity are available to postmenopausal women . 
histology of the connection between the vagina and levator ani muscles . implications for urinary tract function . the proximal urethra is a mobile structure , and voluntary control of its position is an integral part of the initiation of urination and continence . this paper describes the histology of the vagina 's attachment to the medial portion of the levator ani muscles , which , because of the intimate attachment of the vagina and urethra , is responsible , in part , for control of the urethral position . a histologic examination of 1,500 serial microscopic slides from eight women , dissection of four bodies and study of whole pelvis cross-sections from two cadavers were performed . smooth muscle , collagen and elastin fibers of the vaginal wall and paraurethral tissues directly interdigitate with the muscle fibers of the most medial portion of the levator ani , in the region of the proximal urethra . this strong connection lies at a level just below the entry of the urethra into the bladder and extends downward to the level of the perineal membrane ( urogenital diaphragm ) in an area corresponding to the mobile portion of the urethra . the inseparable nature of the vagina and urethra in this region makes it possible for the connection of the levator ani to the vagina to control the proximal urethral position . these observations suggest a specific role of the medial levator ani muscle in controlling vesical neck position and open the question of the specific part played by this arrangement in voiding and continence relative to other factors known to influence lower urinary tract function . 
predictive value of urethroscopy as compared to urodynamics in the diagnosis of genuine stress incontinence . a retrospective chart review was undertaken of 204 patients who underwent dynamic urethroscopy . ninety-nine patients with a diagnosis of genuine stress incontinence were evaluated urodynamically and urethroscopically to determine the predictive accuracy of the sensitivity and specificity of each of these diagnostic modalities . the urodynamic cough profile was both highly reactive and specific for genuine stress incontinence , with sensitivity and specificity of 95 % and 100 % , respectively , whereas dynamic urethroscopy yielded sensitivity and specificity of 60.2 % and 79.1 % , respectively . dynamic urethroscopy is a relatively insensitive predictor of genuine stress incontinence , with many equivocal findings ( 11 % ) as well . the urodynamic cough urethral pressure profile is recommended for diagnosing this condition . 
urethral mobility and its relationship to stress incontinence in women . multiple physiologic factors , only one of which is urethral support , make up the female continence mechanism . abnormal urethral support leads to deficient transmission of abdominal pressure to the urethra , which results in genuine stress incontinence in some women . many techniques are available for measuring urethral mobility . the determination of urethral mobility is not useful in the diagnosis of urinary incontinence . however , it provides some information about which surgical procedure is most appropriate for the correction of genuine stress incontinence . 
urinary tract infection in women . current role of single-dose therapy . administration of a single dose of an antimicrobial agent is acceptable therapy for women with uncomplicated lower urinary tract infections . there is adequate information in the literature to support the clinical use of single-dose therapy , although there is still a need for further , well-designed , sufficiently large studies that compare single-dose therapy to abbreviated-course ( 3-day ) and traditional ( 7 - to 14-day ) therapy . 
genital prolapse with and without urinary incontinence . procidentia , vaginal vault prolapse and severe cystocele may be associated with potential urinary incontinence , which becomes overt only after surgical repair of the genital prolapse . the normal support of the pelvic organs is provided by the pelvic diaphragm ( levator ani and coccygeus muscles ) . the levator plate is a firm , muscular plate between the coccyx and anus formed by fusion of the levator ani muscles on each side . recent investigators have indicated that the main mechanism for weakening the pelvic muscles occurs as a result of childbearing , when stretch injury of the pudendal nerve causes denervation of the muscles . this injury is aggravated with the changes of aging and has effects on anogenital prolapse and stress incontinence . there may be iatrogenic causes of both prolapse and stress incontinence when an operation produces a change in the direction of tissue forces or removes a prior barrier to incontinence . the evaluation of patients must include the actual and potential aspects of genital prolapse and incontinence . testing for stress incontinence must be performed before and after reduction of the genital prolapse . surgical repair should be planned carefully to correct all the significant and potential defects in the urogenital tract . ideally a normal vaginal axis with adequate length will be restored , and urinary function will not be compromised . 
importance of a neurologic evaluation in women with lower urinary tract dysfunction . the normal coordinated functions of the bladder and urethra are controlled by a set of central and peripheral reflex mechanisms . disruptions of these neuronal reflexes may produce abnormalities in the storage and expulsion of urine . electrophysiologic testing can be employed to complement other urodynamic tests used in the evaluation of these patients and also to document that abnormalities previously thought to be anatomic in origin in reality may be secondary to neurologic dysfunction . 
a practical approach to the painful bladder syndrome . the painful bladder syndrome ( pbs ) is a progressive and painful disease of the bladder that may lead to fibrosis , contracture and reduction of bladder capacity . the usual symptoms are urinary urgency , frequency , nocturia , chronic pelvic pain and lower abdominal pain upon filling of the bladder . a retrospective analysis was performed on 21 women with pbs between march 1987 and march 1988 . the patients were treated weekly with a bladder pillar block , bladder distention and dimethyl sulfoxide instillation . symptomatic relief was observed in 80 % of the patients so treated . the maximum bladder volume increased from 185 to 475 ml ( p less than .01 ) . the side effects were minimal . 
pulmonary-renal syndrome with " triad " involvement due to small vessel vasculitis . we describe the clinical course and morphologic findings of a 22-year-old woman presenting with a systemic disease that included nasal ulceration , hemoptysis and rapidly progressive renal failure . biopsies of nasal septum and lung revealed small vessel leukocytoclastic angiitis while renal biopsy showed a diffuse crescentic glomerulonephritis . immunosuppressive therapy resulted in remission of clinical symptoms and resolution of glomerulonephritis as documented in a followup biopsy . although her clinical presentation with triad organ involvement strongly suggested wegener 's granulomatosis , this case illustrates that other varieties of vasculitis may mimic wegener 's granulomatosis . 
rise in prostatic cancer incidence associated with increased use of transurethral resection we examined the association between prostatic cancer incidence rates and the rates of transurethral prostatectomy to explore reasons for the nationally reported dramatic increases in incidence rates of prostatic cancer from 1973 through 1986 . there was a strong correlation between both incidence of all stages of prostatic cancer combined and of localized disease and the increasing use of transurethral resection , a common surgical procedure usually performed to relieve urinary obstruction due to benign enlargement of the prostate . our analyses suggest that increased detection of existing tumors via transurethral resection was the primary reason for the observed increase in incidence rates of prostatic cancer . however , analyses of mortality trends , particularly among nonwhites , and laboratory studies of the histologic nature of clinically asymptomatic tumors suggest that part of the increase may reflect changes in the real risk of prostatic cancer . 
unexplained excess risk of bladder cancer in men . in nearly all populations studied , the risk of bladder cancer is two to four times as great in men as in women . we estimated what the gender-specific incidence rates would be in the absence of exposure to known carcinogenic factors . the data used were obtained from interviews with 2,806 white individuals with bladder cancer and 5,258 white controls in the national bladder cancer study and from incidence data for 1978 from the national cancer institute surveillance , epidemiology , and end results program . the total age-adjusted incidence of bladder cancer was 27.5 cases per 100,000 person-years for men and 7.0 for women , yielding a ratio of 3.9 . even in the absence of exposure to cigarettes , occupational hazards , or urinary tract infection , the gender-related risk persisted ; the incidence of bladder cancer was 11.0 in men and 4.1 in women , yielding a ratio of 2.7 . possible explanations for the excessive risk in men include environmental and dietary exposures not yet identified and innate sexual characteristics such as anatomic differences , urination habits , or hormonal factors . 
extrarenal production of calcitriol . under normal circumstances extrarenal sources of calcitriol probably constitutes a microendocrine system involved in cell differentiation and local intercellular communication with no influence on systemic calcium homeostasis . under pathological conditions such as chronic renal failure , extrarenal sources have the potential to normalize serum calcitriol after adequate stimulation ( such as , 25 ( oh ) d administration ) . extrarenal 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 synthesis is controlled by physiological levels of calcitriol . however , in sarcoidosis and other granulomatous diseases , 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 production by macrophages is deregulated , causing severe alterations in systemic calcium homeostasis . 
parathyroidectomy in chronic renal failure : indications , surgical approach and the use of calcitriol . the appropriate use of phosphate binders , calcium supplements and especially calcitriol therapy has significantly decreased the incidence of overt secondary hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients . nevertheless some patients may still need parathyroidectomy , especially in the event of severe clinical signs and symptoms such as persistent hypercalcemia , pruritus , calcifilaxis , or extensive extra-skeletal calcification . since aluminum-induced bone disease may resemble hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients , whenever parathyroidectomy is contemplated the diagnosis of secondary hyperparathyroidism must be firmly established . thus , a bone biopsy is mandatory prior to parathyroidectomy . it is our experience that once the patient goes to surgery the most important factor in the surgical approach is the presence of a skilled surgeon who has extensive experience in parathyroid gland surgery . the data comparing subtotal parathyroidectomy with total parathyroidectomy and autotransplantation are similar . the most important shortcoming is the lack of long-term follow-up . recently , new data by several investigators has been advanced reintroducing total parathyroidectomy . long-term observations in patients who despite total parathyroidectomy still have normal pth levels are of special interest . in addition , long-term follow-up of these patients has shown that normal plasma calcium and phosphorus levels may be maintained without the use of vitamin d ; this occurred in the presence of active mineralization . however , our major objection to this procedure is the risk of aluminum-induced bone disease . at the present time we feel that the relative high incidence of recurrent hyperparathyroidism following subtotal parathyroidectomy is a reasonable trade off for the risk of aluminum bone disease which may develop in absence of pth . 
unsuspected syphilitic hepatitis in a patient with low-grade proteinuria and abnormal liver function a 25-year-old patient was found to have cholestatic liver enzyme abnormalities during assessment for asymptomatic low-grade proteinuria at the us naval hospital in portsmouth , virginia . these abnormalities persisted for a 6-month period , and an extensive workup , including viral serologic studies , rapid plasma reagin test , iron studies , ceruloplasmin , antimitochondrial , antinuclear , and anti-human immunodeficiency virus antibodies , endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography , and liver biopsy , was unrevealing until serologic tests for syphilis were repeated to evaluate a new onset of urethral discharge . the patient had none of the more characteristic signs of secondary syphilis . the liver enzyme abnormalities rapidly resolved after treatment with penicillin . syphilis remains the great impostor and still must be considered in the differential diagnosis of unexplained liver enzyme abnormalities , even in a patient with no symptoms or signs of early syphilis . 
contraceptive efficacy of testosterone-induced azoospermia in normal men . world health organization task force on methods for the regulation of male fertility a multicentre study ( ten centres ) in seven countries was done to assess the contraceptive efficacy of hormonally-induced azoospermia in 271 healthy fertile men . each subject received 200 mg testosterone enanthate weekly by intramuscular injection . 157 men ( cumulative rate at 6 months 65 % ) became azoospermic in three consecutive semen samples . these men entered a 12-month efficacy phase during which continuing testosterone injections were the only form of contraception . there was 1 pregnancy during 1486 months of the efficacy phase ( 0.8 conceptions [ 95 % confidence interval 0.02-4 .5 ] per 100 person-years ) . discontinuations from the study were mainly because azoospermia was not achieved within 6 months and because of dislike of the injection schedule . the mean time to become azoospermic was 120 days ( sd 40 ) ; reappearance of spermatozoa was detected in 11 men and in no case led to discontinuation from the study or to pregnancy . after the testosterone injections had been stopped , the estimated median time from azoospermia to recovery ( sperm concentration of at least 20 million/ml ) was 3.7 months ( 3.6-3 .9 ) and to the subject 's mean baseline sperm concentration was 6.7 months ( 6.2-8 .7 ) . hormonal regimens that induce azoospermia can provide highly effective , sustained , and reversible male contraception with minimum side-effects . 
the diagnosis and prognosis of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease . background . autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is usually caused by a mutant gene at the pkd1 locus on the short arm of chromosome 16 , but in about 4 percent of families with the disorder it is caused by unknown mutations elsewhere in the genome . the natural course of the disease in both genetic forms is not well characterized . methods . we studied 17 families with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease to compare presymptomatic diagnosis by ultrasonography with diagnosis by genetic-linkage studies and to relate clinical variation of the disease to whether the pkd1 mutation was implicated . results . in 10 families the disorder was found to cosegregate with polymorphic dna markers flanking the pkd1 locus , in 2 families it did not , and in 5 families linkage could not be determined . in the 10 families with the pkd1 mutation , 46 percent of the members less than 30 years old who had a 50 percent risk of inheriting a mutation had renal cysts , as compared with 11 percent of the members of the two families without linkage ( p less than 0.001 ) . in the pkd1 families , all 67 diagnoses made by ultrasonography were confirmed by determination of the genotype as inferred from linkage . forty of 48 members ( 83 percent ) less than 30 years old who inherited the pkd1 mutation had renal cysts . all 27 members 30 years old or older who inherited the mutation had renal cysts , suggesting that the probability of a false negative diagnosis did not exceed 0.13 in this age group ( p less than 0.05 ) . the mean ( + / - se ) age at the onset of end-stage renal disease among members of the pkd1 families was 56.7 + / - 1.9 years , as compared with 69.4 + / - 1.7 years among members with cysts in the families without linkage ( p = 0.0025 ) . hypertension and renal impairment were less frequent and occurred later in the families without the pkd1 mutation . conclusions . at present , in most persons with a 50 percent risk of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease , imaging techniques are the only mode of reaching a diagnosis before symptoms appear . in such persons a negative ultrasonographic study during early adult life indicates that the likelihood of inheriting a pkd1 mutation is small . in the few who inherit a non-pkd1 mutation for polycystic kidney disease , renal failure is likely to occur relatively late in life . 
plasma prorenin activity and complications in children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus background . renin , secreted into the blood by the juxtaglomerular cells of the kidneys , is derived from a larger precursor , prorenin . plasma prorenin activity is increased in patients with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus who have microvascular complications of their disease . we undertook this study to determine prospectively whether rising prorenin activity can predict the development of complications in young patients with type i diabetes . methods and results . plasma prorenin was measured in 135 children and adolescents with type i diabetes . the mean ( + / - se ) plasma prorenin activity among the 32 patients over the age of 10 years who had had uncomplicated diabetes for 0.1 to 5 years was 8.43 + / - 0.58 ng of angiotensin i per liter.second , as compared with 7.06 + / - 0.32 in 37 control subjects of the same age ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the 9 patients older than 10 who had retinopathy or overt albuminuria , the mean plasma prorenin activity was 13.09 + / - 1.43 ng of angiotensin i per liter.second ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in 34 patients 10 years old or older with uncomplicated diabetes , 3 to 13 measurements of plasma prorenin activity were taken during a follow-up period of 6 to 39 months . urinary albumin was determined at each visit , and the patients had regular retinal examinations . only 1 of the 20 patients who had consistently normal plasma prorenin values had overt albuminuria ( ratio of urinary albumin to creatinine , greater than 0.017 ) or retinopathy , whereas one or both of these complications appeared in 8 of the 14 who had at least one high prorenin value . the plasma prorenin value was significantly higher in these eight patients at least 18 months before a complication was found . conclusions . increased plasma prorenin activity identifies a group of young patients with diabetes who are at high risk for retinopathy or nephropathy . 
the epidemiology and clinical aspects of the hemolytic uremic syndrome in minnesota background . the frequency of the hemolytic uremic syndrome , characterized by microangiopathic hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , and renal failure , is increasing . although escherichia coli serotype 0157 : h7 has been implicated as a causative agent , more information is needed about the basic epidemiology and clinical aspects of this syndrome . methods . we conducted a retrospective population-based study of hemolytic uremic syndrome in minnesota residents less than 18 years of age from 1979 through 1988 to assess trends in disease occurrence , describe the clinical illness , and identify predictors of disease severity and outcome . we also conducted a case-control study of patients with onsets of illness from 1986 through 1988 to examine risk factors . results . one hundred seventeen patients were identified . the mean annual incidence increased from 0.5 case per 100,000 child-years among children less than 18 in 1979 ( 6 cases ) to 2.0 cases per 100,000 in 1988 ( 26 cases ) ( p = 0.000004 ) . e. coli 0157 : h7 was isolated from 13 of 28 patients ( 46 percent ) who had stool specimens submitted for testing . for those who presented with typical hemolytic uremic syndrome , an elevated polymorphonuclear-leukocyte count on hospital admission , a shorter duration of prodrome , and the presence of bloody diarrhea were predictive of severe disease . in the case-control study , the patients were more likely to attend large daycare centers ( more than 50 children ) than were the controls ( odds ratio , 10.2 ; p = 0.03 ) , suggesting that day-care attendance may be a risk factor . on the basis of the population-attributable risk , however , this factor could account for no more than 16 percent of the cases . conclusions . this study provides evidence for an increase in the incidence of hemolytic uremic syndrome , which is probably related to an increased incidence of e. coli 0157 : h7 infections . hemolytic uremic syndrome has become an important pediatric and public health problem . 
postoperative urinary tract infection in gynecology : implications for an antibiotic prophylaxis policy . a prospective observational study of postoperative infection after gynecologic surgery assessed the need for antibiotic prophylaxis with special reference to the urinary tract . catheterization requirements in the postoperative period were compared with the development of urinary tract infection after excluding both preoperative and postoperative bacteriuria . forty-six of 115 patients ( 40 % ) developed a urinary tract infection in the postoperative period . furthermore , this was not clearly related to the need for postoperative catheterization . significant wound and vaginal vault infections were uncommon , indicating that antibiotic prophylaxis should be directed specifically at the urinary tract . 
combined vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a vaginal foreign body . a case is presented of vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a neglected vaginal foreign body . the patient complained of a foul-smelling vaginal discharge and was found to have a 4-cm hard vaginal mass on examination . urinary incontinence developed subsequently . examination under anesthesia was performed , and an aerosol deodorant cap was operatively removed from her posterior vagina/perirectal space . subsequent work-up demonstrated the presence of both a vesicovaginal fistula and a right ureterovaginal fistula . the patient underwent a combined vaginal repair of the vesicovaginal fistula and abdominal ureteroneocystostomy . the frequency , types , etiology , and treatment of genitourinary fistulas are reviewed with particular attention to those associated with a vaginal foreign body . 
fetal posterior urethral valve syndrome : a prospective application of antenatal prognostic criteria . a case of posterior urethral valve syndrome is presented . four weeks after a normal 24-week ultrasound examination , diminished amniotic fluid , megacystis , and renal hyperechogenicity were observed . a repeat ultrasound examination at 30 weeks ' gestation identified oligohydramnios and increased renal echogenicity . these findings prompted the performance of a percutaneous cystocentesis to assess fetal renal function indirectly . the specimen was evaluated for osmolality and sodium and chloride concentrations . the urine electrolyte concentrations ( sodium 115 meq/l ; chloride 93 meq/l ) and the osmolality ( 230 mosm/l ) were elevated , suggesting impaired renal function and a poor prognosis . despite these findings , aggressive management was used , including administration of antenatal corticosteroids and elective preterm delivery . a percutaneous cystocentesis was required during the infant 's initial resuscitation , followed by a difficult urethral catheterization . ultimately , a vesicostomy performed on day 4 of life was associated with prompt return of renal function ( serum creatinine 0.7 mg/dl at the time of discharge ) . at 6 months of age , normal renal function has been documented and the vesicostomy has been closed . this case demonstrates the potential limitations of available prognostic criteria in evaluating fetal urinary obstruction and residual renal function . in selected cases ( when the onset of obstruction is documented in the third trimester ) , refinement of these prognostic criteria may be indicated . similar cases may be best managed by preterm delivery and prompt postnatal decompression . 
congenital nephrosis as a cause of elevated alpha-fetoprotein . two cases of congenital nephrosis were detected through routine maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( msafp ) screening of 95,135 patients . no other cases of congenital nephrosis from this group were reported , resulting in an incidence of approximately one in 47,500 in this low-risk population . in both of these cases , similar to other reported cases of congenital nephrosis having msafp screening , the protein concentrations were greater than or equal to 10 multiples of the median ( mom ) . therefore , in the case of an msafp over 10 mom and a normal ultrasound examination , congenital nephrosis should be included in counseling regarding the possibility of undetected malformations . furthermore , in the case of a pregnancy with elevated amniotic fluid afp with negative acetylcholinesterase and normal ultrasound , the possibility of congenital nephrosis should be mentioned , regardless of family history or ancestry . when a pregnancy is terminated because of these biochemical findings , special and immediate attention to the fetal kidneys using electron microscopy is necessary to evaluate properly the possibility of congenital nephrosis . 
successful renal transplantation accelerates development in young uremic children . to examine the impact of renal transplantation on subsequent development of children with chronic renal failure , 37 children undergoing primary renal transplantation at or before 30 months of age whose allograft functioned for at least 1 year were prospectively studied . psychometric tests were performed an average of 4 months before transplantation ; reevaluation was done an average of 14 months after surgery . comparison of individual pretransplantation and posttransplantation mental development scores in 33 patients , assessed by either bayley mental development index or stanford-binet intelligence quotient , revealed an average increase of 12.6 ( p less than .001 ) . after transplantation , there was a significant improvement in mental performance in 12 of 18 patients ( p less than .02 ) from the range of mild delay ( mental development index or stanford-binet iq score = 50 to 69 ) to the range of normal mental development ( greater than or equal to 70 ) . the bayley psychomotor development index scores were frequently lower than mental development index scores and also increased an average of 14.4 ( p less than .01 ) after transplantation in all 12 patients with paired data . significant individual improvement in occipital-frontal circumference standard deviation score ( p less than .001 ) was noted in 24 children after transplantation . it is concluded that successful renal transplantation in young children with chronic renal failure is often associated with significant improvements in cognitive and psychomotor function , as well as improved cephalic growth . 
hemolytic-uremic syndrome in children . a serious hazard of undercooked beef . hemolytic-uremic syndrome is the leading cause of acute renal failure in childhood . its incidence in north america is increasing . escherichia coli o157 : h7 is the most common infectious trigger and is spread by contaminated beef products as well as from person to person . antibiotics or antidiarrheal medications should not be used in the treatment of e coli hemorrhagic colitis or hemolytic-uremic syndrome . mortality in children with the syndrome has fallen to less than 10 % in north america , largely because of careful attention to nutrition , maintenance of a normal fluid and electrolyte balance , and careful monitoring . education and emotional support of the family are important aspects of the treatment program . 
promoter deletion and loss of retinoblastoma gene expression in human prostate carcinoma . mutational inactivation of the retinoblastoma gene ( rb ) is found in all retinoblastomas and in a subset of other human neoplasms , including sarcomas of bone or soft tissue and carcinomas of lung or breast . exogenous copies of wild-type rb have been shown to suppress the tumorigenicity of several types of tumor cells with endogenous rb mutations , including a previously described human prostatic carcinoma cell line . to further support a role for rb inactivation in the genesis of prostate cancer , seven primary or metastatic prostate carcinoma specimens were examined for evidence of rb mutation . by the use of immunoblot analysis and immunostaining of histologic sections , rb-encoded protein was readily detected in tumor cells of five specimens , was equivocally detected in one specimen , and was apparently absent from tumor cells of one specimen . rb mutations in the latter case were precisely characterized as ( i ) a deletion of 103 nucleotides containing transcriptional start sites and ( ii ) loss of the second rb allele . the 103-base-pair deletion was sufficient to abolish the promoter activity of upstream dna sequences in a heterologous expression system . these results ( i ) demonstrate that rb can be inactivated in vivo by mutation of its promoter , ( ii ) confirm the existence of rb mutations in some human prostate carcinomas , and ( iii ) suggest the use of immunohistochemical methods to screen for rb mutations in clinical samples of common adult neoplasms . 
clinicopathological features of childhood nephrotic syndrome in northern nigeria the clinicopathological features of childhood nephrotic syndrome in northern nigeria were studied in 100 consecutive patients . the patients presented with gross anasarca and very low serum albumin , which was less than 15 g/l in 30 patients . the three most frequent histological diagnoses in 98 renal biopsies were membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis ( 25 ) , quartan malarial nephropathy ( 20 ) , and proliferative glomerulonephritis ( 19 ) : together they accounted for 65 per cent of all biopsies . only nine patients had minimal change nephropathy . antigens were detected by immunofluorescence in the glomeruli of 70 of 76 biopsies ( 92 per cent ) : plasmodium malariae was detected in 25 per cent and hepatitis b surface antigen in 24 per cent . the disease was characterized by progressive deterioration in renal function and a high mortality rate of 13 per cent . nine of the 13 deaths occurred within one year of diagnosis . 
prognostic factors in acute renal failure following aortic aneurysm surgery . this study analyses the prognostic factors associated with survival in 70 patients who developed acute renal failure following surgery for an aortic aneurysm . forty-nine patients ( 70 per cent ) had surgery for a ruptured aortic aneurysm and 21 patients ( 30 per cent ) had an elective procedure . fifty-nine patients received haemodialysis . thirty-three patients ( 47 per cent ) survived the episode of acute renal failure . six of these thirty-three patients died within three months of recovering from acute renal failure , giving an overall survival of 27/70 ( 39 per cent ) . a stepwise logistic regression analysis showed that the following factors significantly adversely affected survival : a need for inotropic support , ventilation for more than three days and age over 65 years . a model developed using these variables provided a basis for predicting outcome . 
priapism associated with the sickle cell hemoglobinopathies : prevalence , natural history and sequelae . to determine the prevalence and characteristics of priapism associated with sickle cell hemoglobinopathic conditions we interviewed and examined 52 men with sickle cell anemia , 10 with sickle c disease , 3 with sickle b ( + ) - thalassemia and 19 with sickle cell trait . of the men 20 with sickle cell anemia ( 38 % ) and 1 with sickle b ( + ) - thalassemia ( 33 % ) reported past priapism attacks . average patient age at onset in the sickle cell anemia patients was 19 years ( range 8 to 30 years ) . four men had had only 1 attack . the average number of attacks per year in the remaining patients ranged from 1 to 52 . of the patients who reported multiple attacks the average duration of a typical episode and the duration of the longest self-limiting episode was 1.6 and 7.0 hours , respectively . six patients had experienced 1 attack that persisted for longer than 24 hours . there were no significant differences between the clinical and hematological parameters of the sickle cell anemia patients who did and did not experience priapism or of the priapism patients who had and had not experienced episodes lasting greater than 24 hours . six patients had been hospitalized for priapism and 4 were treated with a shunting procedure . of the latter patients 2 were impotent but there was no significant alteration in the sexual function of the other study participants . 
prevalence of carcinoma in situ and other histopathological abnormalities in testes from 399 men who died suddenly and unexpectedly . to determine the prevalence of carcinoma in situ of the testis and other testicular histopathological abnormalities in the general male population , we examined gonads from 399 men 18 to 50 years old who died suddenly and unexpectedly . no sign of malignancy was found in any of these gonads . however , 3 of the 399 men had been previously treated for testicular tumor or carcinoma in situ . thus , the over-all prevalence of testicular neoplasia in the population studied was 0.8 % ( 95 % confidence limits 0.2 to 2.2 % ) . this frequency is of the same magnitude as the lifetime risk of testicular cancer in the danish male population . the median weights of the left and right testes were 19.3 and 19.7 gm. , respectively . this difference was statistically significant ( p = 0.00003 ) . thus , our study confirmed that on average the left testis is smaller than the right testis . the median weight of the gonads collected in our study was 0.9 gm . lower than the weight of testes examined 40 years earlier at the same department of forensic medicine . however , this difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.17 ) . microscopic examination of the gonadal specimens revealed that 83 % of the men exhibited complete spermatogenesis , including late spermatids in all tubules . in the age group studied we found no age-related changes in testicular weight or in the proportion of tubules with degenerative changes , such as spermatogenic arrest , the sertoli-cell-only syndrome or hyalinization . 
application of the monoclonal antibody ki-67 on prostate biopsies to assess the fraction of human prostatic carcinoma . the feasibility of using the monoclonal antibody ki-67 as a proliferation marker in human prostatic carcinoma was studied on aspiration and core biopsy specimens obtained from 50 patients suspected of having prostate cancer . in 32 prostatic adenocarcinomas the ki-67 index varied from 0.3 to 13.3 % ( mean 4.3 ) in cytological smears and from 0.8 to 17.8 % ( mean 5.1 ) in frozen sections from histological core biopsies . no significant correlation between the percentage of cells positive for ki-67 and the histological tumor differentiation could be established . in 18 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia the ki-67 index varied from 0 to 3.0 % ( mean 1.2 ) and from 0 to 3.8 % ( mean 1.4 ) in cytological and histological material , respectively . the differences in the observed ki-67 index between benign and malignant prostatic tissues are of statistical ( p less than 0.001 ) and of clinical significance . nine patients who underwent endocrine treatment or radiotherapy entered a followup protocol in which the ki-67 staining procedure was applied to periodically obtained cytological aspiration biopsies . during month 1 after the start of therapy a statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decrease in the ki-67 index to 58 % of the initial values was found , while at 2 and 3 months the proliferative fraction showed a further decrease to 27 and 7 % , respectively . as a marker , the monoclonal antibody ki-67 was shown to provide a reliable method to estimate the proliferative cell fraction of human prostate cancer . 
prostate cancer : comparison of digital rectal examination and transrectal ultrasound for screening . a prostate cancer screening study of 315 asymptomatic men comparing digital rectal examination and transrectal ultrasound identified 23 cancers , for a detection rate of 7.3 % . of the cancers 17 ( 5.4 % ) were diagnosed by digital rectal examination . contrary to the experience of others , this was a higher rate than achieved by transrectal ultrasound ( 14 cases or 4.4 % ) . systematic multiple needle biopsies of both lobes with ultrasound guidance were routinely performed . as a result of this technique 7 of 23 cancers ( 30 % ) were fortuitously diagnosed . in addition , only unilateral disease was suspected in 4 of 7 patients with bilateral disease on biopsy . digital rectal examination and transrectal ultrasound identified the same number of patients with small ( less than 1.5 cm . ) cancers , contrary to other reports that found transrectal ultrasound to be superior . digital rectal examination is considered an effective screening examination , equivalent to transrectal ultrasound and preferable because of lower cost . an algorithm for screening is outlined with digital rectal examination and prostate specific antigen determinations . 
trace elements and urinary stone formation : new aspects of the pathological mechanism of urinary stone formation . the urinary stone , serum and 24-hour urine concentrations of 14 trace elements were determined in urinary stone patients by inductively coupled plasma atomic-emission spectroscopy . the data obtained for 25 active stone patients and 32 whose last stone episode had occurred at least 12 months previously were compared with those of 25 healthy individuals . urinary nickel , manganese and lithium excretion , and serum nickel , manganese and cadmium concentrations were statistically significantly lower for active stone patients compared to those with previous stone episodes and healthy individuals . no difference in the concentrations of trace elements could be found , however , for patients with previous stone episodes and healthy individuals . nickel , manganese , lithium and cadmium could be of significance in the pathological mechanism of stone formation , not from mineralogical or crystallographic viewpoints but for the smooth flow of enzymatic reactions in biological systems . 
prophylaxis of uric acid stones with alternate day doses of alkaline potassium salts . uric acid stone formation ordinarily is prevented by increases in the urinary ph after meals . this postprandial alkaline tide is lost in patients who make such calculi . single dose , alternate day administration of an alkaline potassium salt will increase urinary ph and simulate this normal physiological mechanism . an important part of the regimen is patient self-monitoring to verify that the urinary ph increases to greater than 6.8 , 1 1/2 to 2 hours after the medication is taken . in contrast to multiple dose daily regimens , this mode of base administration is tolerated better and easier to follow . in 17 patients , 7 with the recurrent gravel/colic syndrome and 10 with prior stones , this regimen abolished calculus formation during an average followup of 2 1/2 years . however , further studies are needed before this regimen can be recommended as standard therapy for uric acid stone prophylaxis . 
effect of restricting dietary protein on the progression of renal failure in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus background . restriction of dietary protein may slow the progression of renal failure in diverse renal diseases , but the extent to which such a diet is beneficial in patients with diabetic nephropathy is uncertain . methods . we studied the effect of reduced intake of protein and phosphorus on the progression of renal disease in 35 patients with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus and clinically evident nephropathy . the low-protein , low-phosphorus diet contained 0.6 g of protein per kilogram of ideal body weight per day , 500 to 1000 mg of phosphorus , and 2000 mg of sodium . the control diet consisted of the patient 's prestudy diet with the stipulation that it contain 2000 mg of sodium and at least 1 g of protein per kilogram per day and 1000 mg of phosphorus . renal function was assessed by measurement of iothalamate and creatinine clearances at intervals of 3 to 6 months , and the patients were followed for a minimum of 12 months ( mean , 34.7 ) . the declines in mean glomerular filtration rates were compared between groups by linear-regression analysis of the glomerular filtration rate as a function of time . results . the patients who followed the study diet for a mean of 37.1 months had declines in iothalamate clearance of 0.0043 ml per second per month and in creatinine clearance of 0.0055 ml per second per month . the comparable values in the control group were 0.0168 and 0.0135 , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . blood pressure was well controlled , and the degree of glycemic control was comparable in both groups . conclusion . dietary restriction of protein and phosphorus can retard the progression of renal failure in patients with type i diabetes mellitus who have nephropathy . we believe that wider use of this treatment is indicated . 
an epidemiologic study of abuse of analgesic drugs . effects of phenacetin and salicylate on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity ( 1968 to 1987 ) background . phenacetin abuse is known to produce kidney disease ; salicylate use is supposed to prevent cardiovascular disease . we conducted a prospective , longitudinal epidemiologic study to examine the effects of these drugs on cause-specific mortality and on cardiovascular morbidity . methods . in 1968 we evaluated a study group of 623 healthy women 30 to 49 years old who had evidence of a regular intake of phenacetin , as measured by urinary excretion of its metabolites , and a matched control group of 621 women . salicylate excretion was also measured . all subjects were examined over a period of 20 years . results . life-table analyses of mortality during the 20 years , with adjustment for the year of birth , cigarette smoking , and length of follow-up , revealed significant differences between the groups in overall mortality ( study group vs. control group , 74 vs. 27 deaths ; relative risk , 2.2 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.5 to 3.3 ) , deaths due to urologic or renal disease ( relative risk , 16.1 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 3.9 to 66.1 ) , deaths due to cancer ( relative risk , 1.9 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.1 to 3.3 ) , and deaths due to cardiovascular disease ( relative risk , 2.9 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.5 to 5.5 ) . the relative risk of cardiovascular disease ( fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction , heart failure , or stroke ) was 1.8 , and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.3 to 2.6 . the odds ratio for the incidence of hypertension was 1.6 , and the 95 percent confidence interval 1.2 to 2.1 . the effects of phenacetin on morbidity and mortality , with adjustment for base-line salicylate excretion , were similar . in contrast , salicylate use had no effect on either mortality or morbidity . conclusions . regular use of analgesic drugs containing phenacetin is associated with an increased risk of hypertension and mortality and morbidity due to cardiovascular disease , as well as an increased risk of mortality due to cancer and urologic or renal disease . the use of salicylates carries no such risk . 
structural genitourinary defects detected in utero . fetal genitourinary anomalies are detected with increasing frequency due to the large numbers of fetuses that undergo screening ultrasonography ( us ) for nonspecific indications . one hundred seventy-seven patients were evaluated for fetal urinary abnormalities over a 2-year period . fetal hydronephrosis accounted for 154 ( 87 % ) of the cases , with the remaining diagnoses including multicystic dysplastic kidney , autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease , and renal agenesis or hypodysplasia . ureteropelvic junction obstruction was the most common postnatal anatomic abnormality ( 29 % ) , with a large number of cases of prenatally diagnosed hydronephrosis resolving either prenatally ( 33 % ) or postnatally ( 24 % ) . prenatal us findings were retrospectively analyzed with regard to the degree of hydronephrosis at different stages of gestation . data showed that there is a gradual rise in anteroposterior renal pelvic diameter during gestation and that there is a correlation between this diameter and the ultimate renal outcome in regard to surgical repair . this information can provide guidance in making recommendations to parents and physicians . 
nonpalpable cancer of the prostate : assessment with transrectal us . palpable cancer of the prostate is widely believed to be clinically significant . the authors compared the clinical significance of palpable prostate cancer with nonpalpable prostate cancer discovered with transrectal ultrasound ( us ) . a strong association between lesion volume measured with preoperative transrectal us and volumetric measurements in 60 radical prostatectomy specimens permitted the use of tumor size measured with transrectal us as a reasonable estimation of gross tumor volume . in a subsequent clinical series , 147 biopsy-proved cancers were grouped according to size measured at us , the findings at digital rectal examination ( dre ) , and the gleason score . for the 147 patients with known prostate cancer , a statistically significant difference between gleason scores of palpable and nonpalpable cancers could not be demonstrated when the size of the tumor and its location within the prostate were held constant . assuming that the gleason score is a reliable indication of malignant potential and clinical significance , the authors conclude that nonpalpable prostatic cancer detected with transrectal us alone may be just as clinically significant as prostatic cancer discovered with dre . 
biologic aggressiveness of palpable and nonpalpable prostate cancer : assessment with endosonography . the biologic aggressiveness of palpable versus nonpalpable prostate cancer was evaluated in 666 patients studied with endosonography over a 24-month period . biologic aggressiveness was defined by a combined histologic and grade-stage category score . in 314 patients suspected of having prostate cancer 328 biopsies were performed . carcinoma was detected in 99 patients , by means of both palpation and endosonography ( n = 80 ) , endosonography alone ( n = 9 ) , and palpation alone ( n = 8 ) ; two cancers were not detected with either palpation or endosonography . all patients with normal results of digital examination had a combined grade-stage category score lower than 9 . fifty-five of 69 patients ( 80 % ) with abnormal results of digital examination and available histologic data had a histologic score of 6 or higher ; 38 of these patients ( 69 % ) had a combined grade-stage category score of 9 or higher . although the number of patients is small , these data suggest that nonpalpable cancers are biologically less aggressive than palpable ones and that the advantage of endosonography over palpation in detection of clinically significant cancers is limited . 
congenital cystic disease of the seminal vesicle . thirteen cases of congenital seminal vesicle cysts with pathologic correlation were diagnosed between 1970 and 1988 . twelve of the 13 patients had ipsilateral renal anomalies . intravenous urography , performed in 11 of the 13 patients , demonstrated associated renal anomalies . computed tomography , performed in nine of the 13 patients , demonstrated associated renal anomalies and displayed the cystic seminal vesicles . transabdominal or endorectal ultrasonography , performed in eight patients , allowed characterization of the seminal vesicle masses as cystic . magnetic resonance imaging , performed in three of the 13 patients , accurately demonstrated dilated ejaculatory ducts into which ectopic ureters inserted . the fluid in the seminal vesicle cysts had an increased signal intensity on t1 - and t2-weighted sequences . seminal vesiculographic study demonstrated anomalous communications with the seminal tract . cystic disease of the seminal vesicles can be either congenital or acquired ; congenital cysts are associated with anomalies of the ipsilateral mesonephric duct . 
detection of vascular complications in renal allografts with color doppler flow imaging . one hundred ninety-five color doppler flow ( cdf ) examinations were performed in 146 renal allografts to assess the capabilities of this technique in detecting intra - or extrarenal vascular complications . conventional angiography was also performed in 44 transplants . in the group of transplants with angiographic correlation , cdf sonography enabled correct identification of 30 of 34 vascular complications . cdf showed 10 of 11 significant stenoses of the renal artery or of one of its main branches . there were two false-positive renal artery stenoses ( one normal artery and one 40 % stenosis ) . nine of nine renal artery thromboses and the single pseudoaneurysm were also identified . within the parenchyma , cdf sonography demonstrated five of five segmental infarcts , two of two postbiopsy arteriovenous fistulas , and three of six segmental or interlobar artery stenoses . measurement of peak systolic velocity showed a significant difference ( p less than .05 ) between a group ( n = 8 ) with significant stenosis of the renal artery or one of its main branches ( mean , 215.2 cm/sec + / - 32 ) and a group ( n = 14 ) without stenosis ( mean , 99.2 cm/sec + / - 19 ) . 
hemodialysis-related amyloidomas of bone . lytic bone lesions secondary to amyloid deposition are a recently described complication of long-term hemodialysis . the authors refer to these tumorlike deposits as amyloidomas in a review of the subject and four proved cases . this entity typically appears as multiple well-defined , juxta-articular lytic lesions without matrix calcification . the duration of hemodialysis is probably the greatest risk factor for development of these intraosseous amyloidomas . ultrastructurally , this new type of amyloid originates from beta 2-microglobulin , a low-molecular-weight serum protein that is not filtered by standard dialysis membranes . 
involvement of thromboxane and neutrophils in multiple-system organ edema with interleukin-2 . interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) produces toxicity characterized by generalized edema within 24 hours . this study tests whether the rate of il-2 administration modulates the onset of edema and examines thromboxane ( tx ) and neutrophils as possible mediators of this event . recombinant human il-2 , 10 ( 5 ) u ( n = 7 ) , 10 ( 6 ) u ( n = 9 ) , or vehicle ( n = 8 ) were given to anesthetized rats intravenously during a period of 1 hour . at 6 hours edema , as measured by increase in wet to dry weight ( w/d ) ratio , was present in the heart , liver , and kidney , with 10 ( 5 ) u il-2 and in the lung , heart , liver and kidney , with 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , relative to values with vehicle-infused controls ( all p less than 0.05 ) . with a 1-hour infusion of 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , there was an increase in plasma thromboxane ( tx ) b2 level to 1290 + / - 245 pg/ml , higher than 481 + / - 93 pg/ml in control rats ( p less than 0.05 ) ; lung polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) sequestration of 53 + / - 7 pmn/10 higher-power fields ( hpf ) relative to 23 + / - 2 pmn/10 hpf in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) ; and increased bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluid protein concentration of 1970 + / - 210 micrograms/ml relative to 460 micrograms/ml in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . when 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 was given as a 1-minute intravenous bolus ( n = 9 ) , edema was not demonstrated , plasma txb2 levels were similar to controls , there was no leukosequestration , and bal protein levels were normal . these data indicate that a constant infusion but not the rapid bolus administration of il-2 produces in rats multiple-system organ edema , increased plasma txb2 , sequestration of pmns , and microvascular permeability . these findings may explain the early toxicity seen in patients given high-dose il-2 in cancer treatment . 
immunologic evidence for the in situ deposition of a cytoplasmic streptococcal antigen ( endostreptosin ) on the glomerular basement membrane in rats . endostreptosin ( ess ) is an antigen derived from the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of nephritogenic group a and to a lesser extent group c and g streptococci . it is immunologically not related to streptococcal exoenzymes or the streptococcal cell wall and can be detected on the endothelial side of the glomerular basement membrane of kidney biopsies of patients with acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( asgn ) during the early phase of the disease . highest and most persistent antibody titers to this antigen are found in patients with asgn . immunoaffinity isolated ess was injected i.v. into the tail vein of wistar furth ( w/fu ) rats for up to five successive days . the animals were sacrificed on days 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 . frozen sections of the rat kidneys were tested by immunofluorescence against rabbit anti-ess-antibody and against sera from patients who had recently recovered from asgn as well as against anti-rat-igg and c3 . the basement membranes of rat kidneys were positive for ess deposition starting from day one on , but were negative for anti-rat igg and c3 during the first four days . rats sacrificed on days 8-12 showed increasing deposition of igg and c3 with decreased staining for ess . the sera of rats sacrificed on days 1-3 had no detectable anti-ess antibodies ; whereas animals from day 4 on had low levels of anti-ess antibodies as determined by microcomplement fixation . control animals showed no staining for ess , igg , c3 as well as no detectable anti-ess antibodies . 
decrease in mean platelet survival time in acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( apsgn ) . in an attempt to study further the possible participation of platelets in the pathogenesis of acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( apsgn ) , we studied the platelet survival time , as an index of platelet activation , in 22 patients with apsgn . mean platelet survival time was computed from the disappearance of radioactivity from blood , sampled serially after injection of autologous 51cr-labelled platelets . c1q solid phase elisa and conglutinin ( k ) solid phase elisa were used to measure the serum levels of immune complexes . the platelet survival time in apsgn patients was 113 + / - 10 h vs 197 + / - 10 h in the control group ( p less than 0.001 ) ; 68 % of the patients had a shortened platelet survival , lower than 95 % confidence limit . there was a significant increase in the platelet survival in the six patients that were studied after recovery from acute nephritic syndrome . there was no significant association between the mean platelet times survival and cics ( circulating immune complexes ) . similarly , no significant correlation was found between the mean platelet lifespan and the severity of the glomerular disease , as assessed by the serum creatinine level and the proteinuria . these results support evidence of platelet activation and consumption in apsgn and we suggest that this activation occurs in the glomeruli capillary wall , due to platelet-vascular wall interaction . 
postpartum renal failure in systemic lupus erythematosus . the present report describes an unusual association between postpartum renal failure and systemic lupus erythematosus . two healty young women developed progressive renal failure several weeks after delivery accompanied by the presence in their serum of strongly reactive anti-nuclear antibodies and positive anti-dna antibodies . in both cases kidney biopsy disclosed light and electron microscopy pictures typical of idiopathic postpartum renal failure , with multiple intravascular thrombi and no evidence of active lupus nephritis . intrarenal microthrombi formation may represent a form of exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus after delivery . the early recognition of this syndrome may have therapeutic implications . 
hemolytic uremic syndrome in patients with behcet 's disease treated with cyclosporin a : report of 2 cases . hemolytic uremic syndrome ( hus ) has been reported in patients treated with cyclosporin a ( csa ) following bone , hepatic and kidney transplantation . we report two patients with behcet 's disease ( bd ) under csa treatment because of severe uveitis , who developed hus several months after the initiation of treatment . renal biopsies showed lesions consistent with the diagnosis of the arterial form of thrombotic microangiopathy : vascular thrombosis with extensive glomerular ischemia . renal failure persisted after withdrawal of csa : one patient is in chronic renal failure ( crf ) with a 4-year follow-up ; the other died after refusal of chronic hemodialysis . in our two patients , excessive doses of csa with high trough levels are likely to have contributed to the development of hus . a rapid adjustment of csa doses and an early detection of signs of the microangiopathic process might have prevented this severe complication of csa treatment . 
knowledge of hemodialysis and capd patients about their prescribed medicines . a questionnaire was designed to determine and compare the extent of knowledge of 40 continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) and 40 hemodialysis ( hd ) patients about their medicines . it was administered orally to outpatients attending a clinic by an investigator unknown to the patients . data were collected pertaining to the following target drugs : calcium supplements , phosphate binders , vitamins b and c and folic acid . hd and capd groups were closely matched for age and sex . sixty percent of capd and 49 % of hd patients were taking four or more medications . the dose of folic acid was accurately recalled by 91 % and 71 % of capd and hd patients . indications for calcium supplements and phosphate binders were known by only 8 % and 30 % of capd patients compared to 72 % and 73 % of hd patients . more hd patients knew the indications for all target drugs ( p less than 0.01 ) . more capd than hd patients knew the expected duration of therapy ( p less than 0.01 ) . there was a trend between decreased knowledge of whether the medication was working with increasing age of capd patients . most drug information was supplied by physicians , but many capd patients ( 21 % ) obtained information from lay sources . when given the opportunity to ask questions about their medicines , only 56 % capd and 46 % hd patients did so . the knowledge of capd and hd patients studied was grossly deficient in terms of indications , effectiveness , duration and action to be taken if doses were missed . 
chemoprotective effects of recombinant human il-1 alpha in cyclophosphamide-treated normal and tumor-bearing mice . protection from acute toxicity , hematologic effects , development of late mortality , and enhanced therapeutic efficacy . in this study , recombinant human il-1 alpha ( rhil-1 alpha ) was used to protect normal and tumor-bearing balb/c mice from the acute toxicity caused by lethal doses of cyclophosphamide ( cy ) and 5-fluorouracil . pretreatment of mice for 7 days with 10,000 u/day of rhil-1 alpha protected 70 to 100 % of mice from the acute death induced by lethal doses of both cy ( 380 mg/kg ) and 5-fluorouracil ( 250 mg/kg ) . in contrast , post-treatment of mice with single or multiple doses of rhil-1 alpha was not chemoprotective . pretreatment of mice with rhil-1 alpha increased the acute ld90 of cy from 380 mg/kg to greater than 500 mg/kg in normal mice , an ld90 dose-modifying effect of at least 1.25 , was accompanied by a more rapid recovery from neutropenia and a less severe reduction in the number of bone marrow single lineage monocyte , myeloid , or myelomonocytic colonies . some of the mice ( 10 to 50 % ) that were successfully protected by pretreatment with rhil-1 alpha died after day 50 . these mice consistently presented with extensive pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis at death . mice bearing murine renal cancer ( renca ) were also protected from the acute toxic effects of cy ( 450 mg/kg ) by pretreatment with rhil-1 alpha . renca-bearing mice pretreated with rhil-1 alpha and either sublethal ( 300 mg/kg ) or lethal ( 450 mg/kg ) doses of cy exhibited enhanced survival times over those of untreated renca-bearing mice . interestingly , the cause of death in renca-bearing mice that ultimately failed treatment with rhil-1 alpha plus 300 mg/kg cy was recurrent tumor , whereas most mice treated with rhil-1 alpha plus 450 mg/kg cy had no detectable tumor , although several died from late pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis . thus , the dose escalation of cy in rhil-1 alpha-pretreated mice results in greater antitumor effects of cy . however , the dose escalation of some cytotoxic agents allowed by the use of myelostimulatory agents can result in late fatal complications not detected in acute toxicity testing . 
pharmacokinetics of intravenous pentamidine in patients with normal renal function or receiving hemodialysis . the pharmacokinetics of intravenous pentamidine were studied in 10 patients with normal renal function ( group 1 ) , 9 volunteer subjects without pneumocystis carinii pneumonia who were receiving maintenance hemodialysis ( group 2 ) , and 5 patients with normal or mildly abnormal renal function ( group 3 ) after the last dose of therapy . the concentration-time data were best represented by a three-compartment model . the peak plasma concentration , plasma clearance , and elimination half-life ranged from 249 + / - 80 to 227 + / - 110 ng/ml , 268 + / - 70 to 329 + / - 58 l/h , and 29 + / - 25 to 118 + / - 119 h , respectively , in groups 1 and 2 . in group 1 , trough concentration increased progressively ( linear regression : y = 4.4 x ; r = .91 , p = .001 ) without achieving steady state , and the renal clearance-to-plasma clearance ratio was 2.1 % + / - 0.01 % . in group 3 , the elimination half-life after the last dose was 12.0 + / - 2.3 days . the elimination half-life of pentamidine was long and accumulation occurred with daily dosing even in patients with normal renal function . dose adjustment is not recommended for renal impairment as renal clearance accounts for a small fraction ( 2.1 % ) of plasma clearance . 
post-traumatic priapism treated with metaraminol bitartrate : case report . a 30-year-old male with post-traumatic priapism for 7 days was treated successfully by metaraminol bitartrate injection into the corpus cavernosum . this result suggests that an alpha-adrenagic agent injection into the corpus cavernosum should be considered in post-traumatic priapism at first . 
traumatic left renal artery stenosis managed with splenorenal bypass : case report . splenorenal arterial bypass is a well established technique for the treatment of left renal artery occlusive disease . the following is a case report of the use of splenorenal bypass in the management of concomitant traumatic left renal artery intimal dissection and splenic laceration . arteriographic and intraoperative findings are presented as well as a review of pertinent literature . 
angiotensin ii and the maintenance of gfr and renal blood flow during renal artery narrowing . the time course of the renal blood flow and gfr responses to narrowing of the renal artery in conscious dogs is reviewed . the initial response to this threat to renal perfusion is renal vasodilatation , but within minutes a secondary vasoconstriction mediated by angiotensin ii begins to develop . angiotensin ii-mediated contraction of mesangial cells is also demonstrable , but this does not apparently reduce the filtration surface area of the glomerular capillaries . the intrarenal effects of angiotensin ii restore gfr back to normal within one to two weeks , by which time circulating plasma angiotensin ii levels are no longer elevated . in contrast to its effects on gfr , angiotensin ii has minimal effects on renal blood flow after stenosis . this may be because , ( i ) blood flow is mainly determined by the hydraulic resistance of the stenosis ; ( ii ) renal vasoconstriction has relatively little effect on flow due to the particular hemodynamic properties of the stenoses , and ( iii ) a major site of action of angiotensin ii may be within the glomerulus . thus angiotensin ii has a homeostatic role in the maintenance of gfr during renal artery narrowing and one component of this role may involve mesangial contraction . 
the renin-angiotensin system and renal function in kidney transplantation . the use of converting enzyme inhibitors ( cei ) has permitted us to assess the role of the renin-angiotensin system in the control of arterial pressure and renal function in various conditions . in renal transplant recipients treated by azathioprine and steroids , the occurrence of cei-induced deterioration of renal function is highly suggestive of renal artery stenosis , whereas renal vasodilatation associated with unchanged glomerular filtration rate in response to cei is indicative of a significant role of native kidneys . in hypertensive recipients without renal artery stenosis , the absence of renal hemodynamic changes after cei may be predictive of subsequent chronic rejection . the information provided by cei is rather different in cyclosporine treated subjects . in this setting , no acute effect of cei on renal hemodynamics is detectable . whether the renal response to cei is similar in cyclosporine when compared to conventionally treated patients with renal artery stenosis remains to be demonstrated . 
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and progression of chronic renal failure . renal failure , once established by loss of a critical amount of functional renal mass , tends to be progressive . a large body of experimental evidence supports the hypothesis that glomerular capillary hypertension is important in the pathogenesis of progressive chronic renal failure of diverse types , including subtotal renal ablation and diabetic nephropathy . converting enzyme inhibitors are effective in slowing or arresting the progression of glomerular injury in these experimental models , in association with normalization of both systemic and intrarenal pressures . clinical studies of diabetic nephropathy and chronic renal failure of other etiologies support the concept that these same renal hemodynamic factors are important in human renal disease and that treatment with converting enzyme inhibitors may prove to be a useful therapeutic intervention . whether the converting enzyme inhibitors have specific advantages over other antihypertensive agents due to beneficial renal hemodynamic effects , as suggested by experimental studies , is a question that awaits further investigation . furthermore , the pathogenesis of hypertensive glomerular injury is complex and involves the participation of diverse biologic systems . we predict that a wide variety of therapeutic maneuvers , with disparate mechanisms of action , may be effective in arresting or preventing glomerular injury . 
molecular biology of the renal renin-angiotensin system . this paper describes an interrelated series of studies designed to examine molecular and cellular aspects of renin expression and release within the kidney . using immunocytochemical techniques , northern blot analysis , in situ hybridization , measurement of renin activity , and the reverse hemolytic plaque assay , it has been possible to demonstrate that the intrarenal distribution of renin , renin gene expressing cells and the number of renin secretory cells vary during diverse physiologic and pathologic conditions . overall , these studies demonstrate that the renal preglomerular vasculature has the plasticity and capacity to elicit a recruitment of renin containing and/or renin gene expressing cells . 
growth hormone for short stature not due to classic growth hormone deficiency . the advent of recombinant dna technology has resulted in potentially unlimited supplies of growth hormone . sufficient quantities are now available not only for the long-term , uninterrupted treatment of gh-deficient children but potentially for the treatment of non-gh-deficient patients with other short stature or growth attenuating disorders . short-term studies have demonstrated an improvement in the growth rates of subjects with isolated short stature , turner syndrome , and chronic renal failure ; and additional studies are under way to assess the efficacy of gh therapy of other short stature syndromes . however , the long-term efficacy and possible adverse effects of gh treatment in these situations is not known . until there has been more experience , gh deficiency should remain the primary indication for gh treatment . growth hormone should not be considered routine therapy for other conditions associated with or resulting in short stature . however , research should continue in these areas to define which children may benefit from gh treatment . 
urologic function after experimental cauda equina compression . cystometrograms versus cortical-evoked potentials . twenty female beagle dogs underwent an l6-7 laminectomy and six dogs each had 25 , 50 or 75 % constriction of the cauda equina and 2 control dogs had laminectomy only . cystometrograms were performed pre - and post-operatively and three months after constriction . cortical evoked potentials were monitored pre - and post-operatively and monthly for three months . after three months of constriction , the cauda equina of these dogs in each group was examined histologically and vascular circulation was examined by latex and india ink injection ( spalteholz technique ) . the control dogs had normal cmgs and ceps . twenty-five percent constriction caused no cmg changes and mild cep changes . fifty percent constriction caused no statistically significant cmg changes , major cep changes and venous congestion of the nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia . seventy-five percent constriction produced severe cmg changes with detrusor areflexia , increased bladder capacity and clinical incontinence . ceps also had marked deterioration . vascular analysis revealed severe arterial narrowing at the level of constriction and venous congestion of the nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia . blockage of axoplasmic flow and nerve root atrophy was seen in all dogs with 75 % constriction . cortical evoked potentials were the most sensitive predictor of neural compression . cmgs were not sensitive until severe compression was achieved . bladder dysfunction , i.e. , detrusor areflexia , appears to occur with blockage of axoplasmic flow and early sensory changes occur with neurovenous congestion . 
delayed anterior decompression in patients with spinal cord and cauda equina injuries of the thoracolumbar spine . forty-nine patients with complete and incomplete injuries of the spinal cord or cauda equina who had undergone anterior decompression at a minimum of 3 months after injury were examined . follow-up was from 12 months to 19 years . postoperative neurologic improvement occurred in 46.5 % of patients with incomplete injuries . if the surgery was performed less than 2 years after injury , neurologic improvement occurred in 68 % with an improvement in frankel grade of 32 % . bladder function improved in 27 % of patients and if operated on less than 2 years after injury improvement occurred in 43 % . conus medullaris decompression resulted in a 50 % improvement . there was an 83 % improvement in the pattern of pain after decompression . of 23 patients with preoperative spasticity , 10 improved but 6 were worse after surgery . 
cerebellar syndrome caused by isoniazid . treatment of tuberculosis in a hemodialysis patient with isoniazid , rifampin , and pyrazinamide resulted in the development of acute cerebellar dysfunction . this resolved rapidly following the discontinuation of isoniazid and pyrazinamide , reinstitution of isoniazid at a lower dose , and addition of pyridoxine . we discuss why we believe this syndrome was caused by isoniazid . patients with renal failure who undergo antituberculous therapy with isoniazid should receive supplemental pyridoxine to reduce the likelihood of isoniazid-related neurotoxicity . 
soft tissue calcification in renal failure . disorders of phosphorus , calcium , and vitamin d are common in patients with renal failure . medical management , including dietary phosphorus restriction , administration of phosphate binding agents , and calcium and vitamin d sterol supplementation , must be instituted to control serum concentrations of these substances because of the loss of normal homeostatic mechanisms . if these measures are not employed , soft tissue calcification and hyperparathyroidism may result . we report the case of a 22-year-old woman with endstage renal disease treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis who developed secondary hyperparathyroidism and tumorous calcinosis as a result of noncompliance with dietary phosphorus restriction and phosphate-binding agent therapy . the etiology and treatment of soft tissue calcification in patients with renal disease are discussed . compliance with dietary restrictions and phosphate binding agents is frequently problematic in this population . pharmacists should play an active role in educating patients with renal disease on the consequences of noncompliance with dietary and drug therapy . 
irreversible tubulointerstitial damage associated with chronic aminonucleoside nephrosis . amelioration by angiotensin i converting enzyme inhibition . chronic aminonucleoside nephrosis is variably associated with tubulointerstitial damage , depending on the route and frequency of drug administration . recently , different groups have shown this injurious tubulointerstitial process to be reversible , coinciding with the resolution of heavy proteinuria to normal values . the authors have previously shown that a single jugular intravenous administration of puromycin aminonucleoside ( pa ) to male munich-wistar rats produces a triphasic pattern of glomerular injury and proteinuria , which culminates in focal glomerulosclerosis 70 weeks after drug administration . the authors now report the later progression of the tubulointerstitial morphologic abnormalities associated with acute nephrosis ( phase i ) , despite spontaneous resolution of glomerular injury during the intermediate period ( phase ii ) in this model . although treatment of rats with the angiotensin i converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril ( 50 mg/l drinking water ) over the 70-week period did not affect the magnitude of proteinuria during the acute nephrotic phase , enalapril prevented the recurrence of proteinuria ( phase iii ) , as well as significantly reducing the severity of interstitial fibrosis , extent of tubular dilatation , and number of intratubular casts on semiquantitative scoring at the conclusion of the study . in addition , enalapril-treated rats had less low-molecular-weight protein excretion during the recurrent phase of proteinuria , suggesting a preservation of tubular functional capacity to reabsorb these proteins . in vitro cytotoxicity studies showed only the glomerular visceral epithelial cell to be sensitive to pa , in contrast with rat tubular epithelium and other cellular controls . although the exact pathogenetic mechanism responsible for the development of the tubulointerstitial damage remains unknown , pa in vitro does not adversely affect rat tubular epithelium ; there is however a clear correlation between the magnitude of recurrent proteinuria and the severity of tubulointerstitial morphologic abnormalities , as suggested by the beneficial effect of converting enzyme inhibition on both of these untoward processes . 
distribution of endogenous albumin in the glomerular wall of proteinuric patients . glomerular proteinuria seems to be related , in part , to loss or impairment of the normal barrier function of the glomerular capillary wall . to investigate the functional properties of this barrier , endogenous albumin was revealed in the glomerular wall of proteinuric patients and compared with a nonproteinuric control by immunoelectron microscopy using the protein a-gold method . in the control biopsy , peaks of albumin accumulation were noted in the subendothelial area and in the inner portion of the lamina densa , with gradual tapering of the distribution toward the epithelial side of the basement membrane . the urinary space and epithelial cells were weakly labeled . in tissues from proteinuric patients , albumin was distributed throughout the entire width of the glomerular basement membrane , although the pattern of accumulation varied between patients . the urinary space showed significant labeling associated with some flocculent material . mesangial areas were heavily labeled in tissues from both control and proteinuric patients . in the latter , lysozomes in glomerular and tubular epithelial cells also accumulated albumin , which is evidence of reabsorption . these results reveal the existence , in normal conditions , of a barrier located in the subendothelial area of the glomerular basement membrane , the loss of which , as in the idiopathic nephrotic syndrome , leads to diffuse distribution of albumin in the glomerular capillary wall . 
systemic lupus erythematosus after renal transplantation : patient and graft survival and disease activity . the dutch working party on systemic lupus erythematosus objective : to determine the outcome of renal transplantation in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and end-stage renal failure and to compare disease activity after transplantation with disease activity before transplantation . design : retrospective case finding using data for an 8-year period from the central registry for renal replacement therapy in the netherlands . setting : tertiary care hospitals with facilities for renal transplantation in the netherlands . patients : twenty-eight patients who fulfilled at least four of the american rheumatology association 's criteria for the classification of systemic lupus erythematosus and who received a renal transplant . measurements : actuarial survival rates for grafts and patients after transplantation , maximal nonrenal scores on the systemic lupus erythematosus disease activity index , and time-adjusted disease exacerbation rates in all patients before and after transplantation . results : the actuarial graft survival rate at 1 year and 5 years was 68 % ( 95 % ci , 47 % to 82 % ) and 54 % ( ci , 25 % to 77 % ) , respectively , whereas the actuarial patient survival rate was 87 % ( ci , 69 % to 96 % ) at 1 and 5 years . high disease activity was not found to affect graft survival adversely before the start of renal replacement therapy or during dialysis . after transplantation , disease activity per patient and the overall incidence of disease exacerbations decreased . one case of recurrent lupus nephritis was seen . conclusions : patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and end-stage renal failure are excellent candidates for renal transplantation ; disease activity after transplantation is sporadic and low , and the recurrence of lupus nephritis is rare . 
guanidino compounds that are increased in cerebrospinal fluid and brain of uremic patients inhibit gaba and glycine responses on mouse neurons in cell culture . four guanidino compounds that have been found to be markedly increased in cerebrospinal fluid and brain tissue of uremic patients , namely , guanidine , methylguanidine , creatinine , and guanidinosuccinic acid , were applied to mouse spinal cord neurons in primary dissociated cell culture to evaluate their effects on postsynaptic responses to gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) and glycine . intracellular microelectrode recording techniques were used . guanidine , methylguanidine , creatine , and guanidinosuccinic acid reversibly and in a dose-dependent manner inhibited both gaba and glycine responses . guanidinosuccinic acid was the most potent inhibitor of the amino acid responses , followed in decreasing potency by methylguanidine , guanidine , and creatinine . guanidinosuccinic acid inhibited responses to gaba and glycine , at concentrations similar to those found in cerebrospinal fluid and brain tissue of patients with terminal renal insufficiency . the other guanidino compounds tested exerted their effects only at concentrations higher than those found in uremic biological fluids and tissues . the inhibitory effect of guanidine and methylguanidine on responses to gaba was additive . the effect of the guanidino compounds on gaba responses was not antagonized by coapplication of the benzodiazepine-receptor antagonist cgs 9896 . the results suggest that guanidine , methylguanidine , creatinine , and guanidinosuccinic acid inhibited responses to the inhibitory neurotransmitters gaba and glycine by blocking the chloride channel . the observed action of the studied guanidino compounds might contribute to the pathogenesis of the complex neurological symptomatology encountered in uremia . 
renal protective effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors . renal dysfunction and hypertension are closely associated . hypertension causes approximately 25 % of end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) and develops in virtually every patient with advanced renal insufficiency from any cause . although normalization of blood pressure can reduce mortality from uremia and ameliorate the progression of renal impairment in patients with established renal insufficiency from hypertension and diabetes , antihypertensive therapy alone is not totally effective in preventing progressive compromise of renal function -- especially in blacks and diabetics , who are at high risk for developing esrd . of particular promise is the rapidly increasing understanding of the intrarenal autocrine and paracrine functions of angiotensin ii produced locally by a tissue renin-angiotensin system . consistent and convincing experimental data have demonstrated that angiotensin ii plays many roles in the control of renal function and the kidney 's response to injury . the intrarenal effects of angiotensin ii include : 1 ) increase in the efferent arteriolar tone , resulting in increased glomerular capillary pressure , 2 ) promotion of mesangial cell contraction , 3 ) stimulation of proximal tubular na + reabsorption , and 4 ) possible growth hormone effects leading to hypertrophy or hyperplasia of vascular smooth muscle . because of their favorable intrarenal hemodynamic effects ( particularly reduction of glomerular capillary pressure ) , ace inhibitors may provide a renal protective effect in addition to their systemic antihypertensive effects . clinical trials evaluating the effect of ace inhibition on the progression of renal insufficiency in hypertensives and diabetics are currently under way . favorable results could lead to a significant decrease in the morbidity and mortality associated with hypertension . 
immunohistochemical study of vascular lesions in severe hypertension induced by doca and salt administration to spontaneously hypertensive rats . in order to evaluate whether immunoglobulin deposition in vessels plays some role in the development of vascular lesions in severe hypertension , an immunohistochemical study was performed in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrs ) , to which deoxycorticosterone acetate ( doca ) and salt were administered . doca and salt rapidly induced severe hypertensive vascular lesions , including necrotizing arteriolitis and productive endarteritis . in these rats , considerable deposits of igg and igm were found in the small arteries and arterioles of the kidneys . these deposits were accompanied by complement ( c3 ) , and could be eluted by acid incubation . they were localized in periodic acid-schiff-positive insudative lesions , which were thought to be an early phase of the hypertensive vascular lesions . these results suggest that the immunoglobulins might be bound to an unknown antigen in the vascular lesions and that some immunological mechanism mediated by the immunoglobulins is involved in the development of vascular lesions in severe hypertension . 
alterations in renal medullary hemodynamics and the pressure-natriuretic response in genetic hypertension . the concept that the kidney plays a major role in the long-term control of arterial pressure is based on the pressure-natriuretic response . according to this hypothesis , hypertension can only develop when the relationship between sodium excretion and arterial pressure is altered . transplantation studies have indicated that some form of renal dysfunction underlies the development of genetic forms of hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rat ( shr ) and in the dahl salt-sensitive ( s ) rat . nonetheless , the factors responsible for " resetting the kidney in hypertension " remain unknown . we have reported that the pressure-natriuretic relationships of shr and dahl s rats of the brookhaven and rapp strains are shifted toward higher pressures prior to the development of the disease . papillary blood flow is also reduced in very young " prehypertensive " shr . recent studies on the mechanism of pressure-diuresis indicate that it is mediated by inhibition of sodium reabsorption in the proximal tubule and/or thin descending limb of henle of deep nephrons . it is also associated with changes in renal interstitial pressure and the pressure and flow in the vasa recta circulation . these observations suggest that an elevation in renal medullary vascular resistance may be responsible for shifting the pressure-natriuresis relationship toward higher pressures in hypertension . 
incidence of advanced chronic renal failure and the need for end stage renal replacement treatment objective -- to determine the age related incidence of advanced chronic renal failure in two areas of england . design -- prospective study of patients newly identified as having advanced chronic renal failure within a two year period ; subsequent monitoring of patients ' clinical course for a further 26 months . setting -- devon and blackburn . subjects -- those patients in a population of 708,997 who developed advanced chronic renal failure ( serum creatinine concentration greater than 500 mumol/l ) for the first time during a two year period . main outcome measures and results -- 210 patients ( 148 per million population per year ) developed advanced chronic renal failure , 117 ( 51 % ) of whom were over 70 . the age related incidence rose from 58 per million per year in those aged 20-49 to 588 per million per year in those aged 80 or over . only 54 % ( 113 ) of patients were referred to a nephrologist ; 120 patients ( 57 % ) needed dialysis or died within three months of presenting without receiving dialysis , and 187 ( 89 % ) died or needed dialysis within three years . after those unsuitable for further treatment had been excluded , 78 patients per million population per year aged under 80 needed to start long term renal replacement treatment . conclusions -- many patients suitable for renal replacement treatment are still not referred for nephrological opinion and are denied treatment . if the treatment rate in the united kingdom rose from the 1988 rate of 55.1 per million per year to 78 per million per year then the number of patients receiving treatment would rise to about 800 per million . this is double the present number and has considerable but predictable resource implications for the nhs . 
prevalence of advanced renal failure in northern ireland objective -- to determine the prevalence of advanced chronic renal failure in northern ireland as part of an assessment by the renal association of the level of service provision for treatment of such patients . design -- prospective notification of patients reaching a defined level of advanced chronic renal failure ( serum creatinine concentration greater than or equal to 500 mumol/l or blood urea concentration greater than or equal to 25 mmol/l ) within one year and follow up for at least three , and , at most , four years after notification . setting -- northern ireland . patients -- 122 patients with a serum creatinine or blood urea concentration higher than the defined level newly detected from 1 march 1985 to 28 february 1986 . main outcome measure -- survival after notification . results -- 77 patients of all ages/million population/year had advanced chronic renal failure compared with 67/million/year between the ages of 5 and 80 found in an earlier study of the same population . 62 % of the patients were older than 50 years . seventeen ( 14 % ) of the patients either required dialysis or died within one month of notification , 51 ( 42 % ) survived for at least three months , and 23 ( 19 % ) for one year or longer . three patients , all of whom were attending a renal clinic , survived for periods of 43 , 45 , and 46 months respectively without renal replacement treatment . conclusions -- the increased number of new patients disclosed in this survey compared with the earlier survey is mainly owing to an increased number of older patients . such patients often have disabilities other than renal failure , are less likely to be capable of self treatment , may develop complications more often and require more frequent hospital admissions , and may not be suitable for transplantation and consequently have considerable resource implications for the nhs . 
diagnosis of abdominal masses with percutaneous biopsy guided by ultrasound objective -- to assess the accuracy and safety of percutaneous biopsy of abdominal masses guided by ultrasound . design -- prospective study . setting -- combined gastroenterology service , scarborough hospital . patients -- 108 consecutive patients identified as having a discrete mass on diagnostic ultrasound examination of the abdomen . intervention -- a sample of tissue was obtained with an aseptic technique under local anaesthesia : an 18 steel wire gauge needle ( tru-cut ) was mounted in a spring loaded firing device ( biopty gun ) that was advanced under simultaneous ultrasound scanning , permitting precise localisation of the target organ . main outcome measure -- results of histological examination of tissue specimens . results -- biopsy failed in four patients . adequate histological specimens were obtained in 104 patients with masses in the liver ( 31 ) , pancreas ( 37 ) , kidney ( 10 ) , and adrenal glands ( six ) and in 20 undiagnosed abdominal and retroperitoneal masses . follow up was until death or confirmation of the diagnosis . three complications but no deaths occurred . malignancy was suspected in 84 patients before biopsy . this was confirmed in 70 patients , in 26 of whom confirmation of dissemination obviated the need for further investigation . in 10 patients biopsy indicated a previously unsuspected primary tumour , and in 12 it showed only a benign lesion . among 24 patients considered to have benign disease biopsy showed an unsuspected neoplasm in seven . use of biopsy thus had a major effect on clinical management in 55 patients . four false negative but no false positive diagnoses resulted from the procedure . conclusion -- percutaneous biopsy of abdominal and retroperitoneal masses under ultrasound guidance is a safe and accurate method of obtaining a histological diagnosis . the results obtained have a considerable effect on clinical management . 
etoposide therapy for testicular cancer . during the past two decades , dramatic strides have been made in the treatment of metastatic testicular cancer . in the early 1970s , cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin ( pvb ) produced durable complete remissions ( cr ) in approximately 70 % of treated patients . in the early 1980s , etoposide emerged as the only drug with single-agent activity in cisplatin-refractory patients . based on preclinical data demonstrating synergy of cisplatin plus etoposide , the two-drug combination proved to be a useful salvage therapy , curing approximately 25 % of such patients . further evaluation of etoposide as part of initial therapy by the southeastern cancer study group ( secsg ) compared pvb with bleomycin , etoposide , and cisplatin ( bep ) in previously untreated patients with metastatic germ cell tumors . not only did bep have significantly less toxicity , it proved to be superior to pbv in patients with advanced disease . varying the dose and schedule of etoposide also may provide patients with potentially useful avenues of treatment . high-dose etoposide plus carboplatin in drug-refractory patients has produced durable cr in a cohort of treated patients ; it is currently being evaluated as part of initial salvage therapy . the schedule dependency of etoposide in small cell lung cancer led us to evaluate daily oral administration of etoposide in patients refractory to previous etoposide therapy ; objective response rates of approximately 15 % to 25 % were observed . in summary , etoposide remains an integral part of the treatment regimen for testis cancer . however , the incorporation of innovative dose and schedule combinations for etoposide may further improve its therapeutic index for this disease . 
adenine nucleotide changes in kidney , liver , and small intestine during different forms of ischemic injury . the purpose of this study was to better characterize renal adenine nucleotide pool responses to different forms of shock , contrast the changes to those found in other intra-abdominal organs ( the liver and small intestine ) , and assess whether these changes are closely mimicked by those produced by renal arterial occlusion , the usual method used to study ischemic acute renal failure . rats were subjected to hemorrhagic shock , septic shock , or cardiopulmonary shock of varying severities and durations . the liver consistently had the greatest energy depletion , followed by the kidney , and then the small intestine . however , only the kidney developed clear morphological damage ( s3 brush border sloughing ) . kidney adenylate pools were better preserved during septic shock and cardiopulmonary shock than during hemorrhagic shock despite comparable blood pressures . only profound hemorrhagic shock ( 35-40 mm hg for 25 minutes ) decreased total adenylate pools ( atp + adp + amp ) . however , the degree of renal catabolite ( nucleosides plus purine base ) accumulation did not correlate with the amount of renal total adenine nucleotide depletion , partially because circulating catabolites contributed to intrarenal catabolite pools . purine base/uric acid ratios differed among shocked organs , consistent with different degrees of xanthine oxidase activity ( small intestine greater than liver greater than kidney ) . renal morphological damage decreased during the immediate ( 0-30 minutes ) postshock period , and the extent of this improvement was not altered by xanthine oxidase inhibition ( oxypurinol ) , suggesting that the immediate postshock period is not one of serious oxidative injury . shock , in comparison with renal arterial occlusion , caused only modest atp loss/catabolite accumulation , very low purine base/uric acid ratios , and no immediate-reperfusion ( 0-30 minutes ) resynthesis of the total adenylate pool . thus , ischemia-induced renal adenylate changes may differ considerably , depending on the nature of the ischemic event . 
effects of thromboxane synthesis inhibitor triflusal on renal hemodynamics in microalbuminuric diabetic patients . triflusal ( 2-acetoxy-4-trifluormethylbenzoic acid ) is a platelet-antiaggregant drug that selectively inhibits thromboxane synthesis with little effect on prostacyclin production . in this study , we evaluated the effect of 5-day administration of 900 mg/day triflusal on glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) , renal plasma flow ( rpf ) , urinary albumin excretion ( uae ) , thromboxane b2 ( txb2 ) , 6-ketoprostaglandin f1 alpha ( pgf1 alpha ) , and pge2 in nine normotensive insulin-dependent diabetic patients with uae between 30 and 103 micrograms/min . plasma txb2 and plasma renin activity ( pra ) were also determined . after administration of triflusal , we observed a reduction in microalbuminuria ( 59 + / - 25 vs. 33 + / - 22 micrograms/min , p less than 0.01 ) , an increase in rpf ( 648 + / - 119 vs. 722 + / - 134 ml.min-1 x 1.73 m-2 , p less than 0.01 ) , and a reduction in filtration fraction ( 0.24 + / - 0.04 vs. 0.20 + / - 0.03 , p less than 0.01 ) . triflusal produced a significant reduction in both plasma txb2 ( 130 + / - 39 vs. 52 + / - 32 pg/ml , p less than 0.02 ) and urine txb2 ( 523 + / - 249 vs. 312 + / - 11 pg/min , p less than 0.02 ) , without changes in pra and uae of 6-keto-pgf1 alpha and pge2 . metabolic control and arterial blood pressure did not change during the study . these results suggest that platelet-antiaggregant therapy can reduce microalbuminuria in diabetic patients . this effect could be mediated by a reduction in the transglomerular hydraulic pressure through a vasodilation of efferent arterioles secondary to renal thromboxane synthesis inhibition . 
managing prostatitis in the elderly . bacterial prostatitis is primarily a disease of elderly men , and it is the most common urinary tract infection seen in this age group . urosepsis from prostatitis or prostatic abscess occurs less frequently than with urological manipulation , but must always be considered in elderly men with prostatitis . this article focuses on the diagnosis and antibiotic treatment of bacterial prostatitis in the elderly . 
on the mechanism of impaired insulin secretion in chronic renal failure . it has been suggested that a sustained rise in resting levels of cytosolic calcium [ ca2 + ] i of pancreatic islets is responsible for impaired insulin secretion in chronic renal failure ( crf ) . evidence for such an event is lacking and the mechanisms through which it may affect insulin secretion are not known . studies were conducted in normal , crf , and normocalcemic , parathyroidectomized ( ptx ) crf rats to answer these questions . resting levels of [ ca2 + ] i of islets from crf rats were higher ( p less than 0.01 ) than in control of crf-ptx rats . [ 3h ] 2-deoxyglucose uptake and camp production by islets were not different in the three groups . insulin content of , and glucose-induced insulin secretion by islets from crf rats was lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than in control and crf-ptx rats . in contrast , glyceraldehyde-induced insulin release by crf islets was normal . basal atp content , both glucose-stimulated atp content and atp/adp ratio , net lactic acid output , vmax of phosphofructokinase-1 , and ca2 + atpase of islets from crf rats were lower ( p less than 0.02-less than 0.01 ) than in normal or crf-ptx animals . data show that : ( a ) glucose but not glyceraldehyde-induced insulin secretion is impaired in crf ; ( b ) the impairment in glucose-induced insulin release in crf is due to a defect in the metabolism of glucose ; ( c ) this latter defect is due to reduced atp content induced partly by high [ ca2 + ] i of islets ; and ( d ) the high [ ca2 + ] i in islets of crf rats is due to augmented pth-induced calcium entry into cells and decreased calcium extrusion from the islets secondary to reduced activity of the ca2 + atpase . 
antibody coated bacteria in urine of patients with recent spinal injury . twenty patients with an acute spinal injury were prospectively studied to assess the clinical importance of antibody coated bacteria ( acb ) in the urine and the association among the different bacterial species with a positive antibody coated bacteria test . clinical urinary tract infection was associated with a positive acb test on 45 % of occasions . three hundred and ninety nine urine samples containing 541 bacterial isolates were assessed for the presence of acb ; 13 % were found to be positive and 87 % negative for acb ; 67 % of urines contained a single bacterial isolate . pseudomonas aeruginosa was most commonly associated with clinical urinary tract infection , found in 25 % of episodes , followed by proteus mirabilis ( 17.5 % ) , klebsiella sp ( 12.5 % ) , and proteus morganii ( 10 % ) . providencia stuartii , however , was most commonly associated with a positive acb test ( found in 17 % ) . other bacteria associated with a positive acb test included klebsiella sp ( 14 % ) , acinetobacter sp ( 12.5 % ) , pseudomonas aeruginosa ( 12 % ) , citrobacter sp ( 11.5 % ) . a positive acb test is not to be expected from a patient with spinal injury who has a catheter in place , and the test may provide a useful guide to identify those patients with an invasive infection . it is doubtful that a decision to treat or not treat bacteriuria could rest on the identification of the bacterial species alone . 
effectiveness of carboplatin , etoposide , and bleomycin combination chemotherapy in good-prognosis metastatic testicular nonseminomatous germ cell tumors . the combination of carboplatin , etoposide , and bleomycin ( ceb ) was evaluated as initial chemotherapy in 76 patients with good-prognosis metastatic nonseminomatous germ cell tumors ( nsgct ) between 1984 and 1988 . the classification of eligible patients included royal marsden hospital ( rmh ) stages im , iia , iib , iic , iiia , iiib , iv0abcl1 , and iv0abl2 . four courses of combination chemotherapy were administered in a 21-day cycle , and surgical excision of residual mass was performed in 27 cases ( 23 laparotomies and four thoracotomies ) . at the time of analysis , median follow-up was 24 months from start of chemotherapy ( range , 6 to 54 months ) . the 2-year cause-specific survival probability was 98.5 % , the single cause-related mortality being caused by bleomycin pneumonitis . five patients failed ceb chemotherapy , but all have been successfully salvaged with a combination of surgery and intensive chemotherapy , follow-up from completion of all treatment being 35 to 44 months . the toxicity of ceb included bone marrow suppression and alopecia in all patients but no significant neurotoxicity or ototoxicity , and minimal renal toxicity . only four ( 5 % ) patients had a decrease in the glomerular filtration rate greater than 15 % . in 51 % of patients , the hemoglobin fell below 10 g/dl . the wbc count nadir was less than 1,500 / microl in 11 % of treatment cycles and in 16 % the platelet nadir fell below 50,000 / microl . decreases in the wbc and platelet counts were of very brief duration . only one of 310 ceb cycles was complicated by neutropenic sepsis , and there were no episodes of thrombocytopenic purpura or bleeding . we conclude that the ceb combination represents an effective alternative to cisplatin-based chemotherapy in good-prognosis nsgct and that the replacement of cisplatin by carboplatin leads to reduced toxicity . 
a randomized trial of cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin versus vinblastine , cisplatin , and etoposide in the treatment of advanced germ cell tumors of the testis : a southwest oncology group study this is a southwest oncology group ( swog ) prospective randomized trial of cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin ( pvb ) versus vinblastine , cisplatin , and etoposide ( vp-16 ) ( vpv ) in the treatment of advanced germ cell tumors of the testis . the study objective was to determine what effect the replacement of bleomycin with vp-16 has on complete response ( cr ) , survival , and drug toxicity . one hundred sixty-nine patients were registered and randomized . of these patients , 160 were assessable for response . all had histologically confirmed disseminated germ cell neoplasms of testicular origin . forty-six had minimal metastatic disease , and 114 had maximal disease . seventy-seven were randomized to pvb and 83 to vpv chemotherapy . there was no significant difference in pretreatment characteristics between the two arms with regard to tumor burden , histologic type , and overall performance status . patients received four courses of induction chemotherapy , either pvb ( cisplatin 120 mg/m2 day 3 , vinblastine 12 mg/m2 day 1 , bleomycin 15 u/m2 twice per week ) or vpv ( vinblastine 8 mg/m2 day 1 , cisplatin 120 mg/m2 day 3 , vp-16 50 mg/m2 days 2 to 5 ) . chemotherapy was given every 3 weeks . cytoreductive surgery was done postinduction if a chemotherapy cr was not achieved . there was no difference in the percentage of patients achieving a disease-free status between pvb ( 77 % ) and vpv ( 73 % ) . the mean leukocyte nadir was similar for both treatments , but the mean platelet nadir was significantly lower ( p = .003 ) in the vpv arm . all bleomycin-related toxicities ( pulmonary , mucositis , skin ) were avoided in the vpv arm . we conclude that bleomycin can be replaced in first-line therapy for advanced germ cell tumors without sacrificing efficacy and with the advantage of avoiding unnecessary drug toxicity . 
tropical spastic paraparesis-like illness occurring in a patient dually infected with hiv-1 and htlv-ii . we describe a 34-year-old man from southern florida with a history of intravenous drug use , dually infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) and human t-lymphotropic virus type ii ( htlv-ii ) , who developed a myelopathy clinically indistinguishable from htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis ( ham/tsp ) . this myelopathy was characterized by spastic lower extremity weakness , distal paresthesias , sensory loss with a discrete thoracic level to pinprick , back pain , impotence , and sphincter disturbances . nerve conduction studies revealed an associated mixed axonal and demyelinative neuropathy . despite a lack of response to 10 months of zidovudine therapy , the myeloneuropathy improved dramatically 2 years after its onset in the absence of any therapeutic intervention . 
lack of evidence for link between intradental lesions and chronic renal failure . in at least three publications , radiographic intradental changes have been mentioned in connection with end-stage renal failure with and without renal osteodystrophy . the influence of immunosuppressive therapy has been suggested . in 63 patients with one or a combination of the above-mentioned criteria , no evidence was found on intradental radiolucencies or of extreme narrowing ( obliteration ) of the dental pulp cavity . 
cryoglobulinemia induced by a murine igg3 rheumatoid factor : skin vasculitis and glomerulonephritis arise from distinct pathogenic mechanisms . mrl-lpr/lpr mice spontaneously develop a lupus-like syndrome characterized by immunopathological manifestations such as necrotizing vascular lesions of ear tips and severe glomerulonephritis . similar skin vascular and glomerular lesions associated with cryoglobulinemia can be induced in normal mice by injection of a monoclonal antibody ( mab ) -- 6-19 ( gamma 3 heavy chain and kappa light chain ) , exhibiting both cryoglobulin and anti-igg2a rheumatoid factor ( rf ) activities -- derived from the mrl-lpr/lpr autoimmune mouse . to determine the role of rf and/or igg3 fc fragment-associated cryoglobulin activities in 6-19 mab-induced tissue lesions , a 6-19-j558l hybrid mab ( gamma 3 heavy chain and lambda 1 light chain ) was produced by fusion between the 6-19 hybridoma and the j558l myeloma . here we report that the 6-19-j558l hybrid mab , which loses the rf activity but retains the cryoglobulin activity , fails to induce skin vascular lesions . however , it is still able to provoke glomerular lesions identical to those caused by the 6-19 mab . further , we have observed that the depletion of the corresponding autoantigen , igg2a , in mice by treatment with anti-igm antisera from birth also prevents the development of skin but not glomerular lesions . our results indicate that both rf and cryoglobulin activities of the 6-19 mab are required for the development of skin vasculitis , but its cryoglobulin activity alone is sufficient to cause glomerular lesions . in addition , cdna cloning and sequencing of the 6-19 mab has revealed that the 6-19 kappa light chain variable region amino acid sequence is encoded in a germ-line configuration , suggesting that immunoglobulin variable region germ-line genes could contribute to the generation of pathogenic autoantibodies . 
the natural history of renal stone disease after parathyroidectomy for primary hyperparathyroidism . the evolution of renal stone disease has been followed , before and after parathyroidectomy , in 197 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . before operation , 120 patients had had a previous history of renal colics or stones , or both , demonstrated on roentgenograms of the urinary tract . in 36 patients with stones that had been passed or removed before exploration of the neck , no recurrence of lithiasis has been observed . in 84 patients who still had stones at the time of the operation , the stones dissolved and disappeared within ten years in 88 per cent of those with urolithiasis and in 77 per cent with nephrocalcinosis . the rate of stone disappearance was similar in those with or without preoperative urinary tract infection and in patients operated upon for adenoma of the parathyroid gland or primary hyperplasia . this rate was slower for patients with a postoperative urinary infection . the frequency of renal colics , 0.66 per patient per year before parathyroidectomy , decreased to 0.02 per patient per year after the first postoperative year . 
an algorithm for diagnosis and therapy of management and complications of urolithiasis during pregnancy . from 1 january 1986 to 30 june 1989 , 15 pregnant women were diagnosed as having urolithiasis . patients presented in the last two trimesters with an infection of the lower part of the urinary tract ( 60 per cent ) , flank and abdominal pain ( 27 per cent ) and hematuria ( 13 per cent ) . ultrasonographic findings confirmed the diagnosis in 47 per cent of the patients . other roentgenologic procedures were required in the remaining patients . initially , therapy was conservative in all , and in 67 per cent of patients , no further intervention was necessary . only 33 per cent required invasive measures ; cystoscopic passage of an internal ureteral stent was the initial procedure of choice at our institution . three of five patients who underwent invasive procedures had surgical intervention for relief of ureteral obstruction . intensive care management was necessary for one of these three patients who had acute hemorrhage occur during the procedure . these data emphasize the need for the accurate diagnosis of urolithiasis during pregnancy . ultrasonography was a valuable diagnostic technique , but a limited excretory urogram is safe and appropriate when there is uncertainty . conservative management ( hydration , analgesia and antibiotics as indicated ) of obstructive uropathy was successful in the majority of instances . a specific clinical algorithm facilitated the successful management of patients necessitating operative intervention . optimal management requires clinical suspicion and a precise diagnostic and therapeutic plan . 
efficacy of doxazosin in specific hypertensive patient groups . in practice , some of the major problems for the physician who treats hypertension are patients who are resistant to treatment or who have other complicating risk syndromes . therefore the overall efficacy of an antihypertensive agent must include an assessment of effect in patients with serious ancillary problems . in this article , doxazosin is reviewed for its efficacy in the treatment of severe essential hypertension and specific complications or conditions of mild or moderate essential hypertension , namely , left ventricular hypertrophy , hyperlipidemia , noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , renal insufficiency , pheochromocytoma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , peripheral vascular disease , and smoking . doxazosin is particularly efficacious in many specific subgroups of patients with hypertension , and the results of relevant studies are discussed . 
an evaluation of the efficacy and safety of doxazosin in hypertension associated with renal dysfunction . the japanese doxazosin study group . doxazosin was administered once daily to 26 patients with renal hypertension or hypertension associated with renal dysfunction . doxazosin produced a significant reduction in blood pressure that was stable throughout the treatment period . a significant change was not observed in heart rate . blood pressure was " markedly decreased " or " decreased " in 80 % of patients receiving doxazosin monotherapy , 78.6 % of patients receiving combined therapy , and 79.2 % of all the patients . the cumulative efficacy ratio according to final daily dose was 62.5 % with 1 to 4 mg/day and 75.0 % to 79.2 % with 8 to 16 mg/day . side effects were observed in three patients ( 12.0 % ) , none of them severe , and all side effects disappeared with continued administration of doxazosin . abnormal laboratory values in six items were observed in four patients . serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen values , which were regarded as renal function parameters , did not show significant changes , and no negative influence was observed with respect to doxazosin therapy . overall clinical usefulness was considered " very useful " or " useful " in 80 % of patients receiving doxazosin monotherapy , 78.6 % of patients receiving combination therapy , and 79.2 % of all patients . in conclusion , once-daily administration of doxazosin was considered a useful antihypertensive therapy for renal hypertension and hypertension associated with renal dysfunction . 
sickle cell trait revisited . variability in the clinical severity of sickle cell diseases is often genetically determined . coexistent alpha-thalassemia decreases some , but not all , associated morbid complications . polymorphisms within the beta-globin-like gene cluster influence disease severity by varying gamma-gene expression and the amount of hb f within the cells . few persons with the sickle cell trait experience adverse consequences attributable to the beta s gene . is this also due to genetic factors ? a literature search failed to answer this question . it is intriguing , however , that reported associations of sickle cell trait and splenic infarction have occurred exclusively in males and mostly in whites . plausible but scanty data suggest that splenic infarction , hematuria , and reduced renal concentrating ability may be associated with higher amounts of hb s. therefore , alpha-thalassemia may be protective . no evidence was found that the amount of hb s influenced the incidence of sudden death after exertion or that increased amounts of hb f accounted for protection against any complications . more detailed reporting of biochemical and genetic evaluations of persons with sickle cell trait who experience related clinical events may lead to a better understanding of risks in subpopulations of persons carrying a single beta s gene . 
abnormalities of von willebrand factor multimers in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome . purpose : to analyze and review von willebrand factor ( vwf ) multimeric patterns in patients with single-episode thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) , intermittent ttp ( episodes at infrequent , irregular intervals ) , chronic relapsing ttp ( episodes at frequent , regular intervals ) , and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome ( hus ) . patients and methods : platelet-poor plasma samples were obtained in edta , citrate , or citrate-hirudin-aprotinin-leupeptin from 36 patients with single-episode ttp , eight patients with intermittent ttp , four patients with chronic relapsing ttp , and 26 patients with hus . the samples were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-agarose gel electrophoresis , overlaid with rabbit 125i-anti-human vwf igg , and analyzed by autoradiography . results : abnormalities of vwf multimers were found in platelet-poor plasma samples from 31 of 36 found in platelet-poor plasma samples from 31 of 36 patients ( 86 % ) at the onset of and during their single ttp episode . vwf multimers larger than those in normal plasma , and similar to vwf forms observed within normal human endothelial cells ( unusually large vwf multimers ) , were demonstrated in 31 % of the patients ; 19 % had either unusually large vwf multimers or a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf forms in different serial samples ; 36 % had a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf forms . these results imply that endothelial cell injury or intense stimulation , along with the attachment of unusually large vwf multimers and the largest plasma vwf forms to platelets , occurred during the single ttp episodes in most patients . patterns of vwf multimers were normal in 92 % of patients with single-episode ttp studied after recovery . all eight patients with intermittent ttp and the four patients with chronic relapsing ttp had unusually large vwf multimers in their plasma between episodes , and these multimers decreased or disappeared during relapses . of 26 children and adults with hus , 14 had a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf multimeric forms and one had unusually large vwf multimers during the episode ( vwf multimeric abnormalities in 58 % of the patients ) . conclusion : it is probable that vwf was involved in the pathophysiology of ttp in most of these patients with the single-episode , intermittent , or chronic relapsing types of ttp , and in more than 50 % of the patients with hus . 
glomerular structures and lipids in progressive renal disease . in the last few years , remarkable advances have been made in the understanding of lipoprotein metabolism in the pathogenesis of renal disease in animal models and in vitro cell culture . central to this work is the problem of the progression of renal disease in humans . this review recapitulates the theory ( lancet 1982 ; ii : 1309-1312 ) that the progression of disease depends in part on the damage inflicted on the glomerulus by lipoproteins . the glomerular environment of high or low pressure , basement membrane damage , and destruction or damage of the mesangial and epithelial cells permits the filtration of protein , the consequence of which is hyperlipidemia . whatever the therapeutic measures employed , if proteinuria persists , hyperlipidemia will follow . this suggest that lipoprotein toxicity may contribute to the final common path of renal damage in progressive renal disease . " lipoprotein toxicity " in arteries is called atherosclerosis , but this term ignores the complexity of the glomerulus and the possible tubular damage that might be caused by filtered lipoprotein . it is clear there is insufficient knowledge of the metabolism of the damaged kidney to confidently attribute the pathology of progression of disease to any single process . 
therapeutic implications of lipid-lowering agents in the progression of renal disease . progressive deterioration in renal function frequently occurs in the absence of the original cause of injury . during the past decade , intense investigations into the factors responsible for progressive nephron destruction have demonstrated that hemodynamic stresses and metabolic and coagulation abnormalities participate in glomerular injury . hyperlipidemia is a common abnormality in renal disease and is frequently aggravated by protein-uria . experimentally , therapy with the lipid-lowering agents clofibric acid or lovastatin reduced circulating lipids , particularly cholesterol , decreased proteinuria , and prevented glomerular damage in normotensive and hypertensive models of progressive renal disease . these beneficial effects occurred independently of changes in systemic blood pressure or glomerular injury , supporting the notion that cholesterol or its accompanying changes , or both , were central in lipid modulation of glomerulosclerosis . clinically , lipid abnormalities are common in patients with renal disease , and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is the most frequent cause of death in these patients . although the role of lipids in atherosclerotic disease has been well established , whether a similar effect of lipids occurs in the microvasculature of the kidney is unknown . whether therapeutic approaches directed at reducing hyperlipidemia in patients with renal disease will provide a measure of renal protection , as has been seen in experimental models of renal disease , is also unknown . 
hyperlipidemia of nephrosis : pathophysiologic role in progressive glomerular disease . during the past few years , the increasing speculation that the hyperlipidemia of nephrosis may be one of several pathogenic mechanisms involved in the progression of initial glomerular injury to glomerulosclerosis has generated many clinical and experimental investigations . this discussion reviews pertinent studies that address two major issues . first , the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms involved in the development of the hyperlipidemia of nephrosis are explored . second , this article examines recent studies that investigate how this secondary hyperlipidemia may further aggravate initial glomerular injury and contribute to a progressive glomerulopathy , primarily mediated through alterations in monocyte/macrophage function . 
rationale and management of hyperlipidemia of the nephrotic syndrome . hyperlipidemia is usually present in patients with the nephrotic syndrome . the most common lipid abnormality is hypercholesterolemia , although as the disorder progresses , hypertriglyceridemia may develop . elevated plasma lipids have two potential vascular consequences , namely , atherosclerosis and progression of renal failure . neither of these complications has been proven with certainty , but there is growing evidence to indicate that both may be long-term consequences of the nephrotic syndrome . therefore , effective therapy of hyperlipidemia , particularly elevated cholesterol levels , is needed as a protection against these complications . since nephrotic hypercholesterolemia frequently is severe , dietary therapy , although a valuable adjunct , will not normalize cholesterol levels in most nephrotic patients . thus , if effective serum cholesterol lowering is to be achieved , drug therapy will be required . bile acid-binding resins have been shown to lower cholesterol levels in nephrotic patients , but the decline in cholesterol concentrations is usually insufficient to produce a marked reduction in coronary risk . nicotinic acid theoretically should be useful for treatment of nephrotic hyperlipidemia , but it has not been adequately tested . the new drugs that inhibit cholesterol synthesis , e.g. , lovastatin , appear to be highly promising for treating elevations of both serum cholesterol and triglycerides in the nephrotic syndrome . however , testing of these drugs in this condition has been limited , and the possibility of significant side effects in an appreciable portion of patients has not been ruled out . of particular concern is the development of severe myopathy that can produce myoglobinuria and acute renal failure . this side effect is relatively rare in patients without the nephrotic syndrome , but its prevalence in the latter condition has not been determined . the fibric acids will lower triglyceride levels in nephrotic patients , but they are not effective in lowering cholesterol levels ; consequently , they probably have little role in the treatment of nephrotic hypercholesterolemia . finally , the drug probucol will lower cholesterol levels in nephrotic patients , although not to desirable levels ; still , probucol could prove useful in combination with other cholesterol-lowering drugs . 
genetic differences in susceptibility to glomerular sclerosis : a role for lipids ? to better understand the pathogenesis of focal and segmental glomerular hyalinosis and sclerosis ( fsghs ) , a variety of animal models have been developed -- mainly in rats -- that allow a comprehensive study of all variables involved , such as hemodynamic , genetic , and metabolic factors . in this article , we briefly review the role of lipids in the pathogenesis of fsghs and provide evidence that " atherosclerosis of the glomerular mesangium " contributes to the ultimate histopathologic lesion of fsghs in susceptible rat strains . observations in a fsghs-resistant strain revealed several characteristic features that may protect these rats against chronic renal disease such as high nephron numbers , glomerular visceral epithelial cells with a remarkable resistance to toxic injury , minimal sequestration of serum proteins and cholesterol from the circulation into the mesangium , and a remarkable lipoprotein profile in normal as well as nephrotic states with a very low cholesterol content of the very-low-density and low-density lipoprotein fractions . recent clinicopathologic studies also indicate a correlation between hyperlipidemia and the progression of renal disease . the concept of lipid-mediated glomerular injury warrants further study . 
hyperlipidemia and glomerular sclerosis : an alternative viewpoint . clinical and experimental observations suggest an association between hypercholesterolemia and progressive glomerular injury . in the main , most investigators have assumed that hypercholesterolemia induces an atherosclerotic process in the renal microvasculature analogous to that well recognized in larger vessels . the evidence for this line of reasoning is well described in other papers in this symposium . it is our belief that hypercholesterolemia may also lead to glomerular injury by hemodynamic mechanisms . in support of this latter view , diet-induced hypercholesterolemia often raises blood pressure in experimental animals and markedly impairs endothelial cell-dependent vascular relaxation in vitro . a high cholesterol diet also increases renal vascular resistance and contributes to glomerular capillary hypertension , a hemodynamic maladaptation known to cause glomerular sclerosis . in addition , hypercholesterolemia results in hyperviscosity , a rheologic abnormality leading to increased efferent arteriolar resistance and glomerular hypertension . the similar glomerular hemodynamic responses to two hyperviscosity states , elevated hematocrit and hypercholesterolemia , implicate efferent arteriolar hyperviscosity as a potential mechanism of injury common to hyperviscosity states . it therefore seems likely that as in atherosclerosis , multiple risk factors act synergistically to initiate glomerular structural injury . specifically , we suggest that hypercholesterolemia and glomerular hypertension act synergistically to initiate structural injury . although modification of either risk factor may limit injury , it seems likely that therapy targeted to each of multiple risk factors may afford superior protection . 
similarities between glomerular sclerosis and atherosclerosis in human renal biopsy specimens : a role for lipoprotein glomerulopathy . much recent work has focused on the progressive nature of renal injury , and hemodynamic alterations have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the predominant lesion , focal glomerulosclerosis . despite the well-documented atherogenic toxicity of lipids in cardiovascular morbidity , little is known about lipid-associated renal injury . however , lipids are toxic to endothelium , and the glomerulus is a vascular bundle . several authors participating in this symposium have presented evidence for an association between hyperlipidemia and glomerulosclerosis in animal models . this association is particularly significant given the expanded therapeutic armamentarium now available to treat hyperlipidemia . in fact , glomerular injury may be moderated by pharmacologic treatment of hyperlipidemia in a rat renal ablation model . very little evidence exists , however , for a similar association in human renal disease . we have , in the course of clinical practice , made certain observations in renal biopsy specimens that may for the first time link atherogenesis and lipid deposition to human glomerular injury . 
lipid abnormalities , renal failure , and parathyroid hormone . a substantial number of patients with chronic renal failure display type iv lipoproteinemia . they have elevated serum levels of very-low-density , intermediate-density , and low-density lipoprotein . serum cholesterol levels are usually normal and those of high-density lipoprotein are low . it is generally accepted that hypertriglyceridemia is due to decreased removal from the blood secondary to reduced activity of lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase . secondary hyperparathyroidism and elevated blood levels of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) may play an important role in the pathogenesis of the triglyceridemia of chronic renal failure . indeed , parathyroidectomized-normocalcemic dogs with chronic renal failure have normal serum levels of triglyceride , normal fat tolerance , and normal post-heparin lipolytic activity . available data indicate that the abnormalities in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in chronic renal failure are linked . excess pth suppresses insulin release from pancreatic islets , and the insulin deficiency results in carbohydrate intolerance . insulin deficiency also causes decreased synthesis of lipoprotein lipase and hence abnormal lipid metabolism . thus , the hyperparathyroidism of chronic renal failure may play a paramount role in the genesis of the abnormal metabolism of both carbohydrates and lipids . 
the hyperlipidemia of the nephrotic syndrome . lipid abnormalities in patients with the nephrotic syndrome have long been recognized . however , the significance of these lipid abnormalities , the mechanisms producing them , and their potential treatment have all been a cause of debate . recent data have helped clarify each of these areas of controversy . studies of the lipoprotein abnormalities of patients with the uncomplicated nephrotic syndrome have shown that many will have elevated levels of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , whereas only a few will have elevated levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . if these lipid abnormalities have the same significance in this population as in other populations studied , then some patients with unremitting nephrotic syndrome will be at high risk for cardiovascular disease . the elevated cholesterol levels noted in the nephrotic syndrome are caused primarily by enhanced hepatic synthesis , with lesser contributions by decreased clearance and altered enzyme activities . the signal for enhanced hepatic lipogenesis may relate to changes in plasma albumin concentration , plasma oncotic pressure , a local effect of viscosity at the hepatic sinusoidal level , or a loss of urinary proteins or other liporegulatory substances . recently , a number of short-term studies in nephrotic patients have documented the safety and efficacy of lipid-lowering drugs such as the bile acid-binding resins , probucol , and the hmgcoa ( hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a ) reductase inhibitors . 
serum lipids in patients with chronic renal failure on long-term , protein-restricted diets . disordered lipid metabolism is believed to play an important role in accelerating the progression of chronic renal disease toward uremia . we examine this hypothetic role of lipids in a large population of patients on long-term dietary protein restriction . in our experience , there is no conclusive evidence that lipids may accelerate the progression of functional deterioration in patients with reduced renal function . hyperlipidemia seems to be only one among the many factors affecting the prognosis of primary renal disease . dietary protein restriction is effective in maintaining normal or only slightly elevated serum lipid levels in patients with early renal failure . moreover , patients with renal failure maintained on this diet , which provides an elevated ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids , have a more favorable lipid composition of erythrocyte membrane ( low percentage of saturated fatty acids and high percentage of polyunsaturated fatty acids ) when compared with patients on an unrestricted diet . 
cholesterol and lipid disturbances in renal disease : the natural history of uremic dyslipidemia and the impact of hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . lipid abnormalities have been postulated to contribute to renal insufficiency by a mechanism that is analogous to atherogenesis . the majority of patients treated for chronic renal failure die of cardiovascular complications . lipid abnormalities in this group are thought to contribute to this high mortality . proving a causal association between dyslipidemia and accelerated atherosclerosis in the end-stage renal disease population has been confounded by the presence of other pro-atherogenic conditions in this population . the current study compiles the lipid data we have accumulated from our renal population for the years 1987 to 1989 . the report is divided into three main parts : the first is a survey of lipid levels and atherogenicity indicators in groups with different types of renal disease or modalities of treatment . the second is a multivariate analysis of the relationship of clinical and biochemical variables ( and their interactions ) to the serum lipid and apolipoprotein levels and their ratios and their change over time in a large dialysis population . in the third study , we quantitate the peritoneal clearances of apolipoproteins a-i and b in patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and assess the relationship of these clearances to serum lipid and lipoprotein levels and risk ratios . 
desmopressin-induced improvement in bleeding times in chronic renal failure patients correlates with platelet serotonin uptake and atp release . hemostatic defects resulting in life-threatening hemorrhagic episodes are a common occurrence in the chronic renal failure patient . hemorrhagic tendencies correlate best with laboratory tests of bleeding times . the identification of a specific hemostatic defect and its role in bleeding dyscrasias has yet to be elucidated . our studies demonstrate that factor viii coagulant activity and factor viii related antigen ( vwf : ag ) are normal or greatly elevated in uremic renal failure patients with greatly prolonged bleeding times . the multimeric state of the von willebrand factor is also normal in these patients . the bleeding times were normalized in all 15 patients , 90 minutes post-infusion with desmopressin ( ddavp ) . no significant changes in factor viii/vwf associated properties , blood cell counts , or coagulation factors were observed post-ddavp treatment . however , a significant increase in platelet serotonin uptake ( p less than .025 ) and atp release ( p less than .025 ) was detected after ddavp treatment . these results indicate that ddavp acts on the platelet membrane . this is further substantiated by the ability of ddavp to block vasopressin-induced platelet aggregation in a dose - and time-dependent fashion . perturbations in the movement and storage of serotonin and the release of adenosine 5 ' - triphosphate ( atp ) in the platelets of uremic individuals are proposed to play a critical role in regulating bleeding times . 
renal disease in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . diabetic nephropathy now accounts for approximately one-third of all patients who develop end-stage renal disease . the estimated cost to supply renal replacement therapy for this population now exceeds $ 750 million . the relatively recent realization that half of these individuals suffer from noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has sparked increased interest in attempts to understand the pathologic processes involved and how they may be similar or different from those alterations seen in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . basic and clinical investigation continues in an attempt to solve the puzzle of pathogenesis , as well as answer questions about the clinical usefulness of microalbuminuria and the appropriate management of hypertension in this population . 
can the rate of progression of chronic renal failure be altered ? the cost of renal replacement therapy for end-stage renal disease in the united states exceeds three billion dollars per year . nonimmunologic mechanisms may contribute to progressive renal injury in renal failure of diverse etiologies . based on the potential adverse renal effects of these processes , a number of dietary and pharmacologic interventions have been proposed as being potentially beneficial in slowing the rate of progression of chronic renal failure to end-stage renal disease . this article reviews current evidence in animal models and humans supporting the efficacy of each of the proposed interventions . 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of doxacurium in normal patients and in those with hepatic or renal failure . we determined the pharmacokinetics and duration of action of a bolus dose of doxacurium ( 15 micrograms/kg ) in 27 patients anesthetized with isoflurane and nitrous oxide . nine patients had normal renal and liver functions and were undergoing a variety of surgical procedures , nine were undergoing cadaveric kidney transplantation because of end-stage renal disease , and nine were undergoing cadaveric liver transplantation because of end-stage hepatocellular disease . plasma concentrations of doxacurium were measured for 6 h after administration using a sensitive and specific capillary gas chromatographic assay . plasma concentration versus time data were analyzed by a noncompartmental method based on statistical moments . neuromuscular blockade was assessed by measuring the electromyographic evoked response of the adductor pollicis muscle to train-of-four stimulation of the ulnar nerve . the degree of neuromuscular blockade after doxacurium administration was described as the percent of control of the first train-of-four response . the pharmacokinetic variables were ( normal vs hepatic failure vs renal failure , respectively ) : volume of distribution at steady state ( 220 + / - 110 vs 290 + / - 60 vs 270 + / - 130 ml/kg [ mean + / - sd ] ) , plasma clearance ( 2.7 + / - 1.6 vs 2.3 + / - 0.4 vs 1.2 + / - 0.7 ml.kg-1 . min-1 ) , mean residence time ( 95.2 + / - 57 vs 129.4 + / - 30 vs 270 + / - 210 min ) , and elimination half-life ( 99 + / - 54 vs 115 + / - 31 vs 221 + / - 156 min ) . plasma clearance and mean residence time differed significantly between patients with renal failure and control patients . 
liver transplantation in children . although liver transplantation is now accepted as the ideal therapy for end-stage liver disease , relatively few centers have gained a large experience in children , and good results have been elusive . technical difficulty and a high incidence of graft failure are among the obstacles to success . at the university of california at los angeles , 39 % of our liver transplants are in the patients who are younger than 18 years . we have analyzed our experience with 103 patients to emphasize factors important to a favorable outcome with the procedure . one hundred twenty-three transplants were performed in 103 children ( mean age , 5.2 years ; 48 % younger than 3 years ) . no reduced-size grafts were used . scrupulous attention to technical details of the vascular reconstruction , including frequent use of the supraceliac aorta of the recipient and interrupted suture techniques , ensured construction of sound hepatic artery and portal vein anastomoses at the first operation . preoperative exchange transfusions were used if the prothrombin time was prolonged beyond 7 seconds , resulting in an average blood loss of only 3.3 volumes . cyclosporine dosage was maintained in the high therapeutic range for the first 4 weeks , and anti-t-cell antibody ( okt3 ) was used for rejection ( 38 % ) . amphotericin prophylaxis was used for biliary atresia patients with multiple previous operations . eighty-two of one hundred three patients ( 80 % ) are alive . there were no intraoperative deaths . actuarial survival rates at 6 months , 1 year , and 5 years are 80 % , 79 % , and 77 % , respectively . survival of patients who underwent transplantation at age less than 1 year is 65 % versus 85 % at age more than 1 year ( p = 0.08 ) . retransplantation was performed in 19 patients ( 18 % ) , with a survival rate of 58 % . hepatic artery thrombosis , the most frequent technical complication , occurred in only 16 patients ( 13 % ) . survival rates of abo identical-match versus nonidentical-match grafts were 96 % and 60 % , respectively ( p = 0.02 ) . graft survival was only 47 % if more than one steroid cycle was needed , compared to 75 % survival with okt3 treatment . despite impairment of renal function ( glomerular filtration rate [ gfr ] less than 80 cc/kg/min ) in 54 % of patients and hypertension requiring therapy in 27 % , 90 % of the children demonstrated enhancement of growth , development , and functional status . the following conclusions were made . ( 1 ) pediatric liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for all types of end-stage liver disease and should be considered early . ( 2 ) factors that enhance survival include technical precision , aggressive retransplantation , antifungal chemoprophylaxis and therapy , and judicious immunosuppression with use of okt3 for rejection . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
effect of race on expression of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated nephropathy . the prevalence of renal disease associated with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is unknown , but appears to vary in different regions . centers in new york , ny , and miami , fla , have reported patients with renal disease complicating aids . these populations have included large proportions of black patients and intravenous drug abusers . reports from san francisco , calif , have suggested the prevalence of renal disease complicating aids is low , but the population was composed primarily of white patients , with a low proportion of drug abusers . the george washington university medical center was the site of treatment for 31.4 % of the patients with aids in washington , dc . this population was split roughly evenly between black and white patients . a retrospective survey of patients with both aids and renal disease revealed approximately two thirds of the patients were black , reflecting the demographics of the population with aids ; 11 % of patients had intravenous drug abuse as a risk factor for the development of aids ; and 74 % had acute renal failure . of these patients , approximately equal proportions were black and white . twenty-six percent of the population had chronic renal failure , but the overwhelming proportion were black . there were no differences between proportions of patients in age , sex , race , or risk factors in patients with acute renal failure and chronic renal failure , but there was a significant difference in the proportions of black and white patients with chronic renal failure . the reason for these differences is unknown , but differences in host responses to viral proteins , physiologic adaptations , or socioeconomic factors in these populations may play an important role in mediating the expression of renal disease in individual patients . 
the epidemiologic features of nosocomial infections in patients with trauma . sepsis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with trauma . to elucidate factors that might lead to infection , we studied the epidemiologic characteristics of nosocomial infections in our patient population with trauma . during a 3.5-year period , 2496 patients were entered into our hospital trauma registry and cross-matched with hospital infection control surveillance information . two hundred twenty-nine patients with trauma and nosocomial infections were identified ( 9.2 % ) , a figure that was nearly twice the nosocomial infection rate for the general hospital population . the majority of those infected were either orthopedic ( 51 % ) , general surgical ( 25 % ) , or neurosurgical ( 13 % ) patients . the most common sites of first infection were urinary tract ( 61 % ) or respiratory system ( 14 % ) . patients developing nosocomial infections were significantly older and had a higher injury severity score than those who did not . injury site was related to risk of infection with injuries of the spine , chest , and extremity showing the most significant relationship . the length of stay as well as hospital charges were significantly related to the occurrence of infectious complications . by determining the patient with trauma at risk for infection , treatment strategies can be designed to minimize septic complications . 
oral indomethacin for acute renal colic . a number of studies have suggested that nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents can relieve renal colic by a mechanism of action different from that of narcotics , offering the potential advantage of avoiding narcotic side-effects such as alteration of mental status . the authors prospectively administered oral indomethacin , 50 mg , to 25 nonvomiting patients with acute renal colic due to a documented stone . eleven patients group ( i ) received the drug in an unblinded , nonrandomized fashion after failure of oral or parenteral narcotics to provide satisfactory pain relief , either at home or in the emergency department . in 14 additional patients group ( ii ) indomethacin was given as the only initial treatment . pain intensity before and after treatment was reported using a 1-to-10 scale . in group i , pain decreased from 5.8 + / - 2.7 to 3.6 + / - 3.8 ( p less than .02 ) . six of the 11 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50 % or more , which occurred within 25 + / - 11 minutes , and in 5 of these 6 , pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level . in group ii , pain decreased from 7.6 + / - 1.5 to 4.6 + / - 4.0 ( p less than .008 ) . eight of the 14 patients reported a decrease in pain intensity of 50 % or more , which occurred within 40 + / - 14 minutes , and in 5 of these 8 pain decreased to a 0 or 1 level . among all 25 patients who received indomethacin , pain relief was not significantly associated with the duration of pain before treatment or with patient age or sex . there was a trend for pretreatment pain intensity to be higher among nonresponders ( p = .07 ) . 
perianal streptococcal cellulitis with penile involvement . perianal streptococcal cellulitis is described occurring in a 5-year-old boy . the condition also involved the penis and presented as a possible case of sexual abuse . the correct diagnosis was established by culturing beta-haemolytic streptococci group a from the penile and perianal skin . 
response rates and survival in primary systemic amyloidosis . patients ( 153 ) with biopsy-proven primary systemic amyloidosis ( al ) were evaluated for their response rate to alkylating agent-based chemotherapy . twenty-seven of the patients ( 18 % ) responded . the serum creatinine concentration had an adverse effect on response rate ( p = .05 ) . in patients with nephrotic syndrome , a normal serum creatinine value , and no echocardiographic evidence of cardiac amyloidosis , the response rate was 39 % ( 12 of 31 ) . five of 34 patients with amyloid cardiomyopathy responded . two of these five are alive 10 years after diagnosis . none of the 18 patients with amyloid peripheral neuropathy showed regression of their disease . the median time to achieve response was 11.7 months . the median survival of the 27 patients was 89.4 months and 21 of 27 survived 5 years ( 78 % ) . eight patients remain alive with a minimum follow-up of 90 months . seven died of acute leukemia or dysmyelopoietic syndrome , a presumed complication of melphalan therapy . in the group of 126 patients who showed no response to alkylating agent-based therapy , the median survival was 14.7 months and 9 ( 7 % ) survived over 5 years . all 126 patients have died . alkylating agent-based chemotherapy for al is beneficial in a subset of patients and a trial of chemotherapy is strongly recommended . those patients who do respond demonstrate survival benefit . 
urological complications in 350 consecutive renal transplants . ten urological complications ( 2.9 % ) were found in 350 kidney transplants performed in this centre . these included obstructive uropathy ( 20 % ) , urinary leaks ( 40 % ) , distal uretic fistulas ( necrosis ) ( 30 % ) and renal calculi ( 10 % ) . two grafts were lost due to chronic rejection 9 and 30 months post-operatively . the remaining 8 patients have stable renal function ( mean creatinine 1.5 mg % ) . it was concluded that meticulous surgical technique may reduce the number of urological complications and early diagnosis and prompt surgical treatment may help to save the grafts . 
emphysematous pyelonephritis : surgical implications . emphysematous pyelonephritis in patients with diabetes mellitus is increasingly recognised as a disease requiring urgent and aggressive treatment . we present 3 cases of emphysematous pyelonephritis ; 1 patient required percutaneous nephrostomy followed by nephroureterectomy but the other 2 were successfully managed with antibiotics and control of diabetes . diagnosis was confirmed by sequential imaging techniques which demonstrated an inflammatory renal mass associated with gas and fluid . 
excretion of urinary protein induced by extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy . an investigation was carried out into renal injury caused by extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy ( epl ) using an edap lithotriptor . four urinary proteins , with a molecular weight range of 160000-14500 , immunoglobulin g ( igg ) , n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase ( nag ) , albumin and lysozyme , were monitored in 27 patients 1 day before and 1 , 7 , 30 , 90 and 180 days after unilateral epl treatment . all patients had non-obstructive renal stones , previously untreated . apart from 5 patients with stablised hypertension and 6 with persistent urinary infections due to the infected stones , all patients appeared healthy , as confirmed by clinical , haematological and biochemical investigations . only albumin levels increased significantly 1 day after treatment ; statistically nonsignificant increases and decreases were recorded in the levels of nag and lysozome respectively . igg was beyond the limit of detection ( less than 0.5 mg % ) in all patients . the albumin level returned to normal 7 days after treatment . the epl-induced increase in albumin was recorded in 88 % of patients , compared with increased levels of nag in 46 % and lysozyme in 64 % , mainly in those with infected stones . these findings indicated a transient glomerular injury after epl treatment . 
do stone formers have lower urinary fibrinolytic activity than controls ? a comparison of urinary fibrinolytic activity between 31 stone formers and 50 controls failed to demonstrate any significant difference and so failed to confirm an earlier independent observation . this may be due to methodological and design differences between the 2 studies , but does suggest reservations about the significance of lowered urinary fibrinolytic activity as a risk factor for renal stone disease . dietary information from those taking part in the study suggests that a reduction of meat intake by stone formers might be associated with increased urinary fibrinolytic activity . this might account for the discrepancy between the 2 studies , in which case this observation could be of significance . 
renal angiomyolipoma : report of 24 cases . a series of 24 patients with renal angiomyolipoma was reviewed . their ages ranged from 10 to 70 years ( average 41 ) . four cases were associated with tuberous sclerosis , 1 with spinal neurilemmoma , 1 with transitional cell carcinoma and another with renal tuberculosis . the presenting symptoms in decreasing frequencies were flank pain , mass , haematuria , fever , syncope and respiratory distress . although it has often been said that angiomyolipomas associated with tuberous sclerosis are small and asymptomatic , all 4 such patients in this study had large symptomatic tumours . before the advent of ct scan and ultrasonography , the pre-operative diagnostic rate for cases unassociated with tuberous sclerosis was 10 % ( 1/10 ) . with the combined use of these 2 modalities , the diagnostic rate increased to 60 % ( 6/10 ) . most patients in this series were treated with nephrectomy . however , equally good outcomes occurred in 2 patients who received partial nephrectomies . pre-operative diagnosis now makes it possible to consider more conservative management . 
small cell carcinoma of the urinary tract . small cell carcinomas of the urinary tract are rare , but lethal . we report 3 cases of primary small cell carcinoma of the kidney , urinary bladder and prostate with light microscopic , immunohistochemical and electron microscopic findings . one patient with small cell carcinoma of the prostate died of disseminated disease 2 years after diagnosis and another patient with small cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder was free of tumour after 6 months . a partial remission was induced in the third patient with distant metastases of small cell carcinoma of the kidney by using chemotherapy protocols similar to the drug regimens for small cell carcinomas of the lung ; the patient survived for 5 months . immunohistochemical studies revealed the absence of argyrophilic immunostaining of tumour cells in all 3 cases , positive staining for keratin in 2 and staining for neuron-specific enolase in all 3 . in the third patient , reactivity for prostate-specific antigen was negative . dense-core , membrane-bound granules were identified in the cytoplasm of 2 patients . the paraneoplastic syndrome was not found , indicating that in considering the occurrence of ectopic hormones , specific cytoplasmic granules of origin need not be implicated . recognition of this distinct entity requires full consideration of morphological , immunohistological , ultrastructural and biological features . in order to define the origin of this tumour more clearly and to evaluate the effectiveness of chemotherapy , larger series of patients are needed . 
the effect of verapamil on the anti-tumour action of mitozantrone and doxorubicin against renal carcinoma cells in vitro . ten renal carcinomas were established in culture and their sensitivity to mitozantrone + / - verapamil , as measured by ( 75se ) selenomethionine incorporation , was studied . the 5 tumours with spread beyond the kidney were those in which sensitivity to mitozantrone was enhanced by verapamil . with 4 of the 10 tumours and 1 further carcinoma , similar experiments were performed using doxorubicin . this drug was more active , its anti-tumour action being related to concentration . verapamil was more effective in potentiation of doxorubicin and this action increased in proportion to the concentration of verapamil added . 
treatment of renal colic by prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors and avafortan ( analgesic antispasmodic ) . in a study of the pain-relieving effect of 3 drugs commonly used to treat acute renal colic in this hospital , intravenous indomethacin and intramuscular diclofenac ( prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors ) were compared with intravenous avafortan ( analgesic antispasmodic ) . as first-line analgesics , prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors , if given intravenously , offer an effective alternative to avafortan . of 145 patients studied , 32 required a second injection for complete relief of pain . administering a second dose of prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors resulted in equally significant pain relief rate even though the route was intramuscular . 
caffeine : does it affect your bladder ? patients with symptoms of frequency and urgency often complain that their symptoms are exacerbated by tea or coffee . a series of 20 women with confirmed detrusor instability and 10 asymptomatic women were given 200 mg of caffeine citrate and urodynamic studies were performed . in the group with detrusor instability there was a statistically significant increase in detrusor pressure on bladder filling following administration of caffeine , but no difference in volume at first contraction , height of contraction or bladder capacity . normal women had no abnormality on cystometry . 
experience with a simplified technique for the treatment of female stress urinary incontinence . over a 9-year period a simple procedure for the correction of stress urinary incontinence was performed in 86 consecutive patients , 31 of whom had failed a previous anti-incontinence procedure . success was achieved in 81 cases ( 94 % ) . of the 5 failures , 2 were successfully treated with a repeat procedure . operative time ranged from 14 to 49 min ( median 27 ) . the average hospital stay was 2 days . because of its simplicity and reliability , this technique is recommended for the surgical correction of female stress urinary incontinence . 
urinary continence in spinal injury patients following complete sacral posterior rhizotomy . complete sacral posterior rhizotomy was carried out in 15 spinal injury patients in conjunction with implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators . all patients were incontinent pre-operatively and had video-pressure cystometry before and at regular intervals after surgery . detrusor hyper-reflexia was totally abolished in all but 1 patient following rhizotomy and 87 % no longer require any form of incontinence appliance . deafferentation produced adverse changes in vesicourethral function and even when rhizotomy was complete , continence could not be guaranteed . the pre-operative state of the bladder neck and distal sphincter mechanism had an important bearing on future continence and those patients with a closed bladder neck and no previous sphincterotomy had the greatest chance of becoming continent after deafferentation . the majority of patients in this series are now fully continent , representing a transformation in their quality of life ; it is recommended , however , that to optimise the success of rhizotomy precise pre-operative evaluation and selection of patients are essential . 
ten cases of transitional cell carcinoma of bladder causing ureteric obstruction . a review was carried out on 10 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder ( ta lesions ) that were causing ureteric obstruction . evidence of upper tract obstruction did not necessarily indicate deep invasion . 
prostate tumour markers and differentiation grade in prostatic cancer . serum acid phosphatase activity , prostate specific phosphatase and prostate specific antigen were measured in 100 patients with prostatic cancer . the patients were divided according to the differentiation grade into 3 groups : g1 ( well ) , g2 ( moderately ) and g3 ( poorly differentiated ) carcinoma . bone metastases were identified by scintigraphy . among the 76 m0 patients the mean levels of all 3 markers were slightly higher in patients with moderately differentiated prostatic carcinoma . among the 24 m1 patients the primary tumour was either g2 ( 18 patients ) or g3 ( 6 patients ) ; none had g1 lesions . significantly higher serum acp and pap levels were found in patients with g2 tumours than in those with g3 lesions . it was concluded that the histological differentiation grade of prostatic carcinoma did affect serum levels of prostatic tumour markers ; the tendency towards higher levels in the g2 group was noticeable in both non-metastatic and metastatic cases despite the limited number of patients in the latter category . in clinical practice this information may be an important additional tool in staging prostatic cancer . 
treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia with phytosterols . in a randomised , double-blind study , the preparation curbicin , obtained from pumpkin seeds and dwarf palm plants ( cucurbita pepo l. and sabal serrulata ) , was compared with a placebo in the treatment of symptoms caused by prostatic hyperplasia ; 53 patients took part in the study , which was carried out over a 3-month period . urinary flow , micturition time , residual urine , frequency of micturition and a subjective assessment of the effect of treatment were all significantly improved in the treatment group . no untoward side effects were noted . 
acute epididymitis : why patient and consort must be investigated . in this prospective study of 49 patients under 35 years of age with clinically diagnosed epididymitis , detailed microbiological investigation identified an infective cause in 67 % . chlamydia trachomatis was the commonest agent , present in 25 patients , but in 12 of these detection was based solely on raised antibody titres ; 20 of the 28 female consorts screened were partners of men with chlamydial epididymitis and 80 % of them were also positive for this infection . isolating the micro-organism from 14 of 16 consorts indicated active infection despite the negative swabs from the men . if this important infection is to be adequately treated we recommend that all patients in this age group with epididymitis and their partners should be referred to a specialist unit with access to full chlamydia laboratory facilities . 
semen analysis in patients operated on for impalpable testes . semen analysis was performed on 48 men who had undergone orchiopexy , 40 for unilateral impalpable testes and 8 for bilateral impalpable testes . patients with unilateral impalpable testes had varying sperm analysis ; 18 ( 86 % ) of the 23 patients with unilateral impalpable canalicular testes had normal sperm analysis . all patients with bilateral impalpable testes were azoospermic . the subsequent quality of the semen is dependent upon the original anatomical positions of the undescended testes . 
epidermoid cyst ( monodermal teratoma ) of the testis . we report 14 patients with epidermoid cyst of the testis ( monodermal teratoma ) . in 7 patients ( 5 treated within the last 5 years ) the mass was excised and adjacent testicular tissue was biopsied . seven patients underwent radical inguinal orchiectomy . carcinoma in situ was not detected in any testicular tissue examined . there was no evidence of tumour recurrence in any patient after a mean follow-up of 10 years . ultrasonographic appearance was not specific for a diagnosis of epidermoid cyst and exploratory surgery was required in all cases . excision of the tumour and biopsy of adjacent testicular tissue to determine the presence or absence of carcinoma in situ is adequate treatment for this rare testicular neoplasm . 
comparison of urethral reaction to full silicone , hydrogen-coated and siliconised latex catheters . indwelling urinary catheter may induce an inflammatory reaction or even stricture of the urethra . catheter encrustation and urinary infection are other disadvantages associated with long-term catheterisation . in the present study , 77 male patients were catheterised randomly as part of their normal treatment with 1 of 3 different types of catheter : 22 siliconised latex , 28 hydrogel-coated latex and 27 full silicone catheters . the mean duration of catheterisation was 2.2 days . the urethral inflammatory reaction was assessed from cytological urethral swab specimens . catheter encrustation was studied using scanning electron microscopic ( sem ) analysis . the full silicone catheters induced the mildest degree of inflammation in the urethra , the percentage mean of inflammatory cells in smears being 20 % . in both latex catheter groups the value was 36 % . neither the age of the patients nor the duration of catheterisation had any effect on the inflammatory reaction , which was more marked in patients with haemodynamic abnormalities . the hydrogel coating effectively prevented encrustation , while siliconised latex catheters were the least resistant to encrustation . the inflammatory reaction was variable in all patients . the use of urethral catheters should be restricted and suprapubic tubes should be used instead , particularly in patients with shock-like circulatory changes . by developing the biocompatibility and physical properties of urinary catheters , more compatible devices may be manufactured . 
the cancer experience in the framingham heart study cohort . the almost 40-year records of the framingham heart study ( fhs ) cohort were reviewed to establish the cancer experience of this noninstitutionalized group of white subjects . diagnoses were confirmed from pathology and laboratory reports and clinical notes . age-specific incidence rates were compared with connecticut surveillance , epidemiology , and end results ( seer ) data . among the 5209 subjects , 1201 malignancies were confirmed . median age at diagnosis was 69 for men and 65 for women . lung , prostate , skin , and colon accounted for more than half of men 's cancers ; breast , colon , and skin made up half of the women 's . fhs and connecticut seer rates matched closely , with the same primary tumor sites appearing commonly in both groups . thus , the fhs cohort should provide a fair database for analysis of risk factors in cancer incidence , as it has done in cardiovascular diseases . 
two-drug therapy in patients with metastatic germ cell tumors . eighty-two patients with metastatic germ cell tumors ( gct ) treated with two-drug therapy consisting of etoposide and cisplatin were evaluated for late relapse . good-risk gct was defined using memorial sloan-kettering cancer center ( mskcc ) criteria . etoposide was given at 100 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5 and cisplatin was given at 20 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5 ; therapy was recycled at 21 days with delays up to 7 days for a leukocyte count of less than 3000/microliters or a platelet count of less than 100,000 / microliters . drug doses were not attenuated for myelosuppression . seventy-six of 82 evaluable patients achieved a complete response ( cr ) . seventy-two patients had a cr to chemotherapy alone . forty-six ( 56 % ) patients had excision of residual abnormalities : 11 had teratoma in the resected specimen , 31 had necrotic debris or fibrosis , and 4 had a cr after chemotherapy plus complete excision of residual viable gct . six patients had an incomplete response to chemotherapy ; one of these patients had unresectable mature teratoma and remains progression-free . the median etoposide dose ( + / - standard deviation [ sd ] ) was 500 mg/m2/course ( + / - 35 mg/m2 ) and the median cisplatin dose ( + / - sd ) was 100 mg/m2/course ( + / - 6 mg/m2 ) . nine patients experienced a relapse at 6 to 17.5 months ; two patients with nonseminomatous gct were salvaged by chemotherapy and one patient with seminoma was salvaged by chemotherapy and radiation therapy . the three patients who were salvaged by additional therapy are disease-free at 59 to 63 months . seventy-one patients ( 87 % ) remain disease-free with a median follow-up time of 63 months ( range , 33 to 92 months ) . no relapses have occurred beyond 17.5 months . etoposide and cisplatin therapy at these doses and schedule results in durable cr without late relapse . 
t-cell lymphoma and mature nephroblastoma after synchronous bilateral wilms ' tumor . a 15-year-old boy had lymphoblastic lymphoma of the left tonsil after being treated for bilateral wilms ' tumor ( bwt ) at 7 months of age . in addition , a fully differentiated wilms ' tumor was diagnosed in the remaining , partially nephrectomized left kidney . development of second malignancies in patients with a history of bwt , as compared with those with unilateral wilms ' tumor , is discussed . a possible explanation for the concurrently diagnosed , fully differentiated wilms ' tumor in the remaining left kidney is suggested . 
hepatocellular carcinoma as second malignant neoplasms in successfully treated wilms ' tumor patients . a national wilms ' tumor study report . although rare , second malignant neoplasms ( smn ) after treatment for wilms ' tumor are deadly . a recent national wilms ' tumor study ( nwts ) report identified 15 patients with second malignancies discovered over 14,381 person-years of observation . this report described four patients with secondary hepatocellular carcinoma in greater detail . these patients were strikingly similar in that all had right-sided tumors and each one had received right upper-quadrant irradiation . all patients died shortly after diagnosis of the smn . 
prostate-specific antigen and external beam radiation therapy in prostate cancer . this study of 133 patients with localized prostate cancer ( stages a2 to c ) , treated by external beam radiation therapy ( xrt ) , was undertaken for two reasons : ( 1 ) to investigate the usefulness of pretreatment serum prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) levels in evaluating patients before xrt ; and ( 2 ) to investigate post-xrt changes in psa values and their likely clinical significance . it was found that pretreatment psa values in patients with localized disease exhibit wide patient to patient variability with a greater than 100-fold difference between the lowest and highest values . although mean psa values were significantly higher in stage c disease ( 51 patients ; mean psa , 17.3 ng/ml ) than in stage a2 disease ( 31 patients ; mean psa , 9.0 ng/ml ) , stage b1 disease ( 23 patients ; mean psa , 9.1 ng/ml ) , or stage b2 disease ( 28 patients ; mean psa , 10.6 ng/ml ) , individual values were of virtually no help in assigning individual patients to a clinical stage . psa levels did not correlate with grade . after xrt , psa values fell significantly and dramatically in virtually all patients ( 98 % ) by 3 months follow-up . mean psa fell from 12.5 to 2.6 ng/ml , and median psa fell from 6.6 to 1.9 ng/ml . in most patients , psa continued to fall up to 12 months after xrt and then stabilized at 21 months . although psa values fell dramatically after xrt , psa was detectable in the serum of all patients . psa values tended to transiently and mildly elevate during xrt . in a small proportion of patients , rising psa values were observed after 6 months . the full significance of this requires further follow-up , of four such patients , one has relapsed . psa is a more sensitive marker of prostatic radiation than prostatic acid phosphatase . 
black tobacco , mate , and bladder cancer . a case-control study from uruguay . a case-control study of bladder cancer involving interviews with 111 incident cases and 222 controls was carried out in montevideo , uruguay . the analysis was conducted separately for each sex . point estimates of relative risk associated with smoking variables , ingestion of infusions of the herb ilex paraguariensis ( mate ) , and selected dietary items were obtained by stratified and logistic regression analysis . among men , smokers of black tobacco showed a relative risk ( rr ) 2.7 higher than blond tobacco smokers and mate exposure showed a significant dose-response , after adjustment for age , residence , social class , hospital , type of tobacco , smoking intensity , smoking duration , and vegetable consumption , with a seven-fold increase in risk for heavy consumers . joint exposure to type of tobacco and mate consumption showed a multiplicative effect . women showed a similar increase in risk with mate consumption . the results suggest that the high mortality rates of bladder cancer observed in uruguay could be explained by the combined effect of black tobacco smoking and mate ingestion . 
recurrent renal cell carcinoma arising in wilms ' tumor . a 19-month-old black girl had a radical nephrectomy for a wilms ' tumor that contained areas of epithelium indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma . she was treated with chemotherapy but subsequently had pulmonary metastases develop and massive abdominal recurrence . the recurrent tumor was histologically renal cell carcinoma with no identifiable wilms ' tumor elements . the child died with recurrent and metastatic tumor 13 months after nephrectomy . pathologic , immunoperoxidase , and flow cytometric studies of this unusual case are presented . 
comparative epidemiology of cancer between the united states and japan . a second look . vital statistics were examined for the years 1955 through 1985 for japanese natives and united states whites to elucidate changes in cancer mortality and related antecedent patterns of life-style in these two populations . results show that lung cancer rates are rapidly accelerating among japanese males as a consequence of their prior history of heavy cigarette smoking . oropharyngeal cancer rates are also rising in japan paralleling increases in alcohol and tobacco utilization . as the japanese life-style and diet continue to become more " westernized , " the rates of malignancies of the breast , ovary , corpus uteri , prostate , pancreas , and colon also continue to rise . nevertheless , the mortality patterns of certain malignancies , viz. , laryngeal , esophageal , and urinary bladder cancer , are discrepant with their established risk factor associations , suggesting the existence of other differences in risk factor exposure between the two countries . epidemiologists and health educators need to develop innovative international programs of investigation and health promotion with preventive impact on common malignancies associated with risk factors of life-style . 
extrarenal production of calcitriol in normal and uremic humans . we have previously reported low serum levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 ] and increased 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 production after the administration of 25-hydryoxyvitamin d ( 25ohd ) to anephric humans . since normal alveolar macrophages are known to synthesize 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 when stimulated with gamma-interferon or lipopolysaccharide , we determined whether macrophages derived from peripheral blood monocytes could be an extrarenal source of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 . our results demonstrated that macrophages from normal individuals synthesize 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 . the apparent km for 25ohd3 was 6.6 + / - 0.5 nm and the maximum velocity was 47.4 + / - 13.7 fmol 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3/h . microgram dna . the activity of this enzyme was reduced 37.2 + / - 3.1 % by physiological concentrations ( 96 pmol/l ) of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 in the incubation medium . normal macrophages further hydroxylated 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 to more polar metabolites , and this catabolic activity was significantly enhanced by physiological concentrations of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 . in chronic renal failure , peripheral macrophages exhibited an enhanced 1 alpha-hydroxylase activity ( 8.2 + / - 0.8 vs. 4.2 + / - 0.5 fmol 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3/microgram dna.h in controls ) and a decreased capacity to degrade 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 . exogenous 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 , in physiological concentrations , reduced 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 synthesis to a degree ( 23.6 + / - 8.5 % ) comparable to that observed in normal cells . 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 production by macrophages did not correlate with the severity of hyperparathyroidism . moreover , human pth - ( 1-34 ) in supraphysiological concentrations ( 20,000 and 100,000 ng/l ) did not stimulate the 1 alpha-hydroxylase activity of macrophages from either normal or uremic subjects . these results demonstrate that 1 ) normal peripheral macrophages metabolize 25ohd3 and 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 ; 2 ) macrophages in uremia display higher rates of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 synthesis and lower rates of catabolism than normal macrophages ; and 3 ) 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 deficiency , but not hyperparathyroidism , may play a role in the stimulation of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 production by macrophages in chronic renal failure . 
kidney function and cardiovascular risk factors in non-insulin-dependent diabetics ( niddm ) with microalbuminuria . microalbuminuria in non-insulin-dependent diabetes ( niddm ) is a strong predictor of increased mortality . the major causes of death are cardiovascular , whereas end-stage renal failure is of low frequency . to define kidney function and the presence of some assumed cardiovascular risk factors , we compared a group of 19 microalbuminuric niddm patients ( m ) , of mean age ( + / - sd ) 65 + / - 4 years , and known duration of diabetes 8 + / - 7 years , with 19 randomly selected matched normoalbuminuric patients ( n ) . seven microalbuminuric patients ( p ) were also studied . glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) did not differ between n and m , whereas kidney volume was increased in m ( 260.3 + / - 54.1 ml 1.73 m-2 ) compared to n ( 220.4 + / - 44.8 ml 1.73 m-2 ; p = 0.018 ) . the frequency of cardiac disease increased with increasing albuminuria . glycaemic control did not differ between the groups , but fasting plasma c-peptide levels increased from 2.8 + / - 1.1 micrograms l-1 in n , to 3.7 + / - 1.7 micrograms l-1 in m ( p = 0.08 ) , and to 4.2 + / - 1.9 micrograms l-1 ( p = 0.03 ) in p. the lipoprotein profile showed no significant differences , although the ldlcholesterol/hdlcholesterol ( ldl-c/hdl-c ) ratio tended to rise . a significant correlation was found between c-peptide and ldl-c/hdl-c ( r = 0.5 ; p less than 10 ( -3 ] . in conclusion , gfr was not increased , and did not differ between n and m , whereas kidney volume was enhanced in m. several assumed cardiovascular risk factors showed values of m intermediate between those of n and p. 
progression of renal insufficiency in analgesic nephropathy : impact of continuous drug abuse . twenty-three patients with analgesic nephropathy and apparent cessation of drug abuse were tested for blood acetaminophen and salicylate on the occasion of routine renal control examinations . in 12 patients ( mean creatinine level 2.74 + / - 1.09 mg/dl ) no deterioration of renal function was noted within a 1-year observation period ( group 1 ) . in 11 patients a significant progression of renal insufficiency was observed ( mean creatinine level rose from 3.86 + / - 1.06 to 6.40 + / - 3.18 mg/dl within the same observation period ; group 2 ) . blood tests for acetaminophen and salicylate were positive in 2 patients of group 1 and in 9 patients of group 2 ( chi 2 = 7.326 ) , p less than 0.01 ) . our data emphasize the importance of a continuous analgesic abuse hidden from the medical staff with regard to the progression of renal insufficiency in analgesic nephropathy . 
functional status and quality of life : predictors of early mortality among patients entering treatment for end stage renal disease . we investigated the association between functional status and quality of life in newly-entered dialysis patients and the subsequent risk of mortality . we enrolled the patients from 37 dialysis facilities in two southeastern states ( n = 294 ) . functional status was assessed by the karnofsky performance scale ( kps ) and quality of life by the spitzer quality of life index ( sqli ) . during a mean ( se ) follow-up of 479.6 ( 109.4 ) days 49 patients ( 16.4 % ) of the cohort died . the mean kps score ( se ) for survivors was 7.31 ( 0.11 ) and for non-survivors was 5.89 ( 0.26 ) , p less than 0.0001 . the mean sqli score ( se ) for survivors was 6.74 ( 0.15 ) and non-survivors was 4.95 ( 0.28 ) , p less than 0.0001 . strong gradients of the risk of mortality were found for both measurements . after controlling for other covariates including age , race , sex , primary cause of renal failure and the presence of comorbidity , both the kps and sqli scores were independently correlated with risk of mortality . we conclude that functional status and quality of life are strong independent risk factors for subsequent mortality in new dialysis patients . these are easily measured indicators which may serve to predict subsequent risk of mortality or adjust case-mix estimates for comparisons between dialysis populations . 
noninvasive measurement of renal blood flow with technetium-99m-dtpa in the evaluation of patients with suspected renovascular hypertension if a hypertensive patient with renal artery stenosis ( ras ) is to benefit from percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty ( ptra ) in terms of a sustained improvement in blood pressure control , one may postulate a demonstrable reduction in renal blood flow ( rbf ) to that kidney , reversible by ptra . in a population of 32 hypertensive patients , ras was present in 23 of 62 kidneys . eleven of the 32 patients underwent renal revascularization , of whom 6 showed improvement in blood pressure control at 6 mo , i.e. , had renovascular hypertension ( rvh ) . there was no correlation between rbf and angiographic appearances of the renal artery . furthermore , there was no significant difference between rbf in the stenosed kidneys of the patients with rvh compared with the stenosed kidneys of patients without rvh . individual kidney rbf was 22 % ( s.d. 11 ) higher 1-3 wk after ptra but the increase did not correlate with clinical outcome . angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibition increased rbf by 25 % ( s.d. 25 ) of baseline flow before ptra but the increase did not correlate with clinical outcome . measurement of rbf is of limited value for the prediction of the long-term blood pressure response following ptra . 
ureteric catheterization in the diagnosis of pyelonephritis -- an experimental evaluation . experimental models of renal infections have been used to determine the accuracy with which the cellular and microbiologic components of ureteric and voided urine reflected the pathologic status of the kidney in pyelonephritis . in acute pyelonephritis , the composition of the ureteric urine reflected the pathologic status of the kidney , although in a few cases ureteric samples were either sterile or cell free . animals with chronic pyelonephritis in which the lesions were either infected or sterile commonly had sterile ureteric urine . pyuria , however , was demonstrable in both these situations . in subclinical pyelonephritis , ureteric samples from infected kidneys were variably culture positive , although pyuria was a common observation . discriminate function analysis based on actual renal status and ureteric data gave an overall correct classification rate of 67 % and demonstrated at least 80 % agreement in four of the five classification groups . 
effects of probucol on renal function in rats with bilateral ureteral obstruction . to ascertain the potential role of reactive oxygen metabolites in the pathophysiology of obstructive uropathy , we examined the effect of probucol , an antioxidant agent , on renal function in normal rats and rats with unilateral release of bilateral ureteral obstruction ( buo ) of 24 hours duration . rats were fed either a standard diet or a standard diet containing one percent probucol for two weeks prior to study . probucol lowered serum cholesterol in both normal and buo rats . probucol did not significantly affect renal function in normal rats . buo rats given probucol had greater inulin and pah clearances at three to five hours and three days following release of buo than rats with buo not given probucol . kidneys from obstructed rats had higher levels of malondialdehyde , an index of lipid peroxidation , a greater number of leukocytes in the cortex , decreased levels of reduced glutathione and increased levels of oxidized glutathione . renal cortex from obstructed rats treated with probucol had significantly higher levels of reduced glutathione than kidneys of obstructed rats not given probucol . a decrease in cholesterol , using another lipid-lowering agent , lovastatin , did not modify renal function in rats with buo . the data can be interpreted to indicate a role for reactive oxygen species in the pathophysiology of obstructive nephropathy . the improved renal function seen in probucol-treated rats with buo may be due to an effect of this agent in affecting accumulation of reactive oxygen metabolites and/or decreasing the number of leukocytes infiltrating the renal cortex . 
three-dimensional morphometric analysis of segmental glomerulosclerosis in the rat . in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome , and in experimental models of nephrosis , changes of visceral epithelial cells involve the entire glomerular population while segmental sclerotic changes are reported to affect only a certain number of glomeruli . because conventional determination of the percentage of glomeruli affected by sclerotic lesions is usually based on the examination of randomly selected sections , we wondered whether glomeruli appearing normal in a given section could be affected by sclerosis in other regions of the capillary tuft ( ct ) . to assess the real incidence and the spatial extension of sclerotic changes at the level of single glomerulus , we used serial-section morphological analysis to measure the volume of the glomerulus and that of sclerosis lesions . in glomeruli from control rats and in glomeruli from adriamycin ( adr ) treated rats surface area of bowman 's capsule ( bc ) , ct and sclerotic regions were measured using stereology techniques in all the consecutive sections containing each individual glomerulus , and corresponding volumes were then calculated . mean volume of bc and ct were not significantly different between control and adr rats ( 0.71 + / - 0.03 and 0.53 + / - 0.03 vs. 0.76 + / - 0.04 and 0.53 + / - 0.02 microns 3 x 10 ( -6 ) , respectively ) . the distribution of glomerular volume parameters in the adr rats were more spread out than in control animals , indicating that some glomeruli became smaller while other became larger . no sclerotic changes were found in control rats , while in the three adr rats 94 , 90 and 92 % of glomeruli , respectively , were affected by sclerotic lesions . 
albuterol and insulin for treatment of hyperkalemia in hemodialysis patients . we evaluated in maintenance hemodialysis patients the potassium lowering effects of intravenous insulin with glucose , nebulized albuterol , and a regimen combining both modalities . there was a similar decrease in plasma potassium following either insulin with glucose ( 0.65 + / - 0.09 mmol/liter ) or albuterol ( 0.66 + / - 0.12 mmol/liter ) , and a substantially greater fall with the combined regimen ( 1.21 + / - 0.19 mmol/liter , p less than 0.02 vs. either drug alone ) . baseline plasma glucose concentrations were similar ( about 4.8 mmol/liter ) prior to all three treatments . following insulin with glucose , plasma glucose increased transiently . but then fell to 2.8 + / - 0.3 mmol/liter at one hour , with concentrations below 3 mmol/liter in 9 of 12 patients . none of the patients had symptoms of hypoglycemia . plasma glucose increased to 6.8 + / - 0.5 mmol/liter with albuterol . after the combined drug regimen plasma glucose rose transiently and was back to baseline ( 4.7 + / - 0.7 mmol/liter ) at one hour . treatment with insulin or albuterol produced trivial increases in heart rate , whereas the combined drug regimen was associated with a significant rise ( 15.1 + / - 6.0 min-1 ) . these observations suggest that albuterol and insulin with glucose are equally efficacious in lowering plasma potassium in uremic patients , and that the hypokalemic effects of the two drugs is additive . the hypoglycemic effect of insulin is attenuated by coadministration albuterol . combined therapy with insulin , glucose and albuterol is efficacious and safe for the acute treatment of hyperkalemia in hemodialysis patients . 
fosinopril prevents hyperfiltration and decreases proteinuria in post-transplant hypertensives . hypertension and renal mass reduction induce glomerular hypertension ( gh ) , hyperfiltration ( hf ) and renal injury . gh may contribute to allograft loss in post-transplant hypertensive patients ( pt x ht ) . hf and gh may be evaluated by renal response to acute protein intake ( api ) . since ace inhibition may prevent gh , the effects of fosinopril ( fos ) were evaluated in 10 pt x ht on azathioprine and prednisone . patients received 5 to 40 mg/day of fos during 12 months . baseline map ( 111.1 + / - 2.9 mm hg ) was significantly reduced by 10 to 12 mm hg , rising to 114.7 + / - 2.7 mm hg after fos was administered . gfr ( 63.7 + / - 5.9 ml/min ) decreased after 4 ( 48.1 + / - 4.6 , p less than 0.05 ) and 12 months ( 50.7 + / - 4.6 , p less than 0.05 ) , rising to 59.4 + / - 5.6 after fos was given . there was no gfr response to api before and after one month of fos , however , a clear response became apparent at 4 ( + 27 % p less than 0.05 ) , and 12 months ( + 18 % , p less than 0.05 ) , disappearing after fos discontinuation . proteinuria ( 918.8 + / - 710.6 mg/d ) decreased after 4 ( 72.3 + / - 21.6 mg/d , p less than 0.05 ) and 12 months , rising to 297.8 + / - 172.3 mg/day after therapy . gfr response to api in 22 controls and 17 uninephrectomized donors was 13 and 11 % , respectively . lack of response to api in pt x ht suggests hf and gh . reduction of gfr , restoration of response to api and reduction of proteinuria , indicate that ace inhibition with fosinopril ameliorates hf and gh . this effect may be beneficial in preventing hemodynamic-mediated allograft injury . 
l-lactate high-efficiency hemodialysis : hemodynamics , blood gas changes , potassium/phosphorus , and symptoms . hemodynamic changes were measured during high-efficiency hemodialysis ( hehd ) using three dialysis solutions : l-lactate ( 46 mm ) , bicarbonate ( 35 mm + 4 mm acetate ) , and acetate ( 39 mm ) . cardiac output was determined by changes in thoracic electrical bioimpedance . although there appeared to be subtle differences in hemodynamic response to l-lactate versus bicarbonate , the blood pressure , cardiac output , and total peripheral resistance were affected less with either of these solutions than with acetate . in particular , neither l-lactate nor bicarbonate hehd were associated with a change in cardiac output , whereas with acetate hehd a marked ( 22 % ) increase in cardiac output was seen concurrently with a moderate fall in blood pressure and tpr . both acetate and l-lactate hehd were associated with hypoxemia , whereas with bicarbonate hehd the po2 did not change . with l-lactate hehd , correction of ph and plasma hco3 concentrations was delayed but these values were not significantly different from those obtained with bicarbonate hehd by one hour after dialysis . potassium removal was comparable with the three dialysis solutions . phosphorus removal with l-lactate tended to be slightly less than with bicarbonate , but not less than with acetate . our results suggest that l-lactate ( 46 mm ) dialysis solution may be a suitable alternative to acetate for hehd , being associated with a hemodynamic profile that is similar to that of bicarbonate and better than that of acetate . our results further suggest that the hypoxemia associated with the use of acetate dialysis solution is not intrinsic to acetate , but is due either to a low dialysis solution pco2 level or to accelerated consumption of oxygen during substrate metabolism . 
multicenter trial of l-carnitine in maintenance hemodialysis patients . i. carnitine concentrations and lipid effects . previous studies have reported conflicting results of carnitine supplementation on plasma lipids in patients with chronic renal failure . we therefore performed a four center , double-blind placebo controlled trial to evaluate the effects of post-hemodialysis intravenous injection of l-carnitine in esrd patients on maintenance hemodialysis . thirty-eight patients received up to six months of l-carnitine infusions ( 20 mg/kg ) post-dialysis and 44 patients received placebo infusions . in both groups of patients , baseline pre-dialysis plasma and red blood cell total carnitine levels were normal , but pre-dialysis plasma-free carnitine concentrations and free/total ratios were subnormal , and plasma acyl levels were elevated . post-dialysis plasma free and total carnitine concentrations were also subnormal . plasma and red blood cell total carnitine levels rose eightfold in carnitine recipients , but were unchanged from baseline in those receiving placebo . there were no significant changes observed in plasma triglycerides , hdl-cholesterol or other lipoprotein parameters in either the carnitine or placebo treated groups . we conclude that carnitine metabolism is altered in uremia . furthermore , in a randomly-selected hemodialysis population , l-carnitine injection at the dose of 20 mg/kg results in significant increases in blood ( and perhaps tissue ) carnitine levels , but this is not associated with any major effects on lipid profiles . 
multicenter trial of l-carnitine in maintenance hemodialysis patients . ii . clinical and biochemical effects . since carnitine deficiency has been reported in some patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis , we studied the effects of intravenous infusion of l-carnitine or placebo at the end of each dialysis treatment . the trial , which lasted seven months ( one month baseline , 6 months treatment ) was multicenter , double blind , placebo controlled , and randomized . eighty-two long-term hemodialysis patients , who were given either carnitine ( n = 38 ) or placebo ( n = 44 ) , completed this study . in each group , clinical and biochemical parameters during treatment were compared with baseline values . intra-dialytic hypotension and muscle cramps were reduced only in the carnitine treated group , while improvement in post-dialysis asthenia was noticed in both carnitine and placebo groups . maximal oxygen consumption , measured during a progressive work exercise test , improved significantly in the carnitine group ( 111 + / - 50 ml/min . p less than 0.03 ) and was unchanged in the placebo group . l-carnitine treatment was associated with a significant drop in pre-dialysis concentrations of serum urea nitrogen , creatinine and phosphorus ( means + / - sem , 101 + / - 4.5 to 84 + / - 3.9 , 16.7 + / - 0.67 to 14.7 + / - 0.64 , and 6.4 + / - 0.3 to 5.5 + / - 0.4 mg/dl , respectively , p less than 0.004 ) . no significant changes in any of these variables were noticed in the placebo group . mid-arm circumference and triceps skinfold thickness were measured in 11 carnitine and 13 placebo treated patients . calculated mid-arm muscle area increased in the carnitine patients ( 41.37 + / - 2.68 to 45.6 + / - 2.82 cm2 , p = 0.05 ) and remained unchanged in the placebo patients . 
effects of recombinant human erythropoietin on cerebral and cutaneous blood flow and on blood coagulability . seizures , hypertensive encephalopathy , transient ischemic attacks , and thrombosis of hemodialysis accesses occurred in early clinical trials with recombinant human erythropoietin . to determine if these events may be caused by the increased hematocrit value or some direct effect of the recombinant human hormone , 10 transfusion-dependent hemodialysis patients were divided into two groups of five according to their serum ferritin concentration : group a. less than 800 microgram/liter , and group b. greater than 800 micrograms/liter . after a month of placebo administration , recombinant human erythropoietin was given ( 150 u/kg intravenously thrice weekly ) for four months and then stopped for one month . hematocrit values were maintained at 0.33 + / - 0.02 ( mean + / - sd ) by dose adjustment in group a and at 0.26 + / - 0.02 by thrice weekly phlebotomies in group b , who received a constant dose of erythropoietin . viscosity increased from subnormal to normal in group a ( p less than 0.02 ) and cerebral blood flow decreased from above normal to normal ( p less than 0.02 ) . in group b minor , statistically insignificant , changes in viscosity and reciprocal changes in cerebral blood flow also occurred . there was no change in either group in transcutaneous oxygen tension . bleeding time decreased toward normal in both groups during recombinant human erythropoietin administration but the changes did not reach statistical significance . fibrinogen levels were increased in all patients but remained unchanged . no other significant coagulation-related changes were observed . recombinant erythropoietin in the dosage and schedule of administration described in this study did not lead directly or indirectly to changes likely to precipitate seizures or intravascular thrombosis . 
soft tissue calcification in pediatric patients with end-stage renal disease . soft tissue calcification is a recognized complication of uremia in adult patients and has been implicated as a cause of ischemic necrosis , cardiac arrhythmias , and respiratory failure . however , soft tissue calcification has been regarded as rare in pediatric renal patients . following a sudden death due to pulmonary calcinosis in an adolescent after renal transplantation , we retrospectively reviewed clinical , biochemical and autopsy data of 120 patients with uremia , on dialysis , or following renal transplantation cared for at childrens hospital of los angeles from 1960 to 1983 . soft tissue calcification was found in 72 of 120 patients ( 60 percent ) . forty-three patients ( 36 percent ) had systemic calcinosis ( group a ) : the most frequent sites of mineral deposition were blood vessels , lung , kidney , myocardium , coronary artery , central nervous system , and gastric mucosa . vascular calcification was uniformly accompanied by deposits in other organs . twenty-nine patients had small amounts of focal calcification ( group b ) and 48 patients had no soft tissue calcification ( group c ) . by multiple logistic regression analysis , the use of vitamin d or its analogues , the form of vitamin d medication prescribed , the peak calcium x phosphorus product , the age at onset of renal failure , and male sex were jointly associated with calcinosis ( group a ) . vitamin d therapy showed the strongest independent association with calcinosis and the probability of calcinosis was greater in patients receiving calcitriol when compared with dihydrotachysterol and vitamin d2 or d3 . the duration of renal failure , peak serum calcium , serum calcium at death , serum phosphorus at death , and primary renal diagnosis , were not statistically associated with calcinosis . 
influence of calcium acetate or calcium citrate on intestinal aluminum absorption . the risk of aluminum ( al ) accumulation in patients with chronic renal failure has led to use of non-al phosphate binders . frequently , al and non-al phosphate binders are co-administered . unfortunately , calcium citrate ( ca citr ) , when given with al-gel , markedly enhances al absorption . to determine whether calcium acetate ( ca acetate ) also augments al absorption , 10 normal volunteers were each given orally , three-day courses of the following drug combinations dosed four times daily : 1 ) aluminum hydroxide gel ( al [ oh ] 3 ) ( 5 ml ) alone ; 2 ) al [ oh ] 3 ( 5 ml ) plus ca acetate ( 1330 mg ) ; 3 ) al [ oh ] 3 ( 5 ml ) plus ca citr ( 950 mg ) . a nine day wash-out occurred between each course . al levels were measured using flameless atomic absorption spectrophotometry . daily urine al excretion was measured during a two-day baseline before each course and during each three-day drug course . plasma al was obtained during each baseline and drug course . mean 24-hour al excretion ( micrograms/g creatinine/day ) at baseline versus treatment for each combination was : 1 ) 5.9 + / - 3.2 versus 42.0 + / - 40.7 ( mean + / - sd ) ; 2 ) 5.7 + / - 3.0 versus 40.3 + / - 28.6 : 3 ) 6.3 + / - 3.4 versus 175.8 + / - 103.3 . al excretion was significantly greater with combination 3 than with either 1 or 2 ( p less than 0.05 ) . the difference between 1 and 2 was not significant . plasma al ( micrograms/liter ) at baseline versus treatment for each combination was : 1 ) 5.3 + / - 4.2 versus 8.1 + / - 2.5 ( mean + / - sd ) ; 2 ) 3.1 + / - 2.2 versus 7.3 + / - 2.9 ; 3 ) 3.0 + / - 2.3 versus 12.0 + / - 6.1 . 
anaphylactoid reactions during hemodialysis on an69 membranes in patients receiving ace inhibitors . we report five life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions occurring within the very first minutes of hemodialysis on polyacrylonitrile ( an69 ) capillary dialyzers in three patients receiving ace inhibitors . such reactions were not observed either in patients treated with ace inhibitors but dialyzed on other membranes ( n = 9 ) , nor in patients on an69 who did not receive ace inhibitors ( n = 19 ) . these anaphylactoid reactions could be due to bradykinin accumulation , as a result of both increased synthesis -- by interaction of blood with the an69 polymer -- and catabolism blockade by ace inhibitors . 
two prostate carcinoma cell lines demonstrate abnormalities in tumor suppressor genes . two prostate carcinoma cell lines , du-145 and pc-3 , were examined for abnormalities in the retinoblastoma ( rb ) and the p53 putative tumor suppressor genes . we found an abnormal rb gene product in du-145 using western blot analysis . polymerase chain reaction amplification followed by direct dna sequencing demonstrated a base substitution mutation that generates a stop codon in exon 21 . on northern , southern , and western blot analysis , the p53 gene and its product appear to be normal in du-145 . pc-3 , however , failed to demonstrate expression of either the p53 transcript on northern blot analysis or the p53 protein on western blot analysis , while the rb gene products appeared to be normal on both northern and western blot analysis . this work extends the correlation between abnormal expression of putative tumor suppressor genes and human malignancies . 
renal oncocytoma : long-term follow-up and flow cytometric dna analysis . we report a retrospective study on the clinicopathologic features and flow cytometric dna analysis of ten renal oncocytomas compared with a control group of ten randomly selected renal cell carcinomas . among the oncocytoma patients , no recurrences or metastases were noted over an average follow-up of 6.7 years ( range = 6 months to 16 years ) . reproducible , high-quality dna histograms were obtained on the paraffin-embedded specimens by using our modified flow cytometric procedure . one aneuploid ( 10 % ) and two hyperdiploid tumors ( 20 % ) were found in the oncocytoma group . there was no correlation between these abnormal dna histographic patterns and survival or tumor stages . on the contrary , a good correlation was found between tumor grades and dna ploidy in the controls . we conclude that renal oncocytoma is a clinically benign tumor , yet it may exhibit varying degrees of flow cytometric dna abnormalities , which have no predictive value on survival and probably reflect the characteristics of oncocytes rather than its malignant potential . 
treatable complications in undiagnosed cases of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease . in a study to determine the proportion of unrecognised cases and the prevalence of treatable complications of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease ( adpkd ) , 46 probands were identified through genetics and renal clinics in melbourne , australia . 321 offspring of the probands who were older than 15 years and had not been previously diagnosed as having adpkd were identified . 68 ( 21 % ) had ultrasound evidence of polycystic kidney disease . of this previously undiagnosed group , 25 ( 37 % ) had one or more treatable complications at the time of diagnosis . the complications included 20 cases of hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure 95 mm hg or above ) , 7 cases of impaired renal function ( serum creatinine 0.12 mmol/l or above ) , and 4 cases of bacterial urinary tract infection . 8 people had several complications . adpkd has an important treatable component which is not being treated in a substantial proportion of affected individuals , because the disease is not being diagnosed despite the presence of a positive family history . 
serological identification of escherichia coli o157 : h7 infection in haemolytic uraemic syndrome . to test the value of serological tests as an adjunct to bacteriological methods and toxin testing in haemolytic uraemic syndrome ( hus ) , 60 patients with the disorder were examined for evidence of faecal escherichia coli producing verocytotoxin ( vtec ) , particularly of serogroup o157 . they were also tested for serum antibodies reacting with the lipopolysaccharide of e coli o157 by means of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) and immunoblotting ; for faecal vtec by means of dna probes hybridising with the genes encoding verocytotoxins vt1 and vt2 ; and for " free " faecal vt . strains of e coli serotype o157 : h7 were isolated from 9 patients , and faecal vt2 was detected in 3 of them . strains of e coli of serotypes 05 : h - , o55 : h10 , o105ac : h18 , and o163 : h19 were isolated from 4 patients , but faecal vt was not detected . faecal vt2 was present in 1 patient from whom vtec were not isolated . antibodies to the lipopolysaccharide of e coli o157 were detected in serum samples from 44 patients . the 9 patients with faecal o157 : h7 all had high titres of these antibodies , but serum samples from 16 healthy control children were negative . serological testing of patients with hus for antibodies to the lipopolysaccharide of e coli o157 provides evidence of infection with e coli o157 when faecal bacteria or vt can not be detected . 
nonhomologous chromatid exchange in hereditary and sporadic renal cell carcinomas . for the development of renal cell carcinomas , it has been suggested that a germ-line or somatic mutation occurs on one of the homologous chromosomes 3p , and subsequently the other 3p segment is lost . we have examined the karyotype and/or the allelic combination on chromosomes 3 and 5 by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis in normal kidney and tumor samples from 28 renal cell carcinomas that developed in two patients with von hippel-lindau disease ; we then compared the results to those of sporadic tumors . an unbalanced translocation between chromosome 3p and 5q or other chromosomes was found to be the most common aberration . we developed a model of nonhomologous chromatid exchange involving breakpoint clusters at chromosomes 3p13 , 3p11 .2 , 5q22 , and 8q11 .2 . subsequent chromatid segregation may result in net loss of the 3p segment either ( i ) in one step or ( ii ) after a nondisjunctional loss of the derivative chromosome carrying the 3p segment . this general mechanism could also be implicated to explain genetic changes occurring in other types of solid tumors . 
renovascular disease and renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy renal complications of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor therapy are widely recognized , but few authors have documented the incidence or spectrum of these conditions . in a retrospective study of 530 consecutive patients presenting to our unit as acute uraemic emergencies over a six-year period , 85 ( 16 per cent ) had renovascular disease that was considered to be responsible for their loss of renal function . twenty-one ( 4 per cent ) patients had uraemia which could be clearly attributable to ace inhibitor treatment ; 18 of these cases were shown to have significant renovascular pathology . following withdrawal of the ace inhibitor the renal failure reversed in the majority of patients . we also examined 400 consecutive hypertensive patients referred over a similar period and , although vascular imaging was performed only when it was considered to be clinically indicated , 58 ( 14.5 per cent ) of these patients were shown to have renovascular pathology . a further five patients with stable chronic renal disease were seen to have a deterioration in their glomerular filtration rate coincident with commencement of ace inhibitor therapy ; this reversed when the agents were withdrawn . these observations indicate that significant renovascular disease may be more common than has been hitherto recognized and that injudicious use of ace inhibitors may result in serious complications . methods which may minimize such iatrogenic disease are suggested . 
bacteremia due to escherichia coli : a study of 861 episodes . escherichia coli accounted for 861 ( 23.9 % ) of 3,605 episodes of bacteremia in an 18-year prospective survey at st. thomas ' hospital , a proportion that changed little during the survey . the most common focus of infection leading to nosocomial and community-acquired bacteremia due to e. coli was the urinary tract . twenty-six percent of adult female patients with e. coli bacteremia resulting from a urinary tract infection were diabetic . the o antigen serotypes identified most often were o6 , o2 , o1 , o4 , o15 , and o75 ; the multiply resistant o15 serotype of e. coli was implicated in a community outbreak of urinary tract infection . ampicillin resistance in strains causing community-acquired infection increased to the same level as that of strains causing nosocomial infection ( almost 50 % ) . the overall mortality was 20.7 % and was greater in the presence of shock ( 52.4 % vs. 15.3 % ) . death due to infection occurred in 2.6 % and 10.3 % , respectively , of cases with urinary tract and non-urinary tract foci . the adverse influence of inappropriate initial therapy on outcome was more marked in the latter half of the study . 
urinary tract infection caused by corynebacterium group d2 : report of 82 cases and review . corynebacterium group d2 ( cgd2 ) is a slow-growing , urea-splitting , multiantibiotic-resistant microorganism that is frequently isolated from urine samples and that , in certain circumstances , produces infection of the lower urinary tract ( acute and chronic cystitis ) and the upper urinary tract ( pyelonephritis ) . this paper analyzes ( by means of a retrospective and partially prospective clinical protocol ) our experience with 82 patients with cgd2 bacteriuria . the infection was symptomatic in 62 % of cases , and the clinical diagnoses included acute and chronic cystitis and pyelonephritis with or without bacteremia . because cgd2 infection of the urinary tract may require specific antimicrobial treatment and because cgd2 is a fastidious microorganism , we recommend prolonged incubation of urine cultures ( up to 48-72 hours ) , especially if the routine culture is negative , when patients are symptomatic , have alkaline urine , or have struvite crystals in the urine sediment . 
transurethral resection versus needle biopsy prior to radical prostatectomy for stage c prostate cancer . influence on progression and survival . previous reports have claimed that transurethral resection of the prostate ( turp ) preceding definitive radiation therapy for patients with stage c prostate cancer promotes the risk of distant metastasis and increases the mortality rate . a total of 490 patients with pathologic stage c adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated by radical prostatectomy were studied . median time to follow-up was 4.6 years . comparison was made between patients who had turp within the six months preceding prostatectomy ( n = 54 ) and those who had needle biopsy ( n = 437 ) prior to operation . no significant differences were noted in local recurrence of disease , systemic progression of disease , disease-free interval , and overall and cause-specific survival , even after adjustment for clinical ( adjuvant treatment ) and pathologic prognostic variables . our data suggest that for patients with pathologic stage c prostate cancer treated by radical surgery , preoperative turp is not associated with unfavorable outcome . 
treatment of unstable bladder . we present our experience with 2 spinal-injury patients tested for urinary incontinence via implanted sacral nerve electrodes . in each patient , spinal injury occurred at the t-12 level , with presentation of spontaneous detrusor activity . associated weakness of the voluntary sphincter mechanism was evident urodynamically . neurostimulation via wire electrode in the s3 foramen produced good sphincter closure . voiding secondary to spontaneous detrusor triggering could thereby be suppressed , eliminating embarrassing incontinence without interfering with the patient 's ability to empty the bladder at regular intervals . the therapeutic principles of neurostimulation applicable to patients with spastic bladders are underscored by these 2 cases . 
effect of ileal conduit on patients ' activities following radical cystectomy . over the last twenty months , 110 patients who have undergone a radical cystectomy for bladder cancer at the university of texas m. d. anderson cancer center were surveyed to assess the effect of an ileal conduit urinary diversion on postoperative activity . postoperatively , 47.3 percent of the patients were very active , 34.5 percent were moderately active , and 18.2 percent were sedentary . chemotherapy and the patient 's gender were found to have a statistically significant effect on postoperative activity level . chemotherapy resulted in a decrease of very active patients from 55.6 percent to 27.9 percent and an increase in sedentary patients from 11.2 percent to 30.2 percent ( p = 0.005 ) . no difference in activity levels was seen in 73.9 percent of the nonchemotherapy patients . fifty-one percent of the men were very active as compared with only 19.1 percent of the women , whereas 20 percent more women than men were moderately active and 13 percent more were sedentary . our experience indicates that the ileal conduit had no significant negative effect on activity if the effects of chemotherapy are controlled : 82.6 percent of the patients not receiving chemotherapy experienced either no change or an increase in their activity . 
cecal tubularization : lengthening technique for creation of catheterizable conduit . the creation of a continent , catherizable stoma is an integral component of successful continent urinary diversion . a technique is described which allows lengthening of a continent appendicovesicostomy . this technique extends the applications for the mitrofanoff principle of urinary tract reconstruction . 
use of biofeedback in treatment of psychogenic voiding dysfunction . a young man with psychologic problems and a long history of social inadequacy presented with voiding dysfunction . videocystometrography revealed a normal filling phase and normal initiation of voiding interrupted by considerable straining by the patient and marked sphincter electromyographic ( emg ) activity . temporary amelioration was achieved by infiltration of the sphincter with lignocaine hydrochloride and by biofeedback therapy . in such cases optimal results are expected from long-term behavioral therapy . 
renal cell carcinoma vs. renal oncocytoma . report of a case with overlap features and review of the literature although the salient features of renal oncocytomas and renal cell carcinomas have been discussed in the recent literature , renal masses with features of both entities will present diagnostic difficulty , especially when the cells are diffusely eosinophilic on microscopic examination . a case of a firm , tan , rounded mass replacing the lower pole of the kidney is discussed . the final diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma , granular cell type , was made after multiple sections of the tumor were examined , and after electron microscopy was performed . a thorough search by light microscopy should be made for clear cell foci , necrosis , mitotic activity , and vascular or capsular invasion , features generally accepted as pathognomonic for renal cell carcinoma . cellular and especially nuclear pleomorphism is typically focal or mild in renal oncocytomas . true oncocytic tumors will be packed with mitochondria on electron microscopy ; however , granular renal cell carcinomas will contain mitochondria as well as other cellular organelles , lipid , and glycogen . electron microscopy should be performed on tumors suspected of being oncocytomas because eosinophilia on hematoxylin and eosin stain , as demonstrated by this case , is not a predictable measure of mitochondria content . immunoperoxidase staining for vimentin in oncocytomas has recently been shown to be negative , and may offer a method of ruling out oncocytoma in vimentin-positive tumors , pending further studies . 
treatment of renal transplant stones by extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy in the prone position . two patients with renal transplant lithiasis were successfully treated with extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) in the prone position . pathogenesis and treatment of transplant lithiasis are discussed . performing eswl on renal transplant patients in the prone position has advantages over standard positioning techniques . 
anal submucosal injection : a new route for drug administration . vi . chronic prostatitis : a new modality of treatment with report of eleven cases . the anal submucosal route was used for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis in 11 patients . prior to presentation , the patients had received different antimicrobial agents ; the symptoms disappeared only to recur whenever the drug was discontinued . after repeated failure , the patients were treated with gentamicin to which the organisms were sensitive , via the anal submucosal route . a daily injection was given for ten days on an outpatient basis . the technique of injection is described . the patients were followed up clinically and by segmented cultures for three years . no anorectal complications were encountered as had been demonstrated experimentally . the symptoms of chronic prostatitis disappeared , and culture was negative by the end of treatment and for two to three years thereafter in all patients . it appears that the antimicrobial agent , via anal route , reaches the prostatic tissues at a higher concentration than that of the serum . the route adopted by the drug to reach the prostate from the anal submucosa is presented . 
ultrasonographic findings of testicular microlithiasis associated with intratubular germ cell neoplasia . testicular microlithiasis is an uncommon condition in which calcified concretions fill the lumina of seminiferous tubules . we report the case of a twenty-three-year-old white man with a metastatic germ cell tumor and normal findings on testicular physical examination , but abnormal ultrasonography of the right testis . orchiectomy revealed intratubular germ cell neoplasia with testicular microlithiasis . multiple circular echogenic foci on ultrasound correlated with the histologic finding of testicular microlithiasis . further studies are indicated for assessing ultrasonography as an adjunct for screening the population at risk for intratubular germ cell neoplasia . 
germ cell tumor of testis in a patient with von hippel-lindau disease . germ cell testicular tumor is a previously undescribed entity in association with von hippel-lindau disease . this case exemplifies the variety of pathologic entities encountered in von hippel-lindau disease and stresses the importance of thorough evaluation of the patient , as well as careful follow-up , to ensure early detection of potentially malignant lesions . 
eosinophilic granuloma of bladder . eosinophilic granuloma of the bladder , a rare and certainly poorly known disease , simulates bladder neoplasms . clinical aspects , histology , and therapy in a young boy are described . 
study of antireflux nipple valves of kock ileal urinary reservoir . experimental investigation in dogs . to better assess the construction , maintenance , and function of the kock ileal urinary reservoir with its continent antirefluxing nipple valves , laboratory investigations in dogs were done simultaneously with clinical trials in humans in 1983 . fifteen dogs underwent creation of hemi-kock ileal reservoirs ( without the efferent valve and limb ) that were anastomosed to their bladders as enterocystoplasties . the afferent antirefluxing nipple valves were intussuscepted after 7 cm of underlying mesentery had been removed . the nipples were further stabilized with metal and absorbable ( polysorb ) staples and marlex collars . the right ureters were anastomosed to the afferent limb of the reservoirs with the contralateral systems left intact as controls . ten dogs were able to be followed at the vivaria for twelve to thirty-six months and then studied . all nipple valves remained intact , viable , and nonrefluxing without revision . all kidneys remained histologically normal except those in dogs with dilated ureters secondary to ureteroileal stenosis with concurrent calculi formation . calculi formed on exposed metal staples and marlex . the absorbable staples were found to promote appropriate healing and were never the nidus for stone formation . it appears that the intussuscepted nipple valve ( with its mesentery removed ) is reproducible and functionally reliable in preventing reflux . it also appears these valves can histologically preserve diverted kidneys if the upper urinary tract drainage is normal and calculi are minimized . the proper placement of staples and the elimination of marlex-anchoring collars are indicated to minimize calculi . 
the radiographic spectrum of renal osteodystrophy . chronic renal failure often results in bone changes , collectively known as renal osteodystrophy . these changes include osteitis fibrosa , osteosclerosis , soft tissue calcifications , osteomalacia ( in adults ) and rickets ( in children ) . early recognition of renal osteodystrophy allows more aggressive clinical control of serum calcium and phosphate levels . intervention may spare the patient late complications such as fractures , pain and loss of skeletal function . 
etiology and pathophysiology of pyelonephritis . escherichia coli is the most frequent cause of pyelonephritis . its possible virulence factors include the ability to adhere and colonize the urinary tract , an important initiating factor in all urinary tract infections ( utis ) . the importance of p fimbriae in this adhesion is stressed and the evidence for its importance in pyelonephritis is presented in epidemiologic studies of patients , as well as in animal studies . it appears that both host receptor density and the nonsecretor state is responsible for susceptibility to urinary tract infection . vesicoureteral reflux can be responsible for ascending upper tract infection , but infection with p-fimbriated e coli may lead to ascending pyelonephritis without reflux because of the paralytic effect of lipid a on ureteral peristaltic activity . renal ischemia leads to renal damage following infection by reperfusion damage due to the release of superoxide . experimentally , this ischemic damage can be prevented by allopurinol , a xanthine oxidase inhibitor . the acute inflammatory response can produce renal damage because of the respiratory burst of phagocytosis , which while killing phagocytosed bacteria also damages renal tubules . an amelioration of the inflammatory response by treatment with superoxide dismutase or corticosteroids has been shown to modulate renal damage . vaccination with p fimbriae has been shown experimentally to prevent the initiation of the disease . however , since vaccines are not clinically available , the clinical and animal studies on therapy of acute disease are stressed . acute pyelonephritis during the first 3 years of life more often produced the renal damage that could lead to end-stage renal disease . 
the effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition and dietary protein restriction in the treatment of proteinuria . both angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and dietary protein restriction have been reported to reduce urinary protein losses in patients with chronic glomerular diseases . we evaluated these two therapies in 12 such patients ingesting a constant metabolic diet containing 1.6 g protein/kg body weight per day . after a steady-state was achieved during a 3-week baseline period , patients were randomly assigned to either enalapril , titrated to reduce mean arterial pressure by 10 mm hg , or an isocaloric 0.8 g/kg protein diet . five patients in each group completed 3 additional weeks of observation during the treatment period . enalapril resulted in an average reduction in urinary protein and albumin losses of 26 % and 33 % , respectively , without reducing creatinine clearance . albumin synthesis was unchanged and nitrogen balance increased slightly ( +142.8 + / - 85.7 mmol/d [ +2.0 + / - 1.2 g/d ] , p = 0.075 ) . dietary protein restriction had no consistent effect on proteinuria or albuminuria , whereas albumin synthesis ( 25.9 + / - 3.4 v 21.5 + / - 2.9 g/d/1 .73 m2 , p less than 0.05 ) and nitrogen balance ( -135.6 + / - 92.8 mmol/d [ -1.9 + / - 1.3 g/d ] , p = 0.10 ) decreased . both therapies resulted in a modest increase in plasma potassium concentration . whether the maintenance of albumin synthesis in the presence of a reduction in urinary protein losses will convey a long-term advantage to treatment of proteinuric patients with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors remains to be determined . 
preservation of renal reserve in chronic renal disease . protein-induced increases in glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) , termed renal reserve , is said to be abrogated with the onset of renal disease . however , this notion is inconsistent with the results from animal studies which suggest that alterations in protein intake modulate the glomerular hemodynamics in experimental renal disease . accordingly , 12 normal subjects and 15 patients with renal disease received a protein meal providing 1 g/kg body weight protein . the subjects were pretreated with either placebo or an angiotensin i converting enzyme inhibitor , enalapril . a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) increase in inulin and para-aminohippurate ( pah ) clearance was noted in normal subjects as well as in patients with renal disease . the increase in gfr over basal values in normal subjects ( 28 + / - 9 % ) , patients with moderate renal failure ( 20 + / - 13 % ) , and advanced renal failure ( 21 + / - 14 % ) was not different . plasma renin activity was unchanged following protein meal in the placebo studies although it increased following enalapril administration . enalapril pretreatment did not alter the glomerular vasodilation and hyperfiltration following protein meal . we conclude that protein meal induces glomerular hyperfiltration in renal disease and that this protein-induced hyperfiltration is not mediated by angiotensin ii . because glomerular hyperfiltration is implicated in the progression of renal disease , these data suggest that even in patients who have advanced renal failure , high-protein diets may exert a detrimental effect on the kidney . 
survival in patients with end-stage renal disease . based on age and medical condition at the time of treatment , 138 patients beginning dialysis for treatment of chronic renal failure between january 1 , 1984 and december 31 , 1988 , were classified into low , average , and high risk of death . the survival in these three groups was shown to be significantly different after as little as 6 months . the classification scheme is simple , and can be performed at the bedside . efforts to monitor quality assurance in the dialysis unit must account for the significant differences in expected survival that reflect the case-mix observed in a particular unit . 
androgens potentiate the effects of erythropoietin in the treatment of anemia of end-stage renal disease since androgens may increase the sensitivity of the erythroid progenitors to erythropoietin , the present studies were designed to investigate the effect of administration of androgens on the actions of exogenous erythropoietin ( epo ) in hemodialysis patients . studies were performed in a group of 15 adult male hemodialysis patients . seven patients were treated with epo alone at a dose of 2,000 u intravenously ( iv ) three times a week . an additional group of eight patients was treated with 2,000 u of epo three times a week and also received 100 mg of nandrolone decanoate intramuscularly ( im ) each week . after 12 weeks of therapy , hematocrit values increased slightly in the group receiving epo alone , from 25.3 + / - 0.8 to 27.4 + / - 1.5 . in contrast , epo in combination with nandrolone decanoate resulted in a greater increase in hematocrit values , from 24.4 + / - 1.4 to 32.9 + / - 1.8 ( p less than 0.001 ) . the results show that the groups receiving low-dose epo alone had a poor erythropoietic response . in contrast , patients receiving androgen in addition to epo had a significantly greater increase in hematocrit values with treatment . transfusions were eliminated in both groups of patients . these data show that androgen therapy significantly augments the action of exogenous epo such that lower doses of epo are sufficient for an adequate hematopoietic response . 
effect of hemodialysis on protein c , protein s , and antithrombin iii levels . we studied the effect of hemodialysis on natural coagulation inhibitors including protein c ( pc ) , protein s ( ps ) , and antithrombin iii ( at iii ) , as well as the correlations between the antigen level ( immunological activity ) and functional activity of individual coagulation inhibitor . plasma at iii , ps , and pc were measured in 20 uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis immediately before , during , and after dialysis treatment . these values were compared with those obtained from 20 matched healthy controls . plasma pc and total ps antigen levels were measured by enzyme immunoassay . the plasma at iii antigen level was determined by laurell rocket immunoelectrophoresis . functional activities of pc and at iii were determined by the amidolytic method . free ps antigen level was quantitated by measuring the free ps-related antigen after the sample was treated with polyethylene glycol to remove the c4b-binding protein . uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis had a higher total ps antigen level , but a lower free ps antigen level compared with the controls . both the antigen level and functional activity of at iii in uremic patients were significantly lower than those of controls . their predialysis plasma pc antigen level and functional activity were not different from those of normal controls . a significant correlation between the antigen level and functional activity of pc , ps , and at iii was demonstrated in healthy controls , but not in hemodialysis patients . no significant change in the level of at iii or ps was observed with hemodialysis , but a progressive increase of functional activity of pc was documented with hemodialysis . furthermore , the coefficient of correlation between the antigen level and functional activity of pc improved significantly with dialysis treatment . 
epstein-barr virus transformation of b lymphocytes from iga nephropathy patients and first-degree relatives results in increased immunoglobulin synthesis not restricted to iga . in order to study b-cell activation patterns independent of t-cell regulation in patients with iga nephropathy ( igan ) , peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 67 patients with igan , 15 first-degree relatives of patients with familial disease , and 13 normal controls were transformed with epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) . culture supernatants of these transformed cells were assayed for levels of igg , iga , and igm , and results obtained on the three populations were compared . ebv-transformed cells of igan patients , as well as the population of first-degree relatives , secreted significantly elevated levels of all three isotypes as compared with the normal controls . however , in comparing ratios of secreted isotypes , it was determined that more iga relative to igg and igm was synthesized by cells of these two populations as compared with the normal controls . our results imply that ( 1 ) the population of b cells susceptible to ebv activation is increased in igan patients ; ( 2 ) this population of " activatable " b lymphocytes is polyclonal and not restricted to the iga class ; and ( 3 ) even though there may be a primary b-cell abnormality in igan , an additional defect ( s ) is probably operative in the pathogenesis , since cells of clinically unaffected relatives behaved in a pattern similar to that of patients . 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome : a pathologically documented case report . we report a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) in whom the acute onset of neurologic disorders and renal failure could be attributed to thrombotic microangiopathy . clinical , biological , and pathological features were compatible with the diagnosis of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) . such cases have been previously described , but histologically documented case reports are uncommon . 
captopril renography in the diagnosis of renal artery stenosis : accuracy and limitations . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the sensitivity , specificity , and clinical usefulness of renography performed in combination with captopril administration ( " captopril renography " ) in diagnosing renal artery stenosis . patients and methods : fifty-five patients with suspected renal artery stenosis underwent renography prior to performance of renal angiography . renography was performed on two consecutive days using technetium-99m-diethylenetiamine pentaacetic acid ( dtpa ) as an index of glomerular filtration rate and iodine-131-orthoiodohippurate ( oih ) as an index of renal blood flow . captopril ( 25 mg orally , crushed ) was administered 1 hour before the second study . renal artery stenosis was defined as a stenosis exceeding 70 % . renographic criteria were then established , retrospectively , to differentiate renal artery stenosis from essential hypertension based on ( 1 ) asymmetry of function and ( 2 ) the presence of captopril-induced changes . results : renal artery stenosis was detected in 35 of 55 patients ( 21 with unilateral and 14 with bilateral stenosis ) . three criteria were established for diagnosing renal artery stenosis : ( 1 ) a percent uptake of dtpa by the affected kidney of less than 40 % of the combined bilateral uptake , ( 2 ) a delayed time to peak uptake of dtpa , which was more than 5 minutes longer in the affected kidney than in the contralateral kidney , ( 3 ) a delayed excretion of dtpa , with retention at 15 minutes , as a fraction of peak activity , more than 20 % greater than in the contralateral kidney . the presence of one or more of these criteria was diagnostic of renal artery stenosis , with a sensitivity and specificity of 71 % and 75 % , respectively before captopril administration , and 94 % and 95 % after captopril administration . lesser degrees of asymmetry ( i.e. , uptake of 40 % to 50 % ) had very poor diagnostic specificity . among patients with bilateral stenoses , asymmetry identified the more severely affected kidney , but the presence or absence of stenosis in the contralateral kidney could not be reliably determined . when pre - and post-captopril studies were compared , the presence of captopril-induced scintigraphic changes was a highly specific finding for renal artery stenosis , but occurred in only 51 % of the cases . oih scintigraphy provided similar results , with slightly lower sensitivity and specificity . conclusion : asymmetry of dtpa uptake , time to peak uptake , or retention seen on a single post-captopril renogram is a highly sensitive and specific finding in detecting renal artery stenosis but does not distinguish unilateral from bilateral disease . if renograms are obtained both before and after captopril administration , the presence of captopril-induced change is a highly specific finding for the detection of renal artery stenosis , but the sensitivity of this finding is low . 
x-linked hypophosphatemia : skeletal mass in adults assessed by histomorphometry , computed tomography , and absorptiometry . purpose and patients and methods : x-linked hypophosphatemia ( xlh ) is the most common inherited form of rickets , yet its influence on skeletal mass in adulthood is controversial and incompletely characterized . accordingly , we measured bone mass at several skeletal sites using histomorphometric and radiographic techniques in 19 adults ( four men ) with xlh ( age range 20 to 66 years ) . most subjects had not received medical therapy for xlh since puberty . results : eight of 14 subjects who underwent transiliac bone biopsy had an elevated cancellous bone volume ( osteoid and calcified bone ) , and the group 's mean value was supranormal ( p less than 0.01 ) . mineralized bone volume , however , was above normal in only three subjects ( ns ) . another measure of trabecular bone density , vertebral mineral density by computed tomography , was elevated in three of 13 subjects , and the mean value of the group was increased ( p = 0.05 ) . integral spine bone mineral density ( bmd ) assessed by dual photon absorptiometry ( dpa ) was elevated in six of 16 subjects , and the mean was also above normal ( p less than 0.01 ) . however , total body calcium , total body bmd ( both by dpa ) , and forearm bone mineral content assessed by single photon absorptiometry ( predominantly cortical bone ) were normal in almost all subjects , as were the group means for these parameters . mean regional bmd ( by dpa ) was below normal in the upper and lower limbs ( p less than 0.001 ) and above normal in the spine ( p less than 0.005 ) and ribs ( p less than 0.01 ) . there was no relationship between these indices of bone mass and either biochemical or clinical parameters of disease severity , although men tended to have higher z-scores for axial bone density than premenopausal women whose values , in turn , tended to be higher than those in postmenopausal women ( ns ) . conclusion : we conclude that axial bone mass tends to be increased in adults with xlh , sometimes dramatically so , and this is only partially attributable to hyperosteoidosis . peripheral bone mass , however , tends to be diminished . despite these group trends , most adults with untreated xlh have normal indices of bone mass as assessed by a variety of techniques at the commonly used measurement sites . these findings suggest that " osteoporotic " fractures are unlikely to develop as a late complication of xlh in adults . 
interstitial cellular infiltration detected by fine-needle aspiration biopsy in nephritis . fine-needle aspiration biopsy ( fnab ) was used to detect renal mononuclear interstitial inflammation in 56 patients with various types of nephritis ( 20 iga nephropathy , 8 focal necrotizing glomerulonephritis , 7 interstitial nephritis , 6 non-classifiable chronic glomerulonephritis , 5 mesangial proliferative ( non-iga ) chronic glomerulonephritis , 4 focal glomerulosclerosis , 6 normal histology , who were examined for microscopic hematuria , and 7 controls ) . regular renal biopsies for histological and immunofluorescence studies were simultaneously obtained , and available for comparative analysis ( not controls ) . differential counts of mononuclear infiltration and subtyping of t-cell infiltration into t-helper ( t-h ) and t-suppressor-cytotoxic ( t-s-c ) cells , as detected by immunoperoxidase stains from fnab , were correlated to clinical manifestations and renal function tests . generally , our results indicated increased mononuclear cell infiltration ( monocytes , lymphocytes , and/or activated lymphocytes ) in fnab of patients with iga nephropathy , interstitial nephritis or focal necrotizing glomerulonephritis ( especially monocytes in iga nephropathy and interstitial nephritis , p less than 0.05 compared with controls , lymphocytes in focal necrotizing glomerulonephritis , and non-classifiable glomerulonephritis , p less than 0.02 and 0.05 , respectively ) . the number of infiltrating activated lymphocytes was significantly increased in focal necrotizing glomerulonephritis , interstitial nephritis and focal glomerulosclerosis , p less than 0.05 , less than 0.01 and less than 0.01 , respectively . fnab was at least as sensitive as histological examination for the quantification of interstitial cellular infiltration , and it allowed for cytological differential counts . patients had decreased t-h and increased t-s-c cell counts , which were accentuated in fnab compared with peripheral blood , although there were strong positive correlations between local and peripheral counts ( p less than 0.0001 ) . 
intraperitoneal phosphate administration in hungry bone syndrome . hypophosphatemia complicating parathyroidectomy for secondary hyperparathyroidism in renal failure is usually corrected by the oral or intravenous routes . we present a case in which those methods of treatment were not possible , and the phosphate was administered intraperitoneally . phosphate was added as one molar sodium diphosphate solution to the dialysis fluid . in our case the procedure was well tolerated , phosphate blood levels were rapidly corrected , no alterations in calcium , magnesium or other parameters were detected and the patient was discharged in good condition . in selected cases of hungry bone syndrome after parathyroidectomy , intraperitoneal phosphate can be used safely . 
use of aminohydroxypropylidene bisphosphonate ( ahprbp , " apd " ) for the treatment of hypercalcemia in patients with renal impairment . aminohydroxypropylidene bisphosphonate ( ahprbp , " apd " ) is a relatively new bisphosphonate which has been shown to be effective for control of hypercalcemia due to a variety of causes . renal impairment has been reported following the use of other bisphosphonates and pre-existing renal impairment has been regarded as a contraindication to the use of ahprbp . we report the successful use of intravenous ahprbp to control hypercalcemia in three patients with renal impairment , one of whom was dialysis-dependent . no significant side effects were noted ; in particular , there was no further deterioration in renal function . intravenous ahprbp may be a safe and effective agent for the control of hypercalcemia in patients with renal impairment . 
secondary effects of erythropoietin treatment on metabolism and dialysis efficiency in stable hemodialysis patients . to test the possible effect of erythropoietin ( epo ) induced higher hematocrit on dialysis efficacy and metabolism , 14 metabolically stable hemodialysis patients were evaluated with various kinetic methods , including total dialysate collection . tests were performed twice before epo treatment and twice when hemoglobin had stabilized in the targeted range . samples were frozen and batch analyzed for each patient after completion of the study . during this period , dialysis regimens were fixed . epo treatment caused several significant changes . hematocrit increased from 21.5 % to 34.3 % . pre - and postdialysis serum potassium increased 0.3-0 .4 mmol/l , and 56 % more potassium binder was given . serum phosphate concentrations were unchanged , but the aluminum hydroxide dose had been raised 44 % . dialyzer clearance decreased for urea ( 4.8 % ) , creatinine ( 14.7 % ) , phosphate ( 16.5 % ) and potassium ( 8.6 % ) . the ratio of postdialysis/predialysis measurements changed for calcium , creatinine and uric acid . five patients experienced enhanced appetite , but average dry weight did not change , nor could changes be demonstrated for protein catabolism , generation rate of urea and creatinine , or their distribution volumes . estimated sodium intake remained unchanged . the findings indicate that epo treatment reduces dialysis efficiency slightly for a number of substances , but in the metabolically stable patient there are no impressive dietary changes . problems can be overcome by appropriate changes of dialysis regimen and medication . 
update : prostate cancer . prostate cancer represents a major health-care issue for older men . recent technical advances in imaging , serum markers , and treatment hold great promise . further insight into the natural history and biologic potential of this ubiquitous neoplasm is necessary before we can make rational decisions about early detection and newer treatment approaches . 
acute renal failure in critically ill patients : prognosis for recovery of kidney function after prolonged dialysis support objective : to clarify the prognosis for eventual recovery of kidney function in patients who experience prolonged dialysis dependence after acute renal failure ( arf ) . design : retrospective , chart review . setting : inpatients of a large , referral-based hospital . patients : twenty-six consecutive survivors of arf who required greater than 4 wk of dialysis support . results : all 26 patients were critically ill and developed arf during treatment in an icu . the clinical course of these patients was characterized by multiple episodes of renal ischemia or nephrotoxin exposure during dialysis dependence . however , despite multiple renal insults and prolonged dialysis support ( mean duration 8.4 + / - 0.7 wk ) , 23 ( 88 % ) of the 26 patients recovered sufficient kidney function to discontinue dialysis . preexisting renal impairment was associated with a greater risk of irreversible renal failure , and , in patients able to discontinue dialysis , renal recovery was often incomplete . conclusions : despite some renal damage , most critically ill patients who survive arf requiring prolonged dialysis support recover life-sustaining kidney function . 
psychosocial distress and infertility : men and women respond differently . the purpose of this study was to evaluate gender differences in psychosocial responses of 449 consecutive first-admission couples in a fertility clinic . consistent with previous research , infertile women showed higher distress than their partners on a global measure of psychiatric symptoms and subscales of anxiety , depression , hostility , and cognitive disturbances , as well as on measures of stress and self-esteem . when compared with same-sexed population norms on the measure of psychiatric symptoms , both male and female infertile patients were significantly more distressed than average . no evidence was found for unusually high levels of marital or sexual distress at intake . implications of results for clinical management are explored . 
young 's syndrome ( obstructive azoospermia and chronic sinobronchial infection ) : a quantitative study of axonemal ultrastructure and function . the ultrastructure and function of nasal cilia and sperm tails were examined in 23 men with young 's syndrome and compared with data previously collected from 10 normal subjects . quantitative electron microscopic assessment showed that sperm tails from patients with young 's syndrome contained significantly fewer central pair microtubules , radial spokes , and inner dynein arms , and their cilia contained less inner dynein arms than normal subjects . the young 's syndrome patients had normal in vitro ciliary beat frequency ( 11.4 + / - 0.9 hz ) , and 12 of the 23 had normal nasal mucociliary clearance ( 15.0 + / - 5.0 minutes ) . however , the remaining 11 had markedly abnormal nasal mucociliary clearance in vivo . in these patients , the deficiency of ciliary inner dynein arms did not appear to affect ciliary function in vitro but may under mucus loading lead to abnormal in vivo ciliary function . the consistent abnormalities shown in cilia and sperm tails , though apparently minor , constitute a common factor in both the reproductive and respiratory tracts which may , in combination with abnormalities in the in vivo environment , lead to the features of young 's syndrome . 
study of bilateral histology and meiotic analysis in men undergoing varicocele ligation . fifty men underwent testicular biopsy at the time of varicocele ligation . the biopsies were scored and also a portion from each biopsy was subjected to meiotic analysis . all men were followed up ( mean follow-up 19.3 months ) . there were no consistent histologic or meiotic abnormalities , and there was no evidence that the varicocele side was more defective than the contralateral side . thirteen pregnancies were recorded , and these occurred only when the mean johnsen score from one or other testis was greater than 6.0 . 
the concentrations of transferrin , beta 2-microglobulin , and albumin in seminal plasma in relation to sperm count . a number of studies have shown a relationship between transferrin levels in seminal plasma and sperm count . in the present study , the levels of transferrin , beta 2-microglobulin and albumin were measured in 171 samples of seminal plasma ( 50 subjects with normal sperm count ; 32 with azoospermia ; 49 with oligozoospermia ; 10 with polyzoospermia ; and 31 vasectomized ) . all three proteins were related to sperm count . it is concluded that there is a general relationship between seminal plasma proteins and sperm numbers and that some products of the sperm themselves must control the entry of plasma proteins into seminal plasma . 
rapid baroreceptor resetting in chronic hypertension . implications for normalization of arterial pressure . the purpose of this study was to examine the ability of baroreceptors of renal hypertensive rabbits to reset rapidly during acute changes in arterial pressure . the carotid sinus ( cs ) was vascularly isolated and baroreceptor activity was recorded during slow ramp increases in cs pressure in hypertensive ( one-kidney , one wrap ; 127 + / - 3 mm hg ) and normotensive ( one-kidney , no wrap ; 85 + / - 3 mm hg ) rabbits anesthetized with chloralose . control measurements were made after holding pressure for 10-15 minutes at the level of arterial pressure recorded before each experiment . baroreceptor threshold pressure ( pth ) was higher in hypertensives ( 78 + / - 4 mm hg ) compared with normotensives ( 55 + / - 3 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) , and nerve activity was less in hypertensives over a wide range of pressure . cs distensibility ( sonomicrometers ) was not significantly different in the two groups . after increasing holding pressure from control by 30 and 60 mm hg for 10-15 minutes , the extent of baroreceptor resetting ( delta pth/delta holding pressure x 100 % ) in normotensives was 39 + / - 6 % and 33 + / - 2 % , respectively , but only 14 + / - 5 % and 9 + / - 3 % in hypertensives ( p less than 0.05 ) . after decreasing holding pressure by 30 and 60 mm hg , resetting was similar in normotensives ( 32 + / - 6 % and 28 + / - 3 % ) and hypertensives ( 34 + / - 3 % and 30 + / - 4 % ) . in hypertensive rabbits , acute ( 10-15 minutes ) exposure of baroreceptors to normotension ( 71 + / - 4 mm hg ) decreased pth to 62 + / - 4 mm hg and increased nerve activity to levels not significantly different from those of normotensive animals without altering cs distensibility . 
intrinsic vasodilation protects wistar kyoto rats from progressive glomerulosclerosis after unilateral nephrectomy . genetically determined differences in functional and structural determinants that govern the development of progressive glomerulosclerosis ( gs ) were studied in aging sham-operated or unilaterally nephrectomized male rats of two strains . wistar rats showed an increase of proteinuria and gs with age , which was enhanced by unilateral nephrectomy ( un ) . in contrast , intact and un wistar kyoto rats did not show an increase of proteinuria with age and 7 months after un , no gs was seen in these rats . systemic blood pressure was comparable in both strains and was not affected by un . functional studies in a separate group of rats 1 month after un showed an identical increase in glomerular filtration rate in both strains as compared with sham-operated controls . the wistar rats did not show an effect of un on renal plasma flow , and consequently , there was an increase in filtration fraction , in contrast to wistar kyoto rats , which showed an increase in renal plasma flow with an unchanged filtration fraction . glomerular volume was increased in both strains at 1 month and 7 months after un . mesangial expansion was not observed at 1 month after un in either strain , which indicates that this is not a decisive factor in the development of gs . these data indicate that the genetically determined susceptibility to the development of gs in these two rat strains may be related to the degree of vasoconstriction , whereas glomerular volume expansion per se does not lead to gs but can well be a consequence of hyperfiltration . these studies are concordant with previous studies that revealed the role of hemodynamics in the pathogenesis of gs irrespective of glomerular expansion . 
extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction for renovascular hypertension . extracorporeal reconstruction can be applied to the successful repair of stenoses in the distal renal artery and its hilar branches . this study evaluates the short - and long-term results of extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction in 65 patients , including 5 children , with renovascular hypertension who were treated from 1974 through 1989 . the mean age of the patients was 37 years ( range , 7 to 67 years ) . the cause of the stenoses was arteriosclerosis in 8 patients , fibrodysplasia in 54 patients , and miscellaneous in 3 . hypertension was severe before treatment with a mean blood pressure of 187/147 mm hg that was reduced to a mean of 159/102 mm hg after medical therapy . ten patients had renal dysfunction . results were evaluated both at short-term intervals ( mean , 7.9 months ; 64 patients ) and long-term intervals ( mean , 5.9 years ; 60 patients ) , after surgery . blood pressure responses were classified as beneficial ( cured/improved ) or failures . anatomic results were evaluated by angiography in 98 % of the patients at the short-term interval and in 77 % of the patients at the long-term interval . extracorporeal renal artery surgery was performed on 78 kidneys among 65 patients ( unilateral , 45 patients ; bilateral , 13 patients ; unilateral extracorporeal and contralateral in situ , 7 patients ) . in most of the cases autologous arterial graft was used for reconstruction . early in the series one patient died as a result of the operative procedure ( 1/65 , 1.5 % ) . a beneficial blood pressure response occurred in 53 patients ( 53/65 ; 82 % ) at the short-term interval and in 49 patients ( 49/61 ; 80 % ) at the long-term interval , with the average blood pressure at the short-term interval being 138/85 mm hg and at the long-term interval being 139/85 mm hg . renal function improved in all patients with preoperative renal dysfunction . graft stenosis or occlusion of the main renal artery was neither observed at the short-term interval nor at the long-term interval . however , residual stenoses were observed in 9 of the 163 reconstructed distal branches ( 5.5 % ) . extracorporeal renal artery reconstruction with autologous arterial grafts can be effectively applied to lesions of the distal main renal artery and its hilar branches with durable functional results . 
penile duplex sonography in the diagnosis of venogenic impotence . this study tested the hypothesis that measurements of cavernous arterial diastolic velocity and resistance index could provide a quantitative but noninvasive measure of penile corporal venous leakage . seventy-four men were studied with duplex ultrasonography after intracavernosal injection of 60 mg of papaverine . fourteen men had normal erection and served as controls . sixty men had a 1-year history of transient fading or incomplete erections . in all subjects the peak systolic velocity and end-diastolic velocity were measured , and the resistance index was calculated ( peak systolic velocity -- end-diastolic velocity/peak systolic velocity ) . men with normal erections had peak systolic velocities greater than 35 cm/sec and end-diastolic velocities less than 4.5 cm/sec ( group 1 ) . patients with incomplete erections ( group ii ) could be classified into three subgroups . twenty-three patients with end-diastolic velocities greater than 4.5 cm/sec and normal peak systolic velocities greater than 35 cm/sec were suspected to have corporal venous leakage ( group a ) . eighteen patients had normal end-diastolic velocities less than 4.5 cm/sec . twelve of this group had peak systolic velocities less than 35 cm/sec , and six had peak systolic velocities ranging from 37 to 44 cm/sec . these patients were suspected of having arterial insufficiency ( group b ) . fifteen patients with end-diastolic velocities greater than 4.5 cm and peak systolic velocities less than 35 cm were suspected of having both venous leakage and arterial insufficiency ( group c ) . twenty-one patients with abnormal diastolic flow underwent infusion pharmacocavernosometry to determine the saline maintenance infusion rate necessary to maintain an intracavernosal pressure of 90 to 100 mm hg or a full erectile response . 
efficacy of bladder training in older women with urinary incontinence . the efficacy of bladder training was evaluated in a randomized clinical trial involving 123 noninstitutionalized women 55 years and older with urinary incontinence . subjects were urodynamically categorized as those with urethral sphincteric incompetence ( n = 88 ) and those with detrusor instability with or without concomitant sphincteric incompetence ( n = 35 ) . bladder training reduced the number of incontinent episodes by 57 % ; the effect was similar for both urodynamic diagnostic groups . the quantity of fluid loss was reduced by 54 % . this was greater for patients with detrusor instability than for those without it . diurnal and nocturnal voluntary micturitions were also reduced . the effect on nocturnal micturition , however , was not observed in subjects with unstable detrusor function . it is recommended that bladder training be considered as an initial step in treatment of women with urinary incontinence . provided prior comprehensive clinical evaluation is done , it can be prescribed without the need for urodynamic characterization . 
cigarette smoking increases the risk of albuminuria among subjects with type i diabetes . the effect of cigarette smoking on diabetic renal and retinal complications was evaluated in 359 young subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . the prevalence of increased albumin excretion rates was 2.8 times higher in smokers than nonsmokers . mean glycohemoglobin levels and duration of diabetes were also significant factors in the development of diabetic nephropathy and retinopathy in a logistic regression model . smoking remained a significant factor in the logistic regression model for albuminuria ( but not retinopathy ) when controlled for glycohemoglobin level , duration of diabetes , age , gender , and blood pressure . the progression of albuminuria and of retinopathy was also greater in smokers . albuminuria improved significantly when subjects ceased smoking . it is concluded that cigarette smoking is an independent risk factor and is associated with the development and progression of early diabetic renal damage ( albuminuria ) and with the worsening of retinal disease in young subjects with diabetes . 
the sexual relationship of male alcoholics and their female partners during periods of drinking and abstinence . the quality of the sexual relationship between alcoholic male veterans admitted to an alcohol treatment program and their stable nonalcoholic female partners was assessed in relation to time intervals of abstinence and drinking . repeated measures analyses performed on the lopiccolo sexual history form provided information on sexual problems associated with the desire , arousal and orgasm phases of the sexual response cycle and other kinds of information relevant to sexual functioning . results indicate that the sexual relationship varies in relation to drinking or abstinence . sexual intimacy appears quite normal and satisfactory during abstinent periods ; however , female partners present an internally consistent picture of neither desiring nor enjoying sex during drinking periods , though accepting sex reluctantly . for male alcoholics , satisfaction with sex while drinking continues to be reported despite awareness of their partner 's negative emotional reactions during sex . clinicians and researchers are cautioned to differentiate drinking and abstinent periods when assessing the sexual relationship of alcoholic couples . 
the effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests . serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation , which so often accompany systemic illness , have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy . we have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests : a decreased serum t3 concentration ; normal or , in critically ill patients , a low total serum t4 level ; and a normal free t4 concentration . another , less frequent pattern ( high total and free t4 with a normal serum t3 ) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient . with the recent advent of sensitive assays for tsh and better methods for serum free t4 , it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients ; the vast majority are euthyroid . certain drugs confound the picture . the most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids , both of which suppress tsh secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism . other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices ( e.g. , amiodarone ) . knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness , starvation , and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease . 
simple renal cysts in children : diagnosis and follow-up with us . to assess the sonographic frequency of simple renal cysts in children , the authors retrospectively reviewed the results of abdominal sonographic studies of 16,102 children performed over a 5-year period between january 1 , 1985 , and december 31 , 1989 . patients with abnormal renal function , dysplastic kidneys , or a family history of polycystic kidney disease were excluded from the study . the authors ' review of the sonograms revealed 37 simple cysts in 35 patients ( 0.22 % ) ; the cysts were evenly distributed by age and sex and measured from 0.3 to 7.0 cm in maximum diameter . sixteen cysts ( 43 % ) were in the upper pole of the right kidney . follow-up sonographic studies of 23 cysts in 22 patients for up to 5 years showed no change in size in 17 cysts ( 74 % ) . the largest cyst was drained percutaneously ; all other cysts were managed conservatively . no patient showed deterioration of renal function . therefore , the authors concluded that in a pediatric patient demonstrating normal renal function , no further intervention is necessary when a simple renal cyst is identified at sonography . 
nonpalpable prostate cancer : detection with mr imaging . the pathologic specimens and magnetic resonance ( mr ) images of 53 patients with clinically palpable prostate cancer confined to one lobe were studied to evaluate the ability of mr imaging to depict clinically nonpalpable prostate cancer . all patients had undergone imaging with a 1.5-t imager with t1 - and t2-weighted sequences in both axial and sagittal planes before undergoing radical retropubic prostatectomy . at pathologic examination , only the palpable tumor was present in 30 of the 53 patients ( 57 % ) , and 33 unsuspected tumors were present in an area distinct from the palpable tumor in 23 of the patients ( 43 % ) . mr imaging successfully depicted 51 palpable tumors for a sensitivity of 96 % and 19 of the 33 unsuspected tumors for a sensitivity of 58 % . the sensitivity of mr imaging in the detection of nonpalpable , posteriorly located tumors was greater than for those located anteriorly ( 85 % vs 15 % ) . mr imaging was false-positive for nonpalpable tumor in 17 of 30 patients for a specificity of 43 % . on the basis of these data , mr imaging has greater sensitivity in the depiction of posteriorly located cancer and is limited by a high false-positive rate in the depiction of nonpalpable tumors . 
determination of prostate volume with transrectal us for cancer screening . part i. comparison with prostate-specific antigen assays . to investigate whether radiologists can objectively define a high-risk group for prostate cancer , the researchers measured gland volume and compared it with results of a screening blood test , prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) assay . a total of 768 men , aged 55-71 years , were self-referred to two prostate cancer screening programs using transrectal ultrasound ( us ) and digital rectal examination . in patients with no evidence of cancer , statistically significant increases in mean psa values were noted with increasing gland volume ranges ( p less than .05 ) . psa values in patients with cancer were more likely to exceed the volume-adjusted 95th percentile ( mean + [ 1.65 . standard deviation ] ) than those in patients with negative biopsy results ( p less than .005 ) . patients with psa values above the volume-adjusted 95th percentile have an estimated risk for prostate cancer up to nine times that of the general screening population . the researchers conclude that knowledge of transrectal us gland volume and prostate-specific antigen assay type are important objective variables for future prostate cancer screening programs . the volume-adjusted 95th percentiles presented may help guide cost-effective management of current early detection efforts . 
renal artery stenosis : in vivo perfusion mr imaging . the intravoxel incoherent motion ( ivim ) model of perfusion and diffusion imaging was applied to an in vivo canine model of unilateral renal artery stenosis and was compared with relative renal blood flow determination with radioactive microspheres . the percentage relative renal blood flow as determined with radioactive microspheres correlated closely with the percentage apparent diffusion coefficient . if this method can be adapted to human imaging , it may provide a noninvasive means for detecting renal artery stenosis . 
cerebral infarction in patients with nephrotic syndrome . we describe two adult patients who presented with acute cerebral infarction and were found to have a hypercoagulable state due to nephrotic syndrome . one patient had a deficiency of free protein-s . the other patient had a pulmonary embolus 4 months after the stroke . our cases demonstrate that the hypercoagulable state associated with nephrotic syndrome can be associated with cerebral arterial thrombosis and infarction in adults . examination of the urine remains an important part of the evaluation of patients with recent stroke . the presence of severe proteinuria and a low serum albumin content should prompt consideration of a hypercoagulable state . our experience suggests that anticoagulant drugs may be required to reduce the risk of new thrombotic events . 
primary signet-ring cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder . primary signet-ring cell carcinoma is an uncommon malignancy arising in the urinary bladder . the authors report 12 cases collected at their institution . median age for the ten men and two women was 58 years ; the most frequent presentation was hematuria . in two of nine cases no mucosal lesion was cystoscopically visible . eleven tumors were of nonurachal origin and one of urachal . at diagnosis , one tumor was stage b , two stage c , seven stage d , and two stages unknown . nine of 12 patients were dead of disease ( range , 1-16 months ; median , 9 months ) , 1 alive with metastatic disease , 1 alive and well , and 1 dead of an unrelated cause . from a literature review , the authors accepted 35 cases that met their criteria and combined them with their 12 cases for statistical analysis . prognosis was worse with a pure diffuse versus a mixed tumor ( p = 0.004 ) and for nonurachal versus urachal origin ( p = 0.005 ) . the difference in five-year survival rates between stages b and d disease ( p less than 0.05 ) was also statistically significant . 
phenotypic relationships of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia to invasive prostatic carcinoma . thirty-one snap-frozen human prostate specimens containing examples of benign hyperplasia , prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( pin ) , and invasive carcinoma were analyzed using a panel of 24 antibodies and one lectin . twenty-seven additional routinely processed radical prostatectomy specimens were studied using selected probes known to work on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material . three probes , anticytokeratin ka4 , anti-vimentin v9 , and the lectin from ulex europaeus ( uea-1 ) , demonstrated phenotypic similarities between pin and invasive carcinoma . whereas the luminal cells of normal or hyperplastic prostatic epithelium are minimally reactive with ka4 ( 4 % ) or uea-1 ( 0 % ) and strongly reactive with anti-vimentin ( 91 % ) , both the pin and invasive carcinoma are reactive with ka4 ( 89 % and 93 % , respectively ) and uea-1 ( 96 % and 93 % , respectively ) and minimally reactive with anti-vimentin ( 15 % and 0 % , respectively ) . the increased ka4 staining was shown to be in part due to detection of cytokeratin 19 , by using cytokeratin-19-specific antibodies , 4.62 and lp2k . the reasons for the increased expression of this cytokeratin and the decreased expression of vimentin are unclear but seem to indicate a phenotypic relationship between the pin lesions and invasive carcinoma . 
urinary excretion of the c5b-9 membrane attack complex of complement is a marker of immune disease activity in autologous immune complex nephritis . the urinary excretion of the c5b-9 membrane attack complex of complement correlates with glomerular deposition of antibody in the passive heymann nephritis ( phn ) model of membranous nephropathy ( mn ) . to determine if this parameter can be correlated with antibody deposition in a model of mn induced by an autologous mechanism and thus more analogous to human mn , the relationship of urinary c5b-9 to ongoing glomerular immune complex formation late in autologous immune complex nephritis ( aicn ) was studied . based on urinary c5b-9 , the animals were divided into two groups at 12 weeks after induction of aicn , those with persistently high urinary c5b-9 excretion and those in whom urinary excretion of c5b-9 returned to undetectable levels . while all rats developed glomerular deposition of rat igg and significant proteinuria , high c5b-9 excretors had greater proteinuria and prolonged positive staining for glomerular c3 . when normal syngeneic kidneys were transplanted into rats ( n = 3 ) from each group , only those with persistent c5b-9 excretion developed subepithelial immune deposits of rat igg in the transplanted kidney . as in the phn model of mn , proteinuria was dissociated widely from urinary c5b-9 excretion , glomerular c3 staining , and evidence of circulating antibody . thus these findings demonstrate that urinary excretion of c5b-9 serves as an index of on-going immunologic disease activity in the aicn model of mn , while proteinuria does not . 
transforming growth factor-beta production in anti-glomerular basement membrane disease in the rabbit . the purpose of this study was to assay for the presence of collagen synthesis stimulatory activity in the kidney during immune-induced renal injury that results in severe fibrosis in both glomerular and interstitial compartments . a model of antiglomerular basement ( anti-gbm ) disease in the rabbit was induced on day 0 by the injection of anti-gbm antibody and renal cortex tissues were then sampled at various time points . only conditioned media prepared from diseased renal cortical samples showed collagen synthesis stimulatory activity when tested on rabbit mesangial cells . the activity had an estimated molecular weight range of 16 to 25 kd and was neutralized by antibody to transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) . a standard assay for tgf-beta using a mink lung epithelial cell line confirmed the increase in tgf-beta activity in conditioned media of diseased cortex from day 7 and day 14 animals , which was not significantly activated by previous acidification . this suggests that most of the tgf-beta present in renal conditioned media was in the active form . the increase in renal cortical secretion of active tgf-beta was accompanied by increases in renal cortical tgf-beta mrna content on days 4 and 7 after induction , with subsequent return to control levels . a similar increase in tgf-beta activity was present in nonacidified conditioned media of purified glomeruli from diseased days 7 and 14 animals , which was also accompanied by significant increases in tgf-beta mrna . however with acidification no significant differences were noted between control and diseased samples , suggesting the presence of substantial latent tgf-beta activity in control glomerular conditioned media . these same control-conditioned media contained inhibitor activity for added exogenous tgf-beta . these results support the conclusion that the association between increased tgf-beta secretion and increased renal cortical collagen synthesis in this model is consistent with a role for this cytokine in directing fibrogenesis in the kidney . 
less frequent lithium administration and lower urine volume . objective : this study was designed to determine whether patients maintained on a regimen of lithium on a once-per-day schedule have lower urine volumes than do patients receiving multiple doses per day . method : this was a cross-sectional study of 85 patients from a lithium clinic who received different dose schedules . patients were admitted to the hospital for measurement of lithium level , creatinine clearance , urine volume , and maximum osmolality . results : multiple daily doses of lithium were associated with higher urine volumes . the dosing schedule , duration of lithium treatment , and daily dose of lithium did not affect maximum osmolality or creatinine clearance . conclusions : urine volume can be reduced by giving lithium once daily and/or by lowering the total daily dose . lithium-induced polyuria seems to be related to extrarenal as well as to renal effects . 
dipstick analysis of urinary protein . a comparison of chemstrip-9 and multistix-10sg . the boehringer-mannheim chemstrip-9 and ames multistix-10sg urine dipstick assays for the detection of proteinuria were evaluated . chemstrip-9 was more precise than multistix-10sg ( 13 inconsistencies vs 32 among duplicate pairs ) . precision was poorest with the group of inexperienced technologists using multistix-10sg ( chemstrip-9 yielded two inconsistencies vs 15 for multistix-10sg ) with the use of urine supplemented with protein standard . in the evaluation of both protein-supplemented and consecutively acquired patient specimens , multistix-10sg and chemstrip-9 performed in a statistically similar fashion regarding sensitivity and predictive value of a negative test result : supplemented sample sensitivity , patient sample sensitivity , and a predictive value of a negative test result of 90.3 % , 46.8 % , and 68.6 % , respectively , for multistix-10sg compared with 80.6 % , 31.5 % , and 63.5 % , respectively , for chemstrip-9 . we conclude that neither test is sufficiently sensitive for the detection of low levels of proteinuria ( 1 + range ) to function as a screening test for renal disease . 
platelet-activating factor mediates glycerol-induced acute renal failure in rats . 1 . we have studied the effect of inhibiting the interaction of platelet-activating factor with its receptor by using two structurally different antagonists bn-52021 ( 1 mg/kg , intraperitoneally ) and alprazolam ( 1 and 5 mg/kg , intraperitoneally ) on the evolution of glomerular filtration and renal blood flow , in the experimental model of acute renal failure induced by the intramuscular injection of glycerol in rats . 2 . we have also measured arteriovenous differences in platelet-activating factor concentration , as well as platelet-activating factor content in glomeruli from rats with glycerol-induced acute renal failure . 3 . after glycerol injection , untreated rats showed a marked reduction in inulin clearance which reached 77 % in the first 30 min . the reduction was only 27 % in the rats treated with bn-52021 and 38 % in the rats treated with alprazolam ( 5 mg/kg ) , with statistically significant differences between treated and untreated groups . 4 . clearance of p-aminohippuric acid was also improved with bn-52021 or alprazolam treatment . 5 . this protective effect of bn-52021 was observed in a more prolonged follow-up ( 3 days ) . 6 . glomeruli from rats with acute renal failure , treated or untreated with bn-52021 , showed similar amounts of platelet-activating factor , whereas it was undetectable in glomeruli from normal rats . furthermore , rats with glycerol-induced acute renal failure released greater amounts of platelet-activating factor . 7 . these results provide evidence of a role for platelet-activating factor in the genesis of this model of experimental acute renal failure . 
effect of polycations on the function of the isolated perfused rat kidney . 1 . in minimal change nephrotic syndrome the occurrence of heavy proteinuria can be explained on the basis of a reduction in charge selectivity of the glomerular filtration barrier , and it has been proposed that this might be caused by the neutralization of anionic groups by a circulating polycationic factor . 2 . the effects of two polycations , protamine and poly-l-lysine , on the function of the isolated perfused rat kidney have been examined . 3 . poly-l-lysine polymers of relatively high molecular weight ( 8800 and 17,800 ) induced heavy proteinuria , while simultaneously causing a marked increase in renal vascular resistance and a fall in filtration rate . protamine ( approximate molecular weight 7000 ) at relatively high concentration induced modest proteinuria in the absence of effects on vascular resistance or filtration rate . 4 . a poly-l-lysine polymer of lower molecular weight ( 3800 ) did not induce proteinuria . protamine at a concentration of 40 micrograms/ml and below did not affect protein excretion either . both provoked substantial natriuresis . this appeared to be largely due to an effect on the tubular handling of sodium since the filtration rate remained steady while fractional sodium excretion rose markedly . 5 . the natriuretic effect of protamine was blocked by heparin , but not by indomethacin or verapamil , suggesting that the mechanism of natriuresis did not depend upon either prostaglandin production or entry of calcium through verapamil-sensitive channels . 
mucosal peptide hydrolase and brush-border marker enzyme activities in three regions of the small intestine of rats with experimental uraemia . 1 . the activities of nine peptide hydrolases and three non-peptidase brush-border marker enzymes have been quantified in crude homogenates prepared from the proximal , mild and distal regions of small-intestinal mucosa for sham-operated ( n = 9 ) and uraemic ( n = 14 ) rats . abnormalities in enzyme activities were observed in all regions studied in the uraemic group , although no reduction in food intake occurred . 2 . the proximal region of the small intestine from uraemic rats showed a general fall in enzyme activities associated with the brush-border . this fall was combined with a decline in mucosal protein content . in contrast , the mid and distal regions showed increased activity against the dipeptide tyrosyl-glycine . 3 . it is proposed that the fall in brush-border enzyme activities in the proximal small intestine of uraemic rats is a response to the increased water intake associated with this , and presumably other , rat models of uraemia . the increased enzyme activity against tyrosyl-glycine found in the mid and distal regions of the small intestine of uraemic rats may be caused by an increased small-intestinal transit rate , but could be an attempt to maximize tyrosine absorption in response to decreased plasma tyrosine levels . 4 . this study casts doubt on specific activities being the most useful units of enzyme activity , when measured in crude homogenates prepared from the proximal small intestine of uraemic rats . it also demonstrates that enzyme activities measured at a single site in the small intestine of uraemic rats may not be representative of the enzymatic changes occurring in the small-intestinal mucosa as a whole . 
therapy for women hospitalized with acute pyelonephritis : a randomized trial of ampicillin versus trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for 14 days . the efficacy of the traditionally recommended ampicillin ( amp ) plus gentamicin ( gm ) regimen was compared with that of a trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ( tmp/smz ) - plus-gm regimen and the adequacy of 14 days total therapy for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis ( aupn ) . eighty-five women hospitalized for aupn were randomly assigned to receive either amp , 1 g intravenously ( iv ) every 6 h for 3 days , then 500 mg orally four times daily , or tmp/smz , 160/800 mg iv every 12 h for 3 days , then 160/800 mg orally twice daily . initially , all patients also received gm every 8 h iv ( mean , 606 doses ) . antimicrobial resistance necessitated modifying therapy of 14 ( 32 % ) of the amp recipients but of none of the tmp/smz recipients ( p less than .001 ) . both regimens produced a satisfactory bacteriologic and clinical response in all cases . reinfection occurred in 11 % of amp and in 8 % of tmp/smz recipients . no patient experienced relapsing infection . the tmp/smz regimen was less costly and less likely to require modification due to antimicrobial resistance . 
dependence among host response parameters used to diagnose urinary tract infection . the host-response parameters fever , c-reactive protein ( crp ) , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) are activated in concert by cytokines such as interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) . il-6 is secreted in response to escherichia coli infection of the urinary tract . this study tested the hypothesis that the level of fever , crp , and esr is coregulated in individual patients . body temperature , crp , esr , pyuria , and renal concentrating capacity were analyzed in 692 children with first-time urinary tract infections . the association of the parameters was evaluated by correlation and multiple regression analysis . the body temperature , crp , and esr were significantly correlated ( r = .54 , .58 , and .58 ; p less than .001 ) , and variation in crp and esr explained approximately 40 % of the variation in fever . in contrast , the renal concentrating capacity and pyruia were weakly or not at all correlated with the febrile response ( r = -.22 ; p less than .001 ) , and less than 10 % of the variation in renal concentrating capacity was explained by the other parameters . the results suggest that fever , crp , and esr describe the same aspect of the host response to uti . 
sex or survival : trade-offs between quality and quantity of life . patients with localized prostate cancer may be treated with either surgery ( radical prostatectomy ) or radiotherapy . although controversial , many physicians believe that surgery offers a higher survival rate . however , the surgical treatment may also produce a higher rate of sexual impotency . our study assessed how men value survival and sexual potency when asked to trade off one for the other . using the treatment-choice technique , we interviewed 50 men aged 45 to 70 years without known prostate cancer . at hypothetical rates of survival ( 90 % at 5 years for surgery ) and impotency ( 90 % for surgery and 40 % for radiotherapy ) representing published estimates , 32 % of respondents were unwilling to trade off any survival , but 68 % were willing to trade off a 10 % or greater advantage in 5-year survival ( by choosing radiotherapy ) to maintain sexual potency . the median 5-year survival traded off was 10 % ( range , 0 % to 80 % ) . willingness to trade off survival for sexual potency was significantly related to level of education , but not to age , interest in sex , frequency of sexual intercourse , or ability to achieve erection . we conclude that some men may choose treatment with lower long-term survival to increase their chance of remaining sexually potent . because these men may be difficult to identify in clinical practice , physicians should thoroughly discuss both surgery and radiotherapy options with patients who have localized prostate cancer . 
dmps as a rescue agent for the nephropathy induced by mercuric chloride . the effectiveness of 2,3-dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate ( dmps ) as a rescue agent for the acute nephropathy induced by hgcl2 was studied in uninephrectomized ( npx ) and sham-operated ( so ) rats . npx and so rats that were given a toxic 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 developed severe renal damage within 24 hr after the hgcl2 was administered . renal injury was assessed by measuring plasma creatinine , creatinine clearance , fractional excretion of several biological markers , the rate of excretion of cellular enzymes and plasma solutes and severity of morphologically demonstrable necrosis in the pars recta of proximal tubules . when a 10-mg/kg dose of dmps was given to the npx and so rats 1 hr after treatment with the 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 , the nephropathy induced by the dose of hgcl2 was less severe . moreover , the npx rats had significantly less severe renal damage than did the so rats . renal damage was completely absent from both npx and so rats that were given a 100-mg/kg dose of dmps 1 hr after treatment with the 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 . these data indicate that at the 10-mg/kg dose of dmps , npx rats are protected against the nephrotoxic effects of a 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 to a greater extent than are so rats . moreover , the data show that complete rescue from the 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 is afforded to npx and so rats given 100 mg/kg of dmps within 1 hr after treatment with hgcl2 . this complete rescue is afforded for at least 24 hr . based on the present findings dmps may prove to be a useful rescue agent against the acute nephropathy induced by hgcl2 . 
ureteral obstruction and ureteral fistulas after aortofemoral or aortoiliac bypass surgery . ureteral injury after aortofemoral or aortoiliac bypass surgery has seldom been described in the literature considering the large number of bypass operations performed . some causative factors , such as the position of the bypass , are obvious while others are less clear . however , no attempt has been made to unify criteria to establish a management protocol . of 154 cases of ureteral units with ectasia reviewed ureteral fistulas were present in 19 . radiological ureteral obstruction appears to precede fistula formation . symptoms , time of diagnosis and treatment according to the predominant etiology have been discussed . etiological ( in varying degrees of importance ) , clinical and diagnostic criteria , together with a management and therapeutic protocol in which early and late lesions are clearly differentiated were established , while bearing in mind that not all radiological obstruction patterns correspond to true ureteral lesions . 
management of primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval thrombus . we report our experience with the management of 7 primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval tumor thrombus . included are 3 cases of adrenal cortical carcinoma and 1 each of transitional cell carcinoma , embryonal cell testicular carcinoma , pheochromocytoma and primary small cell carcinoma of the lung with metastases to the kidney . surgical treatment and followup are presented , as well as a review of the literature . an aggressive surgical approach is warranted because prolonged survivals free of disease are possible . 
the incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in renal cell carcinoma . this retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in 218 renal cell carcinoma patients during the last 20 years . of 218 patients 20 ( 9.2 % ) were hypercalcemic , with serum calcium levels ranging from 10.7 to 16.0 mg . / dl . the respective incidence of humoral hypercalcemia was 3 % in patients with stage i , 5.9 % with stage ii , 14.1 % with stage iii and 18.9 % with stage iv disease without bone metastasis . the survival curves between the hypercalcemic and eucalcemic groups among stages i to iii cancer patients showed no statistical significance ( p greater than 0.05 ) . the survival curve deteriorated significantly in stage iv cancer patients with humoral hypercalcemia ( p less than 0.005 ) , with a median survival of 45.0 + / - 39.7 days versus 286.4 + / - 27.6 days in eucalcemic patients . no specific correlation was found between pathological cell type and humoral hypercalcemia . 
post-transplant renal artery stenosis : a possible immunological phenomenon . a retrospective review of 110 consecutive kidney transplants performed during 4 years revealed the development of renal artery stenosis in 9 patients ( 8.18 % ) . a comparison of this group with a control group similar in patient age and interval elapsed since transplantation revealed no significant differences in donor and recipient ages , degree of hla compatibility or serum creatinine levels . however , there was a significant difference in the number of acute rejection episodes . in our series only male patients were affected . a sizable proportion of the patients ( 50 % ) had no detectable murmur over the graft area despite high blood pressure and increased creatinine levels . the absence of surgical injury during extraction and implantation of the grafts , together with the anatomical site of the stenosis and correlation with the degree of immunological intolerance suggest an immunological factor as the underlying cause in post-transplant renal artery stenosis . 
acute changes in renal function following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy in patients with a solitary functioning kidney . twelve consecutive patients with a solitary functioning kidney were treated for renal stone by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl * ) with the modified dornier hm3 lithotriptor and studied for 3 days after treatment . urinary excretion of electrolytes , n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase ( nag ) , alkaline phosphatase , kallikrein , glycosaminoglycans , albumin and beta 2-microglobulin , and clearances of creatinine , inulin and para-aminohippuric acid were determined , as were serum levels of creatinine , urea , beta 2-microglobulin and aldosterone , and plasma renin activity . urinary flow rate , free water clearance , and urinary excretion of nag , kallikrein and beta 2-microglobulin were significantly increased 0 to 24 hours after eswl . the urinary excretions of alkaline phosphatase , albumin and glycosaminoglycans were unchanged . glomerular filtration rate was significantly decreased and effective renal plasma flow was unchanged . filtration fraction was stable . serum lactic dehydrogenase increased significantly after eswl and remained high through the period of observation . serum levels of creatinine , beta 2-microglobulin and aldosterone were unaltered . a decrease in plasma renin activity immediately after treatment is explained by the water immersion and the extracellular volume expansion during treatment . 
use of the collings knife electrode for percutaneous access in difficult endourology cases . percutaneous endourological techniques for the removal of upper urinary tract calculi and for the closed treatment of ureteropelvic junction obstruction are well described . these techniques are dependent on satisfactory percutaneous access and nephrostomy tract dilation . we used the collings knife electrode for the creation of a nephrostomy tract in 17 patients ( 19 renal units ) with difficult percutaneous access due to scarification , or the inability to advance a guide wire sufficiently for stabilization and dilation by conventional means . a nephrostomy tract was established successfully in all 19 procedures requiring an average of 12 minutes . two major complications occurred that required blood transfusion and an open operation . endourological treatment was successful in the remaining 17 cases . we believe that this technique provides an alternative to an open operation when standard access and dilation methods for endourological procedures are unsuccessful . 
ureteral calculi : natural history and treatment in an era of advanced technology . patients with ureteral stones may be managed expectantly , or treated with a variety of invasive and noninvasive techniques depending on stone composition , size and location , expectations of the patient and experience of the surgeon . of 378 patients with documented ureteral calculi 60 % passed the stones spontaneously . passage rates from the proximal , middle and distal ureter were 22 , 46 and 71 % , respectively . basketing under fluoroscopic control of distal stones was successful in 79 % of the attempts and for those in whom this approach failed ureteroscopy was performed , with a success rate of 90 % . when ureteroscopy was used as the initial treatment of distal stones removal was achieved in 81 % of the patients . these statistics serve as a reminder that traditional therapy of ureteral stones has not lost its role in contemporary practice . 
management of upper tract calculi in patients with tubularized urinary diversions . in a retrospective review of patients with urinary diversion who presented to our stone center during a 3.5-year period 9 underwent 20 procedures for suspected stone episodes . eventual outcome was excellent in all but 1 patient . in particular , all attempts at retrograde trans-stomal manipulation were successful . we present our cases , and note the technical considerations and management principles . frequently , these patients are best served by a combination of percutaneous antegrade , trans-stomal retrograde and/or extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy . 
cellular immunity in interstitial cystitis . it has been suggested that interstitial cystitis is an autoimmune disease . the evidence for this hypothesis , based on studies of humoral immune factors , has been contradictory . we assessed the immune response in interstitial cystitis by evaluating lymphocyte populations in the peripheral blood and bladder tissue of interstitial cystitis patients . the lymphocyte phenotypes in peripheral blood were entirely normal , including the cd4 ( cluster designation nomenclature ) and cd8 subsets , and the cd4 : cd8 ratio . bladder lamina propria showed a predominance of cd4 over cd8 lymphocytes in interstitial and other forms of cystitis . bladder epithelium showed a similar pattern in bacterial or mechanical cystitis but specimens from patients with interstitial cystitis had a predominance of cd8 cells . the findings of normal lymphocyte populations in the peripheral blood are not supportive of an autoimmune mechanism in the disease . the findings in bladder tissue show that the urothelium is not involved in the inflammatory reaction , as is the lamina propria , and they would suggest , therefore , that the initiating factor does not originate from the bladder lumen . the cd8 predominance in the urothelium along with a cd4 predominance in the lamina propria may form a characteristic pattern for the diagnosis of interstitial cystitis and merits further study . 
uptake of 2-deoxy , 2 - ( 18f ) fluoro-d-glucose in bladder cancer : animal localization and initial patient positron emission tomography . an orthotopically transplanted , locally metastasizing rat bladder tumor model was developed to evaluate the extent of uptake of fluoro-deoxy-glucose ( fdg ) in bladder cancer . significant uptake of fdg in localized bladder tumors in rats was shown , with an average tumor-to-blood ratio of 39 at 2 hours after intravenous fdg administration . metastases ( 3 nodal and 1 peritoneal ) also showed significant uptake of fdg , with an average metastasis-to-blood ratio of 21.7 , and tumor involved-to-normal lymph node ratio of 5.3 . because fdg is excreted in the urine , urinary fdg potentially could prevent the use of fdg/positron emission tomography ( fdg/pet ) scanning for localized bladder cancer . bladder lavage successfully reduced the retention of fdg in the normal rat bladder , with an estimated uptake ratio of tumor-to-normal bladder of 13.1 after 5 ml . saline irrigation . based on these data , we performed an fdg/pet scan of a patient with biopsy proved recurrent intravesical bladder cancer after radiation therapy . computerized tomography ( ct ) of the pelvis showed abnormalities consistent with radiation scarring and extravesical tumor . due to the scarring , the extent of tumor growth could not be determined . the patient also had pulmonary opacities seen on chest radiography . the fdg/pet scan of this patient showed significant extravesical uptake in the pelvis , confirming the abnormality noted on ct . good images of the clinically apparent metastases in the chest also were obtained . these preliminary data indicate that fdg/pet imaging of bladder cancer is feasible and it may provide new information for the diagnosis and staging of patients with bladder cancer . 
vacuum tumescence devices : the role of papaverine in the selection of patients . we conducted a prospective study to determine the positive predictive value of papaverine testing to select patients in whom a vacuum constriction device would be a successful alternative to operative management of impotence . a total of 30 men presenting to an impotence clinic was evaluated with a series of papaverine dosages up to 60 mg . these patients then received a physician-administered trial of a vacuum constriction device , followed by 3 months of home use and a repeat objective evaluation . initial responses to the device were poor , with 46 % of the patients ( 14 ) achieving a rigid erection . however , after 3 months of home use 83 % of the patients ( 25 ) achieved a rigid erection . the positive predictive value of a good response to the papaverine trial was 94 % . 
intracavernous self-injection of vasoactive drugs in the treatment of impotence : 8-year experience with 615 cases . of 615 patients with impotence of varying etiologies who were followed from 12 to 96 months after the institution of intracavernous self-injection therapy with vasoactive drugs ( papaverine alone , papaverine and alpha-blockers , and ceritine , a new multilevel acting drug ) 87 % ( 533 patients ) returned for followup visits or were regularly contacted . of these patients sexual activity was restored in 91 % . the dropout rate was 11.25 % . the 114 episodes of prolonged erections among 51 patients ( 4.57 % ) represented less than 3 per 1,000 of the 34,875 recorded injections . all patients were treated without complications . the percentage of patients suffering from nodules or permanent deformations was 2.8 % . there were no cases of intracavernous fibrosis . the percentage of satisfied patients ( satisfaction index 7 or greater ) was 84.8 % . improvement in spontaneous erections during sexual intercourse was obtained in 65 % of the cases : 15 % no longer needed self-injections and 50 % only used them occasionally while 35 % remained entirely dependent . 
recurrent subacute torsion : prospective study of effects on testicular morphology and function . a prospective study was done on 43 consecutive patients with a diagnosis of recurrent subacute testicular torsion . all patients underwent full examination , hormonal assays and seminal fluid analysis before scrotal exploration , bilateral testicular biopsy and fixation . seminal fluid analysis and hormonal assays were repeated 3 months postoperatively . of the patients 36 were cured of recurrent pain , 35 of whom had a horizontally lying testis . no hormonal abnormalities were found preoperatively or postoperatively . three patients had abnormal seminal fluid analysis . testicular biopsies , including johnsen scores , were abnormal in these 3 patients and normal in the other 33 . it is concluded that patients with recurrent subacute torsion can be identified accurately and treated satisfactorily . there is little evidence that these patients suffer testicular damage as a result of this subacute torsion or that any pre-existing cellular abnormality exists to explain the oligospermia that frequently is seen in patients who have acute testicular torsion . 
post-chemotherapy tumor residuals in patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer . is it necessary to resect all residual masses ? a total of 15 patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer underwent 2 sequential operations ( 4 in 1 patient ) to remove residual masses after cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy . all patients had normal human chorionic gonadotropin and alpha-fetoprotein levels but persistent radiographic masses after chemotherapy . the operations included retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in 13 patients , thoracotomy in 15 , hepatic resection in 3 and craniotomy in 1 . histological comparison of the specimens resected during post-chemotherapy operations 1 and 2 demonstrated different patterns in 7 of 15 patients . of these 7 patients 4 had less favorable pathological features in the specimen removed during the second procedure . residual malignant tumor or mature teratoma was found in at least 1 site in 12 of the 15 patients and only 3 had complete necrosis or fibrosis in both specimens examined . these data indicate the favorable impact of excising all post-chemotherapy tumor residuals in patients with advanced nonseminomatous testicular cancer . however , in patients with no teratomatous elements in the testicular tumor and complete necrosis or fibrosis in the initial post-chemotherapy operation specimen the probability of complete necrosis or fibrosis in remaining tumors appears to be high . 
interstitial temperature measurements during transurethral microwave hyperthermia . microwave hyperthermia is presently being investigated as a treatment for alleviating the symptoms of urinary outlet obstruction associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia . two clinical techniques using intracavitary microwave applicators are being evaluated for safety and efficacy at various institutions . the transrectal technique uses a directional microwave radiator that is inserted into the rectum adjacent to the prostate . the transurethral approach uses a symmetrically radiating applicator located within the prostatic urethra . transrectal prostatic heating techniques require surface cooling to prevent hazardous temperatures in the intervening rectal mucosa . since transurethral applicators radiate from within the prostatic urethra , heating is confined to the obstructive tissue immediately surrounding the applicator . concern has been expressed regarding the possibility of thermal injury to the prostate and adjacent rectum during transurethral hyperthermia treatment . in this report we present interstitial temperature measurements of prostatic and rectal temperatures in 5 patients . temperature was observed to decrease at a rate of about 6c/cm . outward from the applicator . no clinically significant temperature increase was observed beyond 1 cm , outside the prostatic capsule or in the rectal mucosa . 
treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy by a long-acting gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue : 1-year experience . benign prostatic hypertrophy , a common ailment among elderly men , usually is treated by surgery . since androgens enhance prostatic hypertrophy , their withdrawal seems a logical way to treat this condition . recently gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues , known to produce " chemical castration , " have been tried in cases of benign prostatic hypertrophy . we report our experience with 20 men treated by a monthly injection of gonadotropin-releasing hormone for prolonged periods . in 17 men treated for 6 months the prostatic volume decreased to an average of 63 % of the initial volume ; however , this did not correlate with clinical objective improvement . only 6 men attained normal flow rates . residual urine volume remained unaltered . ten patients experienced subjective amelioration , while only 7 ( 40 % ) reported objective and subjective improvement . maximal decrease in prostatic volumes was reached at 9 months of treatment and further treatment did not cause additional shrinkage . at 3 months after discontinuation of treatment prostatic volumes returned to 95 + / - 10.5 % of pre-treatment values . a similar decrease in flow rates also was noted . symptoms remained improved for longer periods . we conclude that this mode of treatment offers little to the majority of men with benign prostatic hypertrophy . proper patient selection , based perhaps on serum prostate specific antigen , might augment positive results . this therapy should be restricted to patients considered high risk for any surgical and anesthetic intervention , and then it will have to be continued indefinitely . 
predicting radionuclide bone scan findings in patients with newly diagnosed , untreated prostate cancer : prostate specific antigen is superior to all other clinical parameters . presently , the standard staging evaluation of prostate cancer includes digital rectal examination , measurement of serum tumor markers and a radionuclide bone scan . to evaluate the ability of local clinical stage , tumor grade , serum acid phosphatase , serum prostatic acid phosphatase ( pap ) and serum prostate specific antigen ( psa ) to predict bone scan findings , a retrospective review of 521 randomly chosen patients ( mean age 70 years , range 44 to 92 years ) with newly diagnosed , untreated prostate cancer was performed . local clinical stage , tumor grade , acid phosphatase , pap and psa all correlated positively with bone scan findings ( p less than 0.0001 ) . using receiver operating characteristic curves , however , psa had the best over-all correlation with bone scan results . the median serum psa concentration in patients with a positive bone scan was 158.0 ng . / ml. , whereas men with a negative bone scan had a median serum psa level of 11.3 ng . / ml . ( p less than 0.0001 ) . using multivariate logistic regression analysis , local clinical stage , tumor grade , acid phosphatase and pap were evaluated in combination with psa to assess whether these parameters increased the ability of psa alone to predict bone scan findings . none of these clinical parameters , irrespective of the combination used , contributed appreciably to the predictive power of psa alone . a probability plot with 95 % confidence intervals was constructed that allows the practicing urologist to estimate on an individual basis the probability of a positive bone scan for any given serum psa value . the most significant finding of this study , however , was the negative predictive value of a low serum psa concentration for bone scan findings . in 306 men with a serum psa level of 20 ng . / ml . or less only 1 ( psa 18.2 ng . / ml . ) had a positive bone scan ( negative predictive value 99.7 % ) . this finding would suggest that a staging radionuclide bone scan in a previously untreated prostate cancer patient with a low serum psa concentration may not be necessary . 
the distribution of residual cancer in radical prostatectomy specimens in stage a prostate cancer . to assess the volume and distribution of residual cancer after transurethral resection of the prostate in stage a cancer patients 42 step-sectioned radical prostatectomy specimens were examined , and the volume , location , grade and extracapsular extension of the residual tumor were recorded . a total of 13 patients had stage a1 tumors ( 5 % or less tumor in the transurethral resection specimen and a gleason sum of 7 or less ) and 29 had stage a2 disease . residual cancer was present in the radical prostatectomy specimen in 41 patients ( 98 % ) with a mean volume of 1.28 cc . the location of residual cancer , that is multifocal ( 76 % ) , peripheral ( 81 % ) and distal to the verumontanum ( 66 % ) , makes complete removal or even identification of residual tumor ( restaging ) by repeat transurethral resection improbable . of the stage a1 cancer patients 4 ( 30 % ) had more than 1 cc residual tumor volume , extracapsular extension or seminal vesicle invasion . on the other hand , 14 of the stage a2 cancer patients ( 48 % ) had less than 1 cc residual tumor completely confined to the gland . foci of residual cancer were found in the transition zone in 67 % and in the peripheral zone in 90 % of the patients . the grade of the residual peripheral zone cancer was significantly higher than that of the transition zone cancer in the same gland ( p = 0.0004 ) . eight of 13 instances of extracapsular extension and all 5 of seminal vesicle invasion were directly attributable to peripheral zone cancer . these observations imply that the greatest threat to patients with stage a prostate cancer may be a separate , associated cancer in the peripheral zone rather than the primary transition zone cancer incidentally removed at transurethral resection . 
bioavailability of potassium and magnesium , and citraturic response from potassium-magnesium citrate . the bioavailability of potassium and magnesium , and the citraturic response were determined for the new compound , potassium-magnesium citrate , in 14 normal volunteers . results were compared to those of potassium citrate and magnesium citrate . each subject participated in 4 phases of study : potassium-magnesium citrate , potassium citrate , magnesium citrate and potassium chloride . after stabilization on a metabolic diet , each subject ingested a single load of a test medication followed by timed urine collections for the next 24 hours . test loads included potassium-magnesium citrate ( 49 meq . potassium , 24.5 meq . magnesium and 73.5 meq . citrate ) , potassium citrate ( 50 meq . ) , potassium chloride ( 50 meq . ) and magnesium citrate ( 25 meq . ) urinary potassium , magnesium and citrate were measured for each collection period . potassium-magnesium citrate provided an equivalent potassium bioavailability as potassium citrate and potassium chloride , and a comparable magnesium bioavailability as magnesium citrate . however , it gave the highest citraturic response , since the cumulative increment in urinary citrate post-load was 129 mg . daily for potassium-magnesium citrate , 105 mg . daily for potassium citrate and 35 mg . daily for magnesium citrate . thus , potassium-magnesium citrate gave an optimum citraturic response in addition to providing absorbable potassium and magnesium . 
laser treatment of obstruction from incrusted ureteral catheter . incrustations may develop on ureteral catheters and cause obstruction . we report a case in which obstruction was relieved by laser lithotripsy inside the lumen of the catheter . this completely noninvasive technique may prove to be useful in selected cases . 
endopyelotomy for secondary ureteropelvic junction obstruction in children . percutaneous endopyelotomy has been shown to be successful in treating ureteropelvic junction obstruction in adults . little data have been published regarding this procedure in children . we describe 4 patients 6.5 weeks to 5.5 years old who underwent percutaneous endopyelotomy to treat ureteropelvic junction obstruction following failed open dismembered pyeloplasty . preoperative obstruction was demonstrated by a nephrostogram , diuretic renogram and/or ultrasonography . percutaneous endopyelotomy was successful in relieving the obstruction in all 4 patients , although 2 required secondary endoscopic procedures . one patient had persistent obstruction 40 days after endopyelotomy at the ureteropelvic junction and , subsequently , required percutaneous resection of a persistent flap of obstructing tissue . in another patient a ureterovesical stricture was noted at the time of stent removal , which was treated by endoscopic incision . all patients have been followed from 1.5 to 3 years postoperatively . followup diuretic renograms , ultrasound and/or excretory urography demonstrated a patent ureteropelvic junction in all patients and all have remained asymptomatic . endopyelotomy appears to be safe and effective in treating secondary ureteropelvic junction obstruction in children . 
continence in bladder exstrophy : determinants of success . we evaluated 19 female and 18 male patients with bladder exstrophy , who had completed staged reconstruction , had required no further surgery and underwent urodynamic studies . of the male population 61 % were continent based on a significantly higher urethral continence length ( 25.8 + / - 6.4 mm. , mean plus or minus standard error ) and a higher urethral closing pressure ( 69.4 + / - 5.8 cm . water ) compared to the incontinent male population ( 11.4 + / - 3.1 mm . and 43.4 + / - 4.6 cm . water ) . no significant difference was noted in the bladder capacity of these 2 groups . of the female population 57.9 % were continent . they also demonstrated a higher urethral continence length ( 21.1 + / - 4.4 mm . ) and a higher urethral closing pressure ( 62.7 + / - 10.2 cm . water ) compared to the incontinent female subjects ( 8.4 + / - 2.5 mm . and 32.7 + / - 6.9 cm . water ) . moreover , those who were continent had a significantly higher bladder capacity ( 201.2 + / - 39.5 ml . ) compared to those who were incontinent ( 84.3 + / - 23.6 ml . ) . these findings support a multifactorial mechanism in achieving continence but they suggest that of all the factors urethral length may be the most important . 
management of posterior urethral strictures secondary to pelvic fractures in children . bulboprostatic anastomotic urethroplasty was performed in 20 children with posterior urethral strictures secondary to bony pelvic fractures . the approach was perineal in 4 children and transpubic abdominoperineal in 16 , with good postoperative results in 100 and 62.5 % , respectively . in some children the urethral disruption occurred within the prostate itself and not at the prostatomembranous junction . in such cases the proximal sphincteric mechanism may be at risk and immediate repair of the injury is advisable . in the case of common prostatomembranous disruption displacement of the urethra may be significant . in such cases a transpubic approach is preferable . if the proximal sphincteric mechanism is deranged , it can be managed at the same time . 
acute urinary retention secondary to herpes simplex meningitis . we report a case of acute urinary retention in a 24-year-old man with herpes simplex meningitis without genital lesions . since the differential diagnosis in young patients who present with acute urinary retention also includes multiple sclerosis , lumbosacral disk herniation , rheumatological disorders and drug intoxication , a thorough history and careful neurological examination are of paramount importance in distinguishing these syndromes . as part of a directed neurological evaluation prompt performance of lumbar puncture is indicated ; a lymphocytic pleocytosis is suggestive of herpetic meningitis . culture of herpes simplex virus from the cerebrospinal fluid should be attempted . we recommend conservative management only , typically with intermittent catheterization , since bladder function usually normalizes within 10 to 14 days . 
endometriosis of bladder after menopause . we report a rare case of endometriosis of the bladder in a 68-year-old postmenopausal woman . the patient had not received any exogenous estrogen therapy and the hormone levels were normal for a castrated female subject . endometriosis of the bladder should be considered as a cause of an abnormal mass of the bladder even after menopause . this case documents that urinary involvement by endometriosis may persist even after years of a hormonally castrated state . 
pelvic lipomatosis associated with cystitis glandularis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder . pelvic lipomatosis is a rare condition characterized by an overgrowth of normal fat in the perivesical and perirectal spaces . cystitis glandularis , cystica or follicularis has been observed in 75 % of the patients with pelvic lipomatosis . although cystitis glandularis is widely regarded as premalignant few reports have documented its transition to adenocarcinoma . we describe a 41-year-old man with pelvic lipomatosis in whom primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder developed 6 years after a histological diagnosis of cystitis cystica and glandularis was established . to our knowledge this is the second case reported of pelvic lipomatosis associated with proliferative cystitis and adenocarcinoma of the bladder , indicating that intestinal metaplasia of the urothelium may be a precursor of malignancy in these patients . 
locally recurrent endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the prostate after radical prostatectomy . endometrioid carcinoma of the prostate is considered a variant of classical prostatic ductal carcinoma . endometrioid carcinoma variant often has the unique clinical presentation of gross hematuria . the propensity of this tumor to spread within the urothelium makes local failure of curative therapy commonplace . we present 2 representative cases with a review of followup surveillance procedures and treatment options for the local recurrence once identified . 
cavernous nerve grafts restore erectile function in denervated rats although potency can be preserved in most men following radical prostatectomy , in some patients one or both cavernous nerves must be sacrificed in order to excise all tumor . for these patients we have considered nerve reconstruction at the time of surgery using an interposition nerve graft . this possibility has been tested in a rat model . animals were divided into three groups . in the sham control group , a pelvic exploration was conducted without division of the cavernous nerves . in the nerve ablation group , a five mm . segment of cavernous nerve was excised . in the graft group , five mm . of cavernous nerve was excised bilaterally and replaced with an interposition graft of genito-femoral nerve . at one month intervals postoperatively animals from each group underwent mating tests to determine potency ; the ratio of vaginal intromission to unsuccessful mounts ( i/m ratio ) was determined . following the mating tests the animals were re-explored and attempts were made to stimulate erections electrically via the pelvic nerve . results at two months show the i/m ratio of the rats with grafts ( 0.05 ) and the nerve ablations ( 0.14 ) are low compared with the sham operated animals ( 1.0 ) . by month four the graft group ( 0.89 ) has approached the sham group ( 0.91 ) while the ablation group ( 0.18 ) remains unchanged ( p less than .05 ) . electrical stimulation at month two produced no erections in the nerve ablated or the grafted rats and 100 % erections in the sham-operated animals . at month four , 50 % of the rats with grafts , 10 % of the nerve ablated animals , and 100 % of the intact animals produced erections upon electrical stimulation ( p less than .05 ) . these results suggest that cavernous nerve grafting in rats can be successful in restoring potency after surgical injury . application of these techniques to man may be indicated . 
effect of suramin on human prostate cancer cells in vitro . suramin , a polyanionic compound with known antiparasitic activity , has been shown to be adrenocorticolytic in primates and to have clinical efficacy in the treatment of patients with metastatic prostate cancer refractory to conventional hormonal manipulation . to better characterize the activity of suramin on prostate cancer biology , we studied the effect of the drug on plasma adrenal androgens of patients and on the human prostate adenocarcinoma cell lines pc-3 , du 145 and lncap-fgc . five cancer patients treated with suramin had an approximate 40 % decline in circulating androstenedione , dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels . the drug inhibited the colony formation in two of the three cell lines at concentrations clinically achievable in humans without excessive drug-related toxicity . the presence of suramin 300 micrograms . / ml . partially inhibited the growth stimulatory effect of testosterone and basic fibroblast growth factor , but not that of epidermal growth factor . the cellular concentration of suramin following exposure to a single dose increases linearly over time in each of the cell lines with lncap-fgc accumulating the highest levels of the drug ; cellular levels of suramin , not androgen or growth factor sensitivity , correlated with the sensitivity to the drug . the concentrations of prostatic acid phosphatase and prostatic specific antigen released by lncap-fgc cells in cell culture medium declined in the presence of increasing levels of suramin in a manner which exceeded the decrease in cell number . we conclude that suramin , aside from decreasing circulating androgens through its adrenocorticolytic effect , is also capable exerting a direct inhibitory effect on cell proliferation of prostate cancer cells , and interfere at a cellular level with the growth stimulatory effects of exogenous testosterone and basic fibroblast growth factor . 
acute and chronic bioeffects of single and multiple doses of piezoelectric shockwaves ( edap lt. 01 ) . piezoelectric second generation lithotriptors are an established means of administering extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy ( eswl ) enabling treatment to be performed without anaesthesia or analgesia , but higher shockwave doses and multiple or staged treatment are frequently required . the bioeffects of this modality of eswl , therefore , require further assessment . seven experimental groups of adult male rabbits were treated using the edap lt. 01 in order to determine the acute and chronic bioeffects of clinical dose , excess dose , divided excess dose , high frequency and multiple treatment ( x10 ) piezoelectric shockwaves ( psw ) . renal function was measured before and after treatment using mercaptoacetyltriglycine ( mag 3 ) scans . gross and histological morphological changes were assessed at one and 30 days following application of psw . application of single clinical dose psw was not associated with any significant functional or morphological renal injury . excess dose psw caused transient gross renal contusion , which resolved in the majority of animals with no persistent microscopic abnormality . divided excess dose psw resulted in no gross or microscopic damage . high frequency psw was associated with mild histological abnormality . multiple psw treatments caused small discrete fibrotic lesions in all cases , without any change in renal function . 
influence of age and endocrine factors on the volume of benign prostatic hyperplasia . to determine whether endocrine factors influence the volume of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( bph ) , 23 hormonal factors were measured in the serum of 64 men ages 42 to 71 years with low volume prostatic cancer and these levels were correlated with the volume of benign hyperplastic tissue in their radical prostatectomy specimens . with age there was a significant increase in the volume of bph . also with age there was a significant decrease in the serum levels of free testosterone , androstenedione , dehydroepiandronsterone ( dha ) , dehydroepiandronsterone sulphate ( dha-s ) , delta 5-androstenediol , and 17-hydroxypregnenolone , and a significant increase in sex hormone-binding globulin ( shbg ) , lh , and fsh . when bph volume and hormone levels were corrected for age , bph volume correlated positively with free testosterone , estradiol , and estriol . these data indicate that with age patients with larger volumes of bph have higher serum androgen and estrogen levels suggesting that serum androgen and estrogen levels may be factors in the persistent stimulation of bph with age . if so , therapeutic attempts at lowering plasma testosterone levels , reducing estrogen levels , or blocking androgenic stimulation through other mechanisms may interfere with the progression of bph with age . conversely , the fact that androgen production declines gradually with age may explain the observation that only 20 to 30 % of men who live to age 80 require surgical treatment for urinary obstruction from bph . 
obstruction and recanalization of the ureter during embryonic development . major controversies still exist regarding the terminology , the etiology and the pathogenesis of congenital obstructive diseases of the ureter . to try to provide some additional information to this controversial subject , a comparative study of ureteral development in rat and human embryos , using light and electron microscopy , has been performed . during fetal development we observed and demonstrated the existence of obstructive phenomena , both at the level of the ureterovesical junction ( chwalla 's membrane ) and along the ureter . at the end of the embryonic period , the ureter undergoes a physiologic recanalization process . 
expression of c-erbb-2 gene product in urinary bladder cancer . expression of the c-erbb-2 gene product and the epidermal growth factor receptor ( egf-r ) was investigated in 54 cases of human bladder cancer immunohistologically and by western blot analysis . for detection of the c-erbb-2 product , two specific antibodies , a rabbit polyclonal antibody directed to the intracellular domain and a murine monoclonal antibody recognizing an epitope in the extracellular domain , were used . seventeen cases of bladder cancer were stained by the anti-c-erbb-2 polyclonal antibody , while 20 cases were stained by the monoclonal antibody , with good correlation on both stainings ( p less than 0.01 ) . there were four c-erbb-2 positive cases in 26 g1 tumors , four in 15 g2 tumors , and nine in 13 g3 tumors . there were also eight erbb-2 positive cases in nine muscle-invasive tumors , nine of 45 superficial tumors , four of five with lymph node metastasis , and seven of 14 without metastasis , as revealed by staining with the polyclonal antibody . thus , the c-erbb-2 gene product was more frequently expressed in high grade tumors ( p less than 0.01 ) , in high stage tumors ( p less than 0.01 ) , and nodal metastatic tumors ( n.s. by chi-square test ) . twenty-two of the 54 tumors were stained by an anti-egf-r monoclonal antibody , 528 igg . the expression of egf-r was independent of histological grading , tumor stage , and nodal status , and no correlation was observed between expression of the c-erbb-2 product and egf-r . the c-erbb-2 product may be applicable as a tumor marker for evaluation of malignant potential , invasiveness , and probably metastatic potential of human bladder cancer . 
color doppler ultrasound compared to a radionuclide scanning of spermatic cord torsion in a canine model . high resolution color doppler ultrasound can simultaneously display blood flow superimposed on detailed gray scale anatomic images . using a single-blind study design , nine adult male dogs underwent intravaginal spermatic cord torsion and subsequent evaluation with technetium 99m-pertechnetate radionuclide , and color doppler ultrasound imaging techniques . torsions of 90 to 720 degrees were created surgically , followed by examination with each modality at one hour ( four animals ) , and four hours ( five animals ) following the procedure . testicular torsion was diagnosed if perfusion was absent or markedly diminished on color doppler imaging or radionuclide scan . in all cases of 360 degrees or greater , torsion was diagnosed by either modality at both one and four hour time delays . if observers did not diagnose torsion , they were asked to assess the relative testicular perfusion . color doppler ultrasound and radionuclide scanning were without error in correctly detecting a relative decrease in perfusion in each of these instances . furthermore , color doppler imaging with spectral analysis was able to detect an enhancement of the diastolic component of the arterial signal at 180 degrees of torsion . this spectral pattern coupled with a relative decrease in blood flow allowed presumptive diagnosis at one hour of partial torsion that was subsequently apparent as absent perfusion only after 4 hours on radionuclide and repeat color doppler ultrasound . color doppler ultrasound proved to be superior to radionuclide scanning in detecting diminished perfusion in this experiment . the detailed information provided by spectral and anatomic display with color doppler ultrasound recommends it for the evaluation of acute scrotal pathology of uncertain etiology . 
coronary artery bypass operation in dialysis patients . to analyze the short - and long-term morbidity and mortality among maintenance dialysis patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass operations , we identified 25 such patients at the mayo clinic and three recently published large single-center studies that provided sufficient detail for meaningful comparison . two independent observers reviewed the new information with regard to pertinent historical , clinical , and laboratory data . the perioperative mortality was 20 % . among the perioperative survivors , 1 - and 2-year survival rates were 95 % and 77 % , respectively . the 3-year actuarial survival was 70 % . uniformly , the symptoms diminished , and the need for antianginal medication was decreased . in the three other large published series , the perioperative mortality ranged from 3 to 20 % , and coronary artery bypass performed earlier after the onset of the symptoms seemed to result in a lower perioperative mortality . we conclude that elective coronary artery bypass in dialysis patients is associated with acceptable short-term morbidity and mortality and effective relief of symptoms . surgically treated patients may have a survival advantage . thus , we advocate aggressive early investigation and surgical treatment of these patients . 
urinary sediment changes in severe preeclampsia . we analyzed the urinary sediment of 30 patients with severe preeclampsia every 4 hours during early labor , delivery , and the postpartum period . fifteen normal control patients were also followed in a similar fashion . no casts were noticed in the urine samples of the control group . however , the urinary sediment of preeclamptic patients revealed the same uniform pattern regardless of the state of coagulation , or the presence or absence of oliguria or eclamptic seizures . numerous granular and hyaline casts , red-cell , and tubular cell casts were identified during microscopic evaluation . these data reflect both glomerular and tubular damage in preeclampsia . we conclude that urinary sediment analysis in severe preeclampsia uniformly reflects renal parenchymal damage and does not correlate with or predict the clinical course of the disease . 
bladder training in older women with urinary incontinence : relationship between outcome and changes in urodynamic observations . the purpose of this study was to clarify the mechanism by which bladder training affects urinary incontinence . urodynamic data and specific urodynamic diagnoses of 108 women with urinary incontinence were compared before and 6 months after treatment with bladder training . before treatment , 76 women had sphincteric incompetence , 11 had detrusor instability , and 16 had both . after treatment , 33 women no longer fulfilled the urodynamic diagnostic criteria for either sphincter or detrusor dysfunction . controlling for severity before treatment , the number of incontinent episodes post-treatment was not associated with change in urodynamic diagnosis . only the first sensation to void , voided volume , compliance , functional urethral length , and flow time showed any significant changes between pre - and post-treatment evaluations ; however , none were correlated with change in the number of incontinent episodes . bladder training does not appear to affect lower tract urodynamic variables or specific urodynamic diagnosis , and it is likely that its mechanism of action reflects adaptive behavioral changes . physiologic changes not detected with techniques and/or criteria used in this study may still occur . 
clinical features and natural history of von hippel-lindau disease the clinical features , age at onset and survival of 152 patients with von hippel-lindau disease were studied . mean age at onset was 26.3 years and 97 per cent of patients had presented by aged 60 years . retinal angioma was the first manifestation in 65 patients ( 43 per cent ) , followed by cerebellar haemangioblastoma ( n = 60 , 39 per cent ) and renal cell carcinoma ( n = 15 , 10 per cent ) . overall , 89 patients ( 59 per cent ) developed a cerebellar haemangioblastoma , 89 ( 59 per cent ) a retinal angioma , 43 ( 28 per cent ) renal cell carcinoma , 20 ( 13 per cent ) spinal haemangioblastoma and 11 ( 7 per cent ) a phaeochromocytoma . renal , pancreatic and epididymal cysts were frequent findings but their exact incidence was not accurately assessed . mean age at diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma ( 44.0 + / - 10.9 years ) was significantly older than that for cerebellar haemangioblastoma ( 29.0 + / - 10.0 years ) and retinal angioma ( 25.4 + / - 12.7 years ) . the probability of a patient with von hippel-lindan disease developing a cerebellar haemangioblastoma , retinal angioma or renal cell carcinoma by age 60 years was 0.84 , 0.7 and 0.69 , respectively . a comprehensive screening protocol for affected patients and at-risk relatives is presented , based on detailed analysis of age at onset data for each of the major complications . median actuarial survival was 49 years , with renal cell carcinoma the leading cause of death . 
parathyroidectomy in chronic renal failure : a nine-year follow-up study . seventy-three patients with chronic renal failure who underwent parathyroidectomy between march 1978 and april 1987 were reviewed . thirty-four patients had undergone sub-total parathyroidectomy , and 39 patients had undergone total parathyroidectomy with parathyroid autograft into the forearm . eight patients showed persistent hyperparathyroidism requiring a second surgical procedure . in all other patients there was highly statistical improvement in parathyroid hormone , total calcium , ionized calcium , alkaline phosphatase and a significant reduction in calcium x phosphate product . histological evidence of osteitis fibrosa was present in 21 of 22 patients before surgery . postoperatively , four showed complete resolution and improvement . three patients developed histological evidence of osteomalacia during the study period . only four of the 39 patients who underwent total parathyroidectomy with autograft had true recurrent hyperparathyroidism and only two of the 34 patients who underwent sub-total parathyroidectomy had recurrent disease , indicating that there is little to choose between the two techniques in the control of secondary hyperparathyroidism and its subsequent recurrence . in one patient with recurrence of hyperparathyroidism from a forearm parathyroid graft the histological picture was different from that of normal hyperplastic parathyroid tissue . although it is probable that abnormal parathyroid tissue had been implanted there was no evidence of invasive growth into the forearm muscle . the most striking feature of long term follow-up was the difference in calcium x phosphate product in patients in whom vascular calcification increased compared to those patients with no change or regression of calcification . mean calcium phosphate product in those patients with progressive vascular calcification was 4.93 for small and medium size vessels and 5.38 for large vessels compared to 4.10 for small and medium vessels and 4.09 for large vessels . in the former case the serum phosphate was 2.00 and 2.17 as compared to 1.75 or 1.73 , suggesting that the aim in patients with end stage renal failure maintained by dialysis should be to control the serum phosphate concentration to 1.8 mmol or less and the calcium x phosphate product to less than 4.2 . 
factors related to treatment resistance in hypertension . hypertension which is resistant to treatment carries a relatively bad prognosis . factors associated with treatment resistance were examined in a case-control study in a hospital hypertension clinic . patients with resistant hypertension had more severe hypertension and more frequently had evidence of end-organ damage on presentation to the clinic . the prevalence of accelerated phase hypertension , renovascular disease and impaired renal function was also higher in these patients . cigarette smoking , and the combination of cigarette smoking and heavy caffeine use , were greater in patients with resistant hypertension . resistant hypertension did not appear to be associated with older age , obesity , regular alcohol use , various psychological factors or non-compliance . these findings support an aggressive investigation policy in resistant hypertension , and underline the harmful effects of cigarette smoking to hypertensive subjects . 
treatment of renal cell carcinoma by extracorporeal partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic vascular anastomosis . a patient with large left lower pole renal cell carcinoma in a solitary kidney is presented . the patient was treated by partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation using splenic arterial and venous anastomoses . the potential for reducing operative morbidity compared with autotransplantation to the iliac fossa is discussed . 
effects of pentoxifylline on proteinuria in normotensive patients with diabetes mellitus . in 1985 , investigators reported that four months of pentoxifylline therapy resulted in a significant decrease in proteinuria ( 46 percent reduction ) and plasma fibrinogen concentrations ( 18 percent reduction ) in patients with diabetes . our study evaluated four normotensive patients with diabetes and documented proteinuria who were treated with pentoxifylline 400 mg tid for four months . a consistent decrease in proteinuria ( as measured by the urine protein/creatinine ratio ) and plasma fibrinogen concentrations was not observed . therapy with pentoxifylline was discontinued after four months . 
adipose tissue fatty acid composition and its relations to diet and plasma lipid concentrations in hemodialysis patients . adipose tissue fatty acid composition , serum lipid profile , and dietary intake of 37 patients on maintenance hemodialysis were studied . in august 1982 , 1984 , and 1986 , analyses were carried out in 15 normotriglyceridemic ( ntg ) and 22 hypertriglyceridemic ( htg ; type iv hyperlipidemia ) patients . no correlations were found between dietary intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids ( pufas ) , ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids ( p-s ratio ) , and carbohydrate content on the one hand and serum lipid concentrations on the other in the two groups . adipose tissue linolenic acid correlated negatively with serum cholesterol in both groups . strong correlations were found between dietary intake of pufas and adipose tissue linoleic acid content , between pufas and the double-bond index , between p-s ratio and adipose tissue linoleic acid content , and between p-s ratio and the double-bond index . no significant differences in dietary intake or adipose tissue fatty acid composition were observed between ntg and htg patients . thus , no evidence was found for exogenous dietary influences on serum lipid concentrations . the adipose tissue linoleic acid content did reflect the dietary intake of pufas . 
nephrotic syndrome complicating adenocarcinoma of the lung with resolution after resection . nephrotic syndrome is an uncommon complication of lung cancer . we present a case in which adenocarcinoma was complicated by the nephrotic syndrome , which resolved after resection of the cancer . 
effect of vaginal delivery on the pelvic floor : a 5-year follow-up . we have studied the pelvic floor musculature and its innervation in 14 of 24 ( 58 per cent ) multiparous women who had been recruited into a study of the effect of childbirth on the pelvic floor as part of a prospective investigation that began in 1983 . these 24 women had all delivered by the vaginal route without forceps assistance . five of the 14 had developed clinical symptoms of stress incontinence 5 years later ; two of them had had a further uncomplicated vaginal delivery during this time . there was manometric and neurophysiological evidence of weakness because of partial denervation of the pelvic floor striated sphincter musculature , with pudendal neuropathy , which was more marked in those women with incontinence . these findings provide direct evidence for the hypothesis that pudendal neuropathy due to vaginal delivery persists and may worsen with time . 
the acute and insidious onset of pulmonary metastatic transitional cell carcinoma . transitional cell carcinoma is a common urologic neoplasm . although pulmonary metastases from this tumor are often not appreciated clinically , they are frequently documented in autopsy studies . therefore , the clinical recognition of this condition can be problematic . to illustrate this point , we present three patients with progressive unexplained dyspnea and histories of transitional cell carcinoma . since ineffective and possibly detrimental therapeutic approaches may be initiated , a high index of suspicion for pulmonary metastatic embolization must be maintained . early histologic identification of these metastatic emboli and initiation of effective chemotherapy may prove beneficial for improved quality of life . 
renal effects of cyclosporine . renal dysfunction is a frequent consequence of cyclosporine administration , even when cyclosporine blood concentrations are maintained within proper therapeutic levels . as dermatologic indications for this compound expand , it is important for clinicians to understand the relevant pharmacology and physiology that underlie cyclosporine-induced renal dysfunction . this article reviews the clinical pharmacology of cyclosporine , the principles of renal function testing , and the clinical manifestations of this drug 's effects on the kidney . sudden declines in kidney function , long-term cyclosporine nephrotoxicity , hemolytic-uremic syndrome , and hypertension are discussed from a clinical and experimental standpoint . finally , practical suggestions are provided to aid the dermatologist in managing cyclosporine-treated patients . 
magnetic resonance imaging : a reliable test for the evaluation of proximal atherosclerotic renal arterial stenosis . symptomatic renal artery stenosis is a significant and treatable clinical problem . a reliable and accurate noninvasive method of screening for renal artery stenosis has not yet been found . we used magnetic resonance imaging to study 37 patients who had undergone recent renal angiography . fourteen patients had normal renal arteries by angiography . in 23 patients either unilateral or bilateral stenosis or occlusion was present . the disease process in all patients appeared to be atherosclerosis . the average age of the 37 patients was 68 years . the magnetic resonance scans and angiograms were read independently by two different radiologists , each of whom was blinded to the clinical history and the results of the other study . renal arterial stenoses found on angiogram and magnetic resonance scans were graded as absent ( 0 % to 24 % ) , mild ( 25 % to 49 % ) , moderate ( 50 % to 74 % ) , or severe ( 75 % to 99 % ) . the magnetic resonance imaging results concurred with the angiographic findings in 70 of 77 arteries ( 91 % ) . magnetic resonance imaging predicted the presence of a greater than 50 % stenosis of the renal artery with a sensitivity of 100 % and a specificity of 94 % . magnetic resonance imaging may prove to be the best noninvasive screening test for proximal atherosclerotic renal arterial stenosis . 
maternal outcome after open fetal surgery . a review of the first 17 human cases . a few fetal diseases may benefit from surgical treatment before birth , but hysterotomy and subsequent delivery by cesarean section pose a risk to the otherwise unaffected mother . to assess maternal risk of mortality , morbidity , and reproductive potential after fetal surgery , we reviewed our experience with 17 highly selected women who underwent fetal surgery . fifteen of these procedures were performed for one of two congenital anomalies : severe bilateral hydronephrosis and congenital diaphragmatic hernia . there were no deaths or serious maternal injuries . in the 14 women who continued pregnancy after hysterotomy , uterine irritability and preterm labor were frequent complications , requiring early confinement in most cases . there has been no detectable effect on future fertility , as indicated by eight subsequent normal pregnancies . we conclude that hysterotomy for fetal surgery can be accomplished without unduly endangering the mother 's life or her future reproductive potential . however , morbidity related to premature labor remains a serious problem , and our ability to control uterine contractions after hysterotomy remains the limiting factor in human fetal surgery . 
decreased local toxicity with subcutaneous diamorphine ( heroin ) : a preliminary report . we report the cases of 5 patients who developed severe local toxicity during the subcutaneous administration of morphine sulphate and hydromorphone hydrochloride . all patients required site changes more frequently than once every 24 h due to redness , swelling , or pain while receiving morphine or hydromorphone . all patients showed prolongation in the duration of sites of infusion once an equianalgesic dose of diamorphine hydrochloride ( heroin ) was started . no change in pain control or systemic toxicity was detected with diamorphine . these findings suggest that diamorphine could be a useful alternative for patients who develop severe toxicity to subcutaneous morphine or hydromorphone . 
the bed-wetting child . current management of a frustrating problem . bed-wetting is a frustrating problem experienced by a significant number of children . it is the role of the physician to exclude serious underlying problems and , at the same time , educate the family concerning treatment options that may be best suited to their child . once parents and child have a better understanding of the problem and realize that the outlook for nighttime bladder control is excellent , it is easier to start long-term care . 
infrainguinal revascularization for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . we studied the efficacy of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . the patency of 42 femoropopliteal and femorodistal bypasses , performed for limb salvage in 37 patients with end-stage renal disease , was assessed with doppler ultrasonography and dye tests . patency rates and limb salvage were determined by life-table analysis . average age was 45 years ( range , 28 to 61 years ) ; 23 of the 37 were men . twenty-three patients had diabetes mellitus , and 16 were smokers . bypass procedures were done in 32 instances while the patients were maintained with chronic hemodialysis and in five instances with peritoneal dialysis ; in five instances the patients had had successful renal transplantation . indications for revascularization included pain at rest , nonhealing ulcer , or distal gangrene . femoropopliteal bypass was done in 32 limbs ; 10 were more distal procedures . reversed saphenous vein was the conduit in 30 cases ; prosthetic material was used in the remainder . autogenous material was used in all distal bypasses . four patients required graft revision during the initial hospitalization , but none thereafter . two patients died within the operative period , nine within 18 months of operation . nine major operations were required . three-month cumulative graft patency was achieved in 41 cases and corresponding limb salvage in 33 cases ; 18-month patency was achieved in 34 cases and overall limb salvage in 33 cases . success of limb salvage most closely correlated with preoperative ankle-brachial ratio and level of bypass required . 
human papillomavirus in prostatic cancer : no evidence found by in situ dna hybridization . human papillomavirus has been associated with benign squamous tumors , intraepithelial neoplasia , and invasive squamous cancer . the role of human papillomavirus as the most likely precursor of cervical dysplasia is well studied . we know of no available information as to the possible role of human papillomavirus in prostatic hyperplasia and cancer . we studied formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues of 20 cases of glandular hyperplasia and 20 cases of prostatic cancer by in situ dna hybridization for human papillomavirus using commercially available biotinylated dna probes detected by an avidin-biotin peroxidase technique . we found no evidence of dna hybridization to human papillomavirus-6 , -11 , -16 , -18 , -31 , -33 , or -35 in prostate tissue . our results show no association between prostatic cancer or hyperplasia and the human papillomavirus genomes that were studied . 
recurrent rhabdomyolysis in association with cocaine use . as the popularity of cocaine increases in our society , so does the frequency and variety of medical complications associated with its use . a growing number of cases have implicated cocaine use in the development of rhabdomyolysis and its complication , acute renal failure . we have reported the first case of recurrent rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure directly associated with cocaine use . although adulterants might cause muscle damage , we believe cocaine should be added to the list of drugs that are capable of producing rhabdomyolysis . 
successful pregnancy in a patient receiving hemodialysis . pregnancy is an unusual occurrence in women with esrd . we report a successful pregnancy in a patient with esrd who was receiving hemodialysis ; she gave birth to a healthy female infant at 34 weeks ' gestational age . we discuss possible physiologic causes of gonadal dysfunction in patients with esrd . 
demonstration of the genuine iso-12p character of the standard marker chromosome of testicular germ cell tumors and identification of further chromosome 12 aberrations by competitive in situ hybridization . the recently developed competitive in situ hybridization ( cish ) strategy was applied to the analysis of chromosome 12 aberrations in testicular germ cell tumors ( tgcts ) . dnas from two rodent-human somatic cell hybrids , containing either a normal chromosome 12 or the p arm of chromosome 12 as their unique human material , were used as probes . our results demonstrate a genuine iso-12p character of the standard marker chromosome in tgcts . moreover , variant markers were identified representing translocation products that also involve chromosome 12 . 
diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis in behcet 's syndrome . renal involvement in behcet 's syndrome is infrequent and the reported cases of glomerulonephritis consisted mainly of patients with focal glomerulonephritis . a patient with behcet 's syndrome and diffuse proliferative sclerosing glomerulonephritis with predominant disposition of igm is described . 
small cell carcinoma of the prostate . this report details clinical and pathologic aspects of a patient with small cell undifferentiated carcinoma of the prostate and systemic hyperglucagonemia . a panel of potential serologic markers was evaluated in order to document additional evidence of ectopic hormonal production . immunocytochemical markers were sought in tissue samples from the primary neoplasm and a lung metastasis . stains were positive for corticotropin ( acth ) and gastrin in both the prostate and in the lung , but no evidence of excess secretion was documented . these findings are consistent with the notion that neuroendocrine activity is common in undifferentiated small cell carcinomas , regardless of their site of origin . 
the long-term effects of radiation therapy on patients with ovarian dysgerminoma . a retrospective chart review and questionnaire study was undertaken to look at the long-term effects of radiation therapy in ovarian dysgerminoma patients . forty-three patients and 55 controls responded to a questionnaire that detailed bowel , bladder , thyroid , menstrual , reproductive , sexual , and growth function . statistically significant differences in the number of bowel movements were noticed when comparing patients with controls . the authors noticed no significant differences between cases and controls in bladder function . no thyroid disorders were attributable to mediastinal radiation therapy . most patients with intact uteri bleed monthly on hormonal replacement . three patients with a remaining ovary and uterus resumed menstrual function after substantial doses of abdominopelvic radiation therapy . no patients have conceived . the authors noticed a slight increase in dyspareunia in the treated group , but most patients were satisfied with their sexual function . one premenarchal patient exhibited a growth disorder . 
expectant management of localized prostatic cancer . seventy-five patients with clinical stage b histologically proven prostatic cancer accumulated over a 40-year period and receiving no therapy for at least 1 year after histologic diagnosis were retrospectively reviewed . twenty-nine patients had stage b1 lesions , 37 had b2 , and nine had b3 lesions ; median follow-up for these patients was 124 , 120 , and 96 months , respectively . five ultimately received pelvic lymph node dissection with iodine-125 implantation , 23 had transurethral resection of the prostate , and 18 had endocrine therapy . of those tumors which progressed , 18 of 19 ( 95 % ) b1 , 26 of 29 ( 90 % ) b2 , and four of four ( 100 % ) b3 lesions demonstrated local progression first . six of 29 ( 21 % ) b1 , 17 of 37 ( 46 % ) b2 , and two of nine ( 22 % ) b3 tumors developed recognized distant metastasis . actuarial survival at 15 years was 67 % , 39 % , and 63 % for patients with b1 , b2 , and b3 lesions , respectively . these data indicate the varied and potentially protracted course of patients with clinical stage b prostatic cancer . 
prostate cancer : transrectal ultrasound and pathology comparison . a preliminary study of outer gland ( peripheral and central zones ) and inner gland ( transition zone ) cancer . a study was conducted to compare results of transrectal ultrasound with pathologic findings on 116 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy for treatment of prostate cancer . in 96 % ( 111 of 116 ) , transrectal ultrasound guided biopsies of a hypoechoic lesion proved cancer ; seven patients had known stage a cancer ; one patient had cancer detected by palpation and not detected by ultrasound . cancers in the outer gland ( peripheral and central zones ) were compared with cancers in the inner gland ( transition zone ) by both ultrasound and pathology . forty-eight percent ( 52 of 108 ) of cancers originating in the outer gland showed extraprostatic extension ( stage c disease ) . the primary sites of tumor escape from the outer gland were the prostatic capsule ( 38 % ) , anterior fibromuscular stroma ( 5 % ) , seminal vesicle ( 18 % ) , the base of the gland at the neurovascular bundle ( 21 % ) , and the apex ( 31 % ) . twenty-two percent ( 17 of 54 ) of cancers originating in the inner gland ( transition zone ) showed extraprostatic extension ( stage c disease ) . the primary sites of tumor escape from the inner gland were the anterior fibromuscular stroma ( 6 % ) and apex ( 11 % ) . both histologic and biologic differences between outer and inner gland cancers were found when tumor size was controlled . gleason scores were significantly different for inner and outer gland cancers , with mean scores of 6.2 + / - 1.6 and 7.4 + / - 0.9 , respectively . an odds ratio of 8.6 confirmed the increased risk of extraprostatic extension for outer gland cancer . outer gland cancers showed increased aggressive behavior of both histologic and biologic nature . the difference in biologic aggressiveness of outer and inner gland cancers has definite implications for treatment options . use of other diagnostic parameters , such as dna ploidy , may help to determine which cancers to treat and when to treat them ; this may have more relevance for cancers originating in the inner gland . strategic transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy affords accurate tumor mapping and staging when modes of internal spread and escape of cancer from both outer and inner gland are known . thus , transrectal ultrasound may be our " window of observation " through which additional research may explain the histologic and biologic discrepancies between outer and inner gland cancers . 
oncologic imaging . staging and follow-up of renal and adrenal carcinoma . computed tomography ( ct ) has emerged from the 1980s to play a dominant role in the pretreatment staging of renal and adrenal carcinomas . for detection , definition ( staging ) , and determination of resectability or recurrence , ct with intravenous contrast enhancement , and more recently , magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) with gadolinium-dtpa , may be the only cross-sectional imaging studies required before institution of appropriate therapy . carcinoma of the kidney is frequently diagnosed by serendipity or detected on incidental ultrasound or ct examinations . real-time ultrasound and color flow doppler offer unique information on tumor vascularity and major venous vascular involvement . positive predictive values of 96 % can be achieved for the diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma using contrast-enhanced ct scanning . for follow-up ct and mri are the best imaging techniques for evaluation of the retroperitoneum . mri may distinguish tumor recurrence from fibrosis in selected cases . because primary neoplasms of the adrenal gland are rare and often exceed 10 cm at the time of initial diagnosis , the functional nature ( endocrine ) of adrenal carcinoma may be part of the clinical presentation . because initial stage is critical to survival and extent of surgical therapy , a knowledge of tumor classification is essential to the optimal diagnostic evaluation . newer imaging tests , ct and mri , have superseded conventional urography , ultrasound , and radionuclide studies for the diagnosis and staging of adrenal cancer . early diagnosis and low stage at presentation are critical to survival in patients with adrenal carcinoma . the current concepts for pretreatment imaging evaluation and the role of ct , mri , and ultrasound are outlined . an oncologic imaging approach based on tumor staging and classification for patients with real or suspected renal cell carcinoma and adrenal carcinoma is essential to optimal patient care . 
induction of cytotoxicity of the renal hilar lymph nodes by pedal subcutaneous administration of interleukin-2 in patients with renal cancer . the authors attempted to increase the cytotoxicity of the renal hilar lymph nodes in ten patients with renal cell carcinoma by administration of recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) into the subcutaneous tissue of the instep . a total of 5000 to 21,000 units was given over 3 to 12 preoperative days . mononuclear cells separated from the lymph nodes excised from the renal hilum at surgery served as the effector cells . fresh autologous tumor cells and three cultured cell lines , k562 , raji , and achn , served as the target cells . cytotoxicity was measured by a chromium-releasing assay . the results showed that the mononuclear cells from the lymph nodes of the patients given il-2 became cytotoxic to all target cells . surface markers of lymphocytes in the lymph nodes were unchanged . peripheral blood lymphocytes showed increased cytotoxicity only against raji cells . adverse effects were mild or moderate and included local redness , high fever , liver dysfunction , and toxic erythema . 
fibrin formation on vessel walls in hyperplastic and malignant prostate tissue . to explore mechanisms of coagulation activation in adenocarcinoma of the prostate , the occurrence and distribution of components of coagulation and fibrinolysis pathways in situ were studied by means of immunohistochemical techniques applied to frozen sections of fresh malignant and benign hyperplastic prostatic tissue obtained at transurethral resection . fibrinogen was distributed throughout the perivascular and tumor connective tissue in both malignant and benign disease but was not present in adjacent areas of normal prostate . antibodies specific for fibrin and d-dimer crosslink sites stained vascular endothelium focally in both malignant and benign tissues . both neoplastic cells and benign hyperplastic glandular epithelial cells stained weakly and in a patchy distribution for tissue factor and focally for low-molecular-weight urokinase-type plasminogen activator . focal staining of vascular endothelium was also observed for tissue plasminogen activator and plasmin-antiplasmin complex neoantigen . by contrast , no tissue staining was observed for factor vii , factor x , factor xiii " a " subunit , high-molecular-weight urokinase-type plasminogen activator , plasminogen activator inhibitors 1 to 3 , protein c , and protein s. thus , the similarity in findings between benign hyperplastic and neoplastic prostate tissue , the lack of either an intact tumor cell-associated coagulation pathway or fibrin formation , and the presence of fibrin on vascular endothelium are consistent with the concept that coagulation activation in prostatic cancer may not be due to a direct effect of the tumor cells on the clotting mechanism . rather , such activation may be induced by a soluble tumor product that activates procoagulant activity on certain host ( for example , vascular endothelial ) cells . these findings , together with the lack of effect of warfarin anticoagulation on the clinical course of patients with prostatic cancer , contrast with findings in certain other tumor types and suggest that coagulation activation may not contribute to progression of adenocarcinoma of the prostate . 
association of expression between n-myc gene and major histocompatibility complex class i gene in surgically resected human neuroblastoma . amplification of the n-myc gene in neuroblastoma correlates with advanced stage and poor prognosis . association of the expression between n-myc and major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class i genes in 33 neuroblastomas obtained from japanese children was investigated . amplification of the n-myc gene was observed in two of five cases in stage iii , six of 11 cases in stage iv , and one of five cases in stage iv-s . in each case , the expression of n-myc gene was significantly increased . the expression was also increased in cases without amplification of the n-myc gene , the origin being from the suprarenal region . expression of the mhc class i gene was significantly decreased in five of these nine with a high level of n-myc expression with amplification . these results suggest that the down-modulation of the mhc class i expression may be associated with the high level of expression and amplification of n-myc gene in the advanced stage of neuroblastoma . 
transurethral-resection zone prostate cancer detected at cystoprostatectomy . a detailed histologic analysis and clinical implications . the authors identified incidental adenocarcinoma of the prostate in serial cross-sections of prostates from 61 of 100 patients having cystoprostatectomy for bladder cancer . in 20 patients , cancer foci were in the prostatic region accessible to transurethral resection ( tur ) . eight of these 20 patients had stage a1 disease ( less than or equal to 3 foci ) ; in six of these patients all foci were located at or within the transition-zone boundary only . twelve patients had stage a2 disease ( greater than 3 foci ) ; in none were more than three foci at or within the transition-zone boundary . among the 20 patients , 84 tumor foci were distributed as follows : 62 % in the peripheral zone , 10 % in the transition zone , 3 % in the central zone , and 25 % in the transition zone boundary . the authors ' data suggest that stage a prostate cancer , like larger clinically detectable cancers , is multifocal , multizonal , and similarly distributed with respect to the urethra . no case of stage a1 disease would have been reclassified as stage a2 by repeat tur of the entire transition zone and transition zone boundary . the authors ' results confirm those of previous studies that report a high incidence of residual carcinoma in regions not accessible to tur in patients with presumptive stage a1 disease and suggest that ultrasonography and ultrasonographically guided biopsies , rather than repeat tur , may more accurately define the extent of stage a disease in some patients . 
serous papillary adenocarcinoma of the tunica vaginalis of the testis with metastasis . testicular or paratesticular neoplasms that resemble the common epithelial type of ovarian tumor are quite rare . the authors report the case of a 29-year-old man with a metastatic serous papillary adenocarcinoma arising from the tunica vaginalis . to the authors ' knowledge , this is the first reported case of a serous carcinoma of the tunica vaginalis behaving in a malignant fashion . the fact that clinically apparent metastatic disease occurred 4 years after initial presentation suggests that development of metastases is a late event . unfortunately , the tumor has been refractory to therapy with chemotherapeutic agents with activity against ovarian malignancies . 
inotropic response to norepinephrine is augmented early and maintained late in conscious dogs with perinephritic hypertension . we studied the inotropic responses to intravenous infusions of norepinephrine in nine conscious chronically instrumented dogs before and early ( 2-4 weeks ) in the development of perinephritic hypertension ; seven conscious dogs were studied later ( approximately 14 weeks ) , during a more stable phase of hypertension . perinephritic hypertension was associated with a 24 % increase in left ventricular ( lv ) mass during developing hypertension ; no further increase was seen during the stable hypertension phase . lv end-systolic stress was increased early ( p less than 0.01 ) but was normalized later . the lv end-systolic stress-volume relation demonstrated an enhanced contractile response to norepinephrine during developing hypertension , which returned toward control later in the course of stable hypertension . the lv dp/dt responses to norepinephrine ( 0.4 microgram/kg/min ) were significantly greater during developing hypertension ( 7,509 + / - 337 mm hg/sec , p less than 0.05 ) compared with the control period ( 4,737 + / - 286 mm hg/sec ) and returned toward the control value during stable hypertension ( 5,168 + / - 465 mm hg/sec ) . the enhanced inotropic responses to norepinephrine in developing hypertension were preserved in the presence of ganglionic blockade , suggesting that the augmentation was not mediated via reflex mechanisms . these physiological responses were associated with an increase in beta-adrenergic receptor density , but no significant change in basal or maximal adenylate cyclase stimulation occurred during developing hypertension . thus , in contrast to prior studies in anesthetized animals , the inotropic response to beta-adrenergic stimulation is not depressed in conscious dogs but is enhanced selectively during the development of hypertension and maintained during stable hypertension . 
changes in diastolic cardiac function in developing and stable perinephritic hypertension in conscious dogs . the effects of developing perinephritic hypertension ( 2-3 weeks ) and a more stable period of perinephritic hypertension ( approximately 14 weeks ) were examined on indexes of left ventricular ( lv ) diastolic function in conscious , chronically instrumented dogs . the complete period of diastole was studied using indexes of isovolumic relaxation ( tau ) , early filling ( lv + dd/dt ) , and stiffness ( myocardial stiffness and chamber stress/diameter ratio ) . during developing hypertension , increased lv end-diastolic pressure , lv end-diastolic stress , peak filling rate , myocardial stiffness , and the stress/diameter ratio increased ( p less than 0.05 ) ; the time constant tau was not changed . these changes were associated with preserved baseline levels of coronary blood flow ( radioactive microspheres ) but an impaired coronary vasodilator response to adenosine . acute administration of phenylephrine in the normotensive dogs caused increases in systolic and diastolic stress and resulted in increases in myocardial stiffness and in the stress/diameter ratio similar to values observed in developing hypertension . during stable hypertension , lv end-diastolic stress , peak filling rate , and both parameters of late-diastolic function ( myocardial stiffness and stress/diameter ratio ) returned toward control values , but the isovolumic relaxation time constant was increased . quantitative histological evaluation revealed no increase in stainable connective tissue in dogs with stable hypertension compared with control dogs , and hydroxyproline concentration was not increased in the subendomyocardium , midmyocardium , or subepimyocardium of the dogs with chronic perinephritic hypertension . thus , in developing hypertension , major alterations in diastolic function were observed that were not structurally related , since these changes 1 ) could be induced in normal dogs by increasing preload and afterload acutely with phenylephrine and 2 ) were improved during the ensuing stable period of hypertension . 
results and complications of angioplasty in fibromuscular disease . percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( pta ) was used to treat 66 patients with 85 renal artery stenoses due to fibromuscular dysplasia . the hypertension was refractory to medical management in 46 patients , and the initial success rate was 100 % . clinical follow-up has been obtained in all patients , who were followed for as long as 121 months . the recurrence rates were 8 % of lesions and 10 % of patients . cumulative patency rate predicted for 10 years was 87.07 % . the mean systolic pressure decreased by 52 mm hg and the mean diastolic pressure decreased by 35 mm hg in response to treatment . twenty-six patients ( 39 % ) were cured , 39 ( 59 % ) were classified as improved , and one ( 2 % ) did not respond to pta . fourteen of the patients also had elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels . renal function was improved in 86 % of the patients and stabilized in 14 % of the patients . analysis of the long-term results suggests that pta should be the initial treatment for choice of patients with fibromuscular dysplasia in the renal arteries . 
management of renovascular disease . a surgical perspective . the role of surgical revascularization in the management of patients with renal artery disease has changed in recent years . this has occurred due to the advent of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty as an effective method of treatment for certain patients , improved results of surgical revascularization in older patients with atherosclerosis , an enhanced appreciation of advanced atherosclerotic renal artery disease as a correctable cause of renal failure , and the development of more effective surgical techniques for patients with severe aortic atherosclerosis and branch renal artery disease . surgical revascularization is currently the treatment of choice for patients with branch renal artery disease , ostial atherosclerotic renal artery disease , a renal artery aneurysm , and patients in whom renal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty has been unsuccessful . excellent clinical results continue to be achieved with surgical revascularization in properly selected patients . 
abnormal renal glucose handling in x-linked hypophosphataemic mice . 1 . the renal handling of glucose was determined in male x-linked hypophosphataemic ( hyp/y ) mice and in control littermates ( + / y ) aged 4 months . plasma glucose concentration and urinary glucose excretion were measured before and during stepwise increase in glycaemia induced by an acute infusion of glucose . the relationship between plasma glucose concentration and urinary glucose excretion was monitored per ml of glomerular filtrate in mice fed high and low phosphate diets . 2 . hyp/y mice fed the high phosphate diet showed a significantly higher glucosuria compared with + / y littermates . when glycaemia was increased , hyp/y mice developed frank glucosuria earlier than + / y animals . in hyp/y mice we could not find a threshold below which virtually no glucose was excreted in the urine , whereas this was clearly visible in + / y mice . these differences persisted in animals fed the low phosphate diet . 3 . using the acute response to the glucoregulatory hormones , glucagon and insulin , administered exogenously , we found that the regulation of plasma glucose concentration did not differ between hyp/y and + / y mice . 4 . the significantly lower plasma glucose concentration observed in hyp/y as compared with + / y mice decreased further during fasting . 5 . we conclude that the renal reabsorptive capacity for glucose is defective in hyp/y mice and their low plasma glucose concentration may be explained by the renal leak . therefore the x-linked phosphataemic mouse appears not only to be characterized by a defect in renal phosphate and calcium reabsorption but also by an altered glucose reabsorption . 
the role of lasers in hemorrhoidectomy . eighty-eight patients who received treatment for hemorrhoids were randomized into two groups . group a received the nd-yag laser phototherapy for internal hemorrhoid combined with the co2 laser for external hemorrhoid . group b was treated with closed ferguson hemorrhoidectomy . the need of narcotic injections for pain relief was 11 percent in group a vs. 56 percent in group b ( p less than 0.001 ) . the incidence of postoperative urinary retention was 7 percent in group a , vs. 39 percent in group b ( p less than 0.05 ) . no enema was required postoperatively in group a , vs. 9 percent in group b ; 84 percent of the patients in group a were discharged on the second postoperative day , vs. 83 percent of the patients in group b discharged on the fifth postoperative day . the cost was 20 percent less in the former group . the overall complications in both groups were insignificant in difference , except prolonged wound healing in group a was noted . one year follow-up showed satisfactory results . laser treatment is considered one of the alternatives to conventional treatment , but the surgeon needs to be aware of laser hazards . 
antibiotics : potential hazards to male fertility . individual agents within each of the major classes of antibiotics have been shown to have significant adverse effects on spermatogenesis or spermatozoal function in mammals . for humans , infertility or significant alterations in semen parameters have been well documented for the nitrofurans and for patients on sulfasalazine . other commonly used antibiotics , such as minocycline , have been shown to be toxic to sperm at any concentration . until further information is available , clinicians must keep in mind that treatment with antibiotics may adversely affect the fertility potential of men . it is possible that some classes of antibiotic agents , such as the penicillins or the quinolones , may have minimal effects on male fertility and maintain the clinical efficacy for patients requiring long-term antibiotic suppressive therapy . further investigation is needed into the relative toxicity of antibiotics and the mechanisms by which antibiotics affect spermatogenesis and spermatozoal function . a background of the current state of knowledge regarding the adverse effects of antibiotics on male fertility is presented in this review . 
intraperitoneal insemination in the treatment of male and unexplained infertility . for couples with unexplained or male infertility , intraperitoneal ( ip ) insemination in induced cycles is a method that increases the chance of fertilization . seventy-seven couples with male subfertility were subjected to 120 ip insemination cycles and 31 with unexplained sterility to 44 cycles . as a consequence of the treatment , 23 pregnancies were obtained , with pregnancy rates of 23 % per cycle and 32 % per patient for unexplained infertility and 11 % and 17 % for male subfertility . pregnancy loss rate was quite elevated : 9 clinical abortions and 1 ectopic . intraperitoneal insemination appears to be a relatively noninvasive way to deal with unexplained or male factor infertility , well worth trying before moving on to more invasive and costly approaches , such as gamete intrafallopian transfer or in vitro fertilization . 
risk factors for development of diabetic nephropathy and retinopathy in jewish iddm patients . risk factors associated with diabetic microvascular complications , with special reference to ethnic origin , were looked for in 231 young jewish insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) patients with duration of diabetes greater than or equal to 10 yr . median age at diagnosis of diabetes was 9.2 yr ( range 0.04-26 .2 yr ) , and median duration of the disease was 15.3 yr ( range 10.0-37 .2 yr ) . sixty-three percent of the patients were ashkenazi jews , and 37 % were non-ashkenazi jews . hba1 was evaluated every 3 mo in the last 10 yr of follow-up , and albumin excretion rate was tested in three 24-h urine collections . direct and indirect ophthalmoscopy was performed every year since diagnosis of diabetes , and if retinal pathology was suspected , color photographs were taken . microalbuminuria was detected in 31 % and macroalbuminuria in 7 % of the patients . nonproliferative and proliferative retinopathy was found in 44 and 12 % of the patients , respectively . on logistic regression analysis , two variables were significantly and independently associated with diabetic nephropathy -- non-ashkenazi origin and mean hba1 values over the first 5 of 10 yr of follow-up . variables significantly and independently related to diabetic retinopathy were non-ashkenazi origin , mean hba1 values over the last 10 yr of follow-up , and duration of diabetes . because non-ashkenazi jews in israel are of lower socioeconomic status than ashkenazi jews , we stratified our patients according to their socioeconomic parameters , median hba1 values , and duration of diabetes . non-ashkenazi patients were at a higher risk to develop complications in all strata . 
the renally compromised older hypertensive : therapeutic considerations . although the slow progression of renal insufficiency caused by aging does not usually reach the clinical disease level , nephron loss may be accelerated by the concomitant presence of hypertension and renal artery atherosclerosis . treatment of hypertension and correction of other risk factors promoting atherosclerosis is appropriate in the elderly . consideration should be given to a search for reversible causes of renal functional deterioration in elderly patients , particularly in those with increasingly refractory hypertension . in the uncomplicated elderly hypertensive , renal function appears to be adequately preserved if blood pressure is well controlled , although there may be a subset in whom factors other than blood pressure itself , such as glomerular hemodynamic disturbances , promote progressive renal dysfunction . 
parathyroid function in normocalcemic renal transplant recipients : evaluation by calcium infusion . the extent to which secondary hyperparathyroidism may involute remains poorly defined . renal transplantation offers a clinical situation in which metabolic stimuli for hyperparathyroidism are removed . to examine whether hyperparathyroidism resolves after transplantation , we evaluated 11 renal transplant recipients who had been normocalcemic 6 or more months after transplantation using a sensitive 2-site immunoradiometric assay for intact serum pth . nine of the 11 had pth concentrations within the normal range . of these 9 , 6 were found to have abnormal parathyroid function when challenged with an iv calcium infusion . the other 2 patients demonstrated significantly elevated basal pth concentrations and elevated ionized calcium despite normal total serum calcium and albumin concentrations . in both , the pth response to infused calcium was markedly abnormal , confirming hyperparathyroidism . the estimated renal threshold phosphate concentration was low in 4 of 9 patients with normal basal pth concentrations and in both with elevated basal pth . bone mineral density , measured at the radius by single photon absorptiometry and at the spine by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry , was normal in 8 of the 9 transplant recipients who had normal basal pth concentrations . 
macrophages from nephrotic rats regulate apolipoprotein e biosynthesis and cholesterol content independently . the effects of the nephrotic syndrome in rats on the cholesterol content and the biosynthesis of apolipoprotein e ( apoe ) by resident peritoneal macrophages have been investigated . since the nephrotic syndrome has been associated with an increased risk of coronary atherosclerosis , we hypothesized that macrophages from nephrotic rats would accumulate cholesterol and undergo transformation into foam cells , with a concomitant increase in apoe biosynthesis . the nephrotic syndrome was induced in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside . peritoneal macrophages exposed in vivo for 7-21 d to ascites fluid derived from plasma containing sixfold elevations of lipoproteins did not accumulate unesterified or esterified cholesterol . nevertheless , immunoprecipitation assays after incubation of the isolated cells with [ 35s ] methionine , or immunoblot analysis of the incubation medium demonstrated a 2.6-fold increase in apoe secretion compared with normal macrophages . this increase was accompanied by 5 - to 10-fold increases in cellular apoe messenger rna as determined by quantitative solution hybridization assay . peritoneal macrophages cultured from nephrotic rats during the period of hypercholesterolemia also showed distinct and highly reproducible morphologic changes . the dissociation between apoe biosynthesis and macrophage cholesterol content provides new insight into the response of peritoneal macrophages in vivo to endogenous hyperlipemia . 
a randomized comparison of the nephrotoxicity of iopamidol and diatrizoate in high risk patients undergoing cardiac angiography . three hundred seven high risk patients with renal impairment ( serum creatinine greater than or equal to 1.5 mg/dl ) were randomized in a double-blind manner to either iopamidol ( a nonionic , low osmolar radiocontrast agent ) or diatrizoate ( a conventional radiocontrast agent ) at cardiac angiography with subsequent follow-up study of renal function . baseline clinical and angiographic variables were similar in the iopamidol ( n = 155 ) and diatrizoate ( n = 152 ) groups . change in renal function after angiography was less pronounced with iopamidol compared with diatrizoate as measured by mean ( + / - sd ) increase in 24 h serum creatinine ( 0.11 + / - 0.2 versus 0.22 + / - 0.26 mg/dl , p less than 0.001 ) , mean maximal increase in serum creatinine ( 0.2 + / - 0.44 versus 0.38 + / - 0.73 mg/dl , p less than 0.0001 ) and percent of patients with a maximal increase in serum creatinine greater than 0.5 mg/dl ( 8 % versus 19 % , p less than 0.01 ) . such differences could not be documented in diabetic patients using insulin . there was no significant difference between agents in the number of patients developing clinically severe acute renal dysfunction . it is concluded that iopamidol is less nephrotoxic than diatrizoate in high risk patients at cardiac angiography . however , the difference in nephrotoxicity is small , of no major clinical significance in the majority of high risk patients and could not be documented in insulin-using diabetic patients . iopamidol may be the preferred agent in certain patients with advanced renal impairment , but further study is warranted . 
a new syndrome : hearing loss and familial salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone in two brothers . two male siblings presented in infancy with hyponatremia . the levels of plasma renin activity and aldosterone were elevated . sodium supplement was necessary to maintain normal sodium balance . the salivary sodium concentrations were markedly elevated , with sweat sodium levels being in the upper normal range . urinary sodium concentration and renal epithelial exchange between sodium and potassium were normal . this was felt to be due to an autosomal recessive disorder . both siblings were later diagnosed as having a bilateral moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss with intermittent conductive overlay due to middle ear fluid . the sensorineural loss was also felt to be autosomal recessive in origin , but the possibility of a disturbance of sodium balance in the inner ear has been questioned . 
comparison of pump-driven and spontaneous continuous haemofiltration in postoperative acute renal failure . in a comparison of spontaneous continuous arteriovenous haemofiltration ( cavh ) and pump-driven haemofiltration ( pdhf ) for acute renal failure after surgery , 116 patients admitted to a surgical intensive care unit were assigned cavh ( 48 ) or pdhf ( 68 ) . the method of assignment was that a patient was treated by pdhf if he or she was the only patient requiring treatment at that time ( only one pump was available ) ; any other patient coming to the unit would be treated by cavh . the groups were slightly unbalanced because there were fewer simultaneous cases than expected . the main endpoints were survival rate , control of uraemia , and additional application of haemodialysis . there were no differences between the patient groups in age , duration of treatment , severity of illness , serum creatinine concentration at the start of treatment , or cause of acute renal failure . both treatments adequately controlled uraemia and fluid overload . however , the survival rate was significantly higher with pdhf than with cavh ( 6 [ 12.5 % ] vs 20 [ 29.4 % ] ; p less than 0.05 ) . the daily ultrafiltrate volume was significantly higher with pdhf than with cavh ( 15.7 [ 95 % confidence interval 13.6-17 .8 ] vs 7.0 [ 6.6-7 .4 ] l/day ; p less than 0.05 ) . the volume of ultrafiltrate in patients with ischaemic or sepsis-induced acute renal failure was correlated with the survival rate . this finding suggests that the better survival rate in the pdhf group was due to faster elimination of toxic mediators ( of molecular weight 800-1000 daltons ) through the filter membrane by high-volume haemofiltration . 
aggravation of subclinical diabetes insipidus during pregnancy background . transient polyuria and polydipsia during pregnancy are rare , and their cause is not entirely clear . possible explanations include the exacerbation of preexisting abnormalities in the secretion or action of vasopressin and abnormally large increases in plasma vasopressinase activity . methods . we studied two women in whom overt polyuria and polydipsia developed during the third trimester of pregnancy and disappeared after delivery . the secretion and action of vasopressin were studied both when the women had polyuria and polydipsia and later , when their water intake and urine volume were normal . results . one patient had partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus . she had little increase in urine osmolality in response to water deprivation , hypertonic-saline infusion , and vasopressin injection and no response to desmopressin acetate ( 1-deamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin ) during the immediate postpartum period . her basal and stimulated plasma vasopressin concentrations were high ( 16.5 to 203.4 pmol per liter ) before and during hypertonic-saline infusion 30 months post partum . the other patient had partial neurogenic diabetes insipidus . she had subnormal basal plasma vasopressin concentrations , a subnormal increase in the plasma vasopressin level and a subnormal decrease in urine flow in response to the administration of vasopressin , and a normal response to desmopressin . after pregnancy , when her urine volume was normal , she had no increase in plasma vasopressin in response to hypertonic-saline infusion , but she had a normal rise in the plasma vasopressin level and a normal renal response to vasopressin administration . conclusions . pregnancy may unmask subclinical forms of both nephrogenic and neurogenic diabetes insipidus . this exacerbation may result from both increased vasopressinase activity and diminished renal responsiveness to vasopressin . 
aluminum accumulation during treatment with aluminum hydroxide and dialysis in children and young adults with chronic renal disease background . the control of hyperphosphatemia is a major clinical problem in patients with chronic renal failure receiving regular dialysis treatment . despite continuing concern about aluminum toxicity , aluminum-containing antacids are still used in many of these patients as phosphate-binding agents . although maximal acceptable doses of aluminum hydroxide have been recommended , the safety and efficacy of these guidelines have not been evaluated . methods . seventeen children and young adults ( mean [ + / - sd ] age , 14.1 + / - 3.7 years ) undergoing regular peritoneal dialysis were randomly assigned to treatment with either aluminum hydroxide ( n = 7 ; maximal dose , 30 mg per kilogram of body weight per day ) or calcium carbonate ( n = 10 ; dose range , 2.5 to 12 g per day , according to serum phosphorus levels ) . aluminum retention was assessed by serial measurements of plasma aluminum , deferoxamine-infusion tests , and measurements of bone aluminum content during a mean ( + / - sd ) follow-up of 13 + / - 2 months . the evolution of bone disease was also evaluated . results . plasma aluminum levels and the increment in plasma aluminum after infusion of deferoxamine increased from base-line values in the patients treated with aluminum hydroxide , and aluminum-related bone disease developed in one patient . serum phosphorus levels remained higher and serum calcium levels lower in the patients receiving aluminum hydroxide than in those receiving calcium carbonate . the skeletal lesions of secondary hyperparathyroidism improved in 7 of 10 patients receiving calcium carbonate but persisted or progressed in 6 of 7 patients given aluminum hydroxide ( p less than 0.025 ) . conclusions . aluminum hydroxide is less effective than calcium carbonate as a phosphate-binding agent for the control of hyperphosphatemia and is associated with aluminum retention in children and young adults with chronic renal failure who are receiving dialysis therapy . 
simple standing incremental cystometry as a screening method for detrusor instability . one hundred consecutive neurologically normal women complaining of urinary incontinence underwent standing incremental retrograde medium-fill water cystometrograms on two different days followed by sitting and standing continuous retrograde medium-fill water urethrocystometry on a third visit between november 1987 and february 1989 . studies were done to assess the reproducibility , sensitivity , specificity , and predictive values of a simple cystometer . standing incremental , retrograde cystometry was found to be relatively inexpensive , simple , reproducible , and sensitive . the two cystometrograms yielded similar results in 84 % of the patients . the sensitivities were found to be 84.3 and 90.2 % for the first and second cystometrograms , respectively . using both cystometrograms together , we were able to detect detrusor instability with a sensitivity of 92.3 % and to predict its absence with a negative predictive value of 86.7 % . detrusor instability was found in 64 % of these patients . based on these results , it was concluded that when multichannel urodynamics are not available in a high-prevalence population , standing retrograde incremental water cystometry done on two occasions may offer the physician an accurate alternative for the diagnosis of detrusor instability . 
inhibition of growth of experimental prostate cancer with sustained delivery systems ( microcapsules and microgranules ) of the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone antagonist sb-75 . inhibitory effects of the sustained delivery systems ( microcapsules and microgranules ) of a potent antagonist of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone n-ac - [ 3 - ( 2-naphthyl ) - d-alanine1 , 4-chloro-d-phenylalanine2 , 3 - ( 3-pyridyl ) - d-alanine3 , d-citrulline6 , d-alanine10 ] lh-rh ( sb-75 ) on the growth of experimental prostate cancers were investigated . in the first experiment , three doses of a microcapsule preparation releasing 23.8 , 47.6 , and 71.4 micrograms of antagonist sb-75 per day were compared with microcapsules of agonist [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh liberating 25 micrograms/day in rats bearing dunning r3327h transplantable prostate carcinoma . during 8 weeks of treatment , tumor growth was decreased by [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh and all three doses of sb-75 as compared to untreated controls . the highest dose of sb-75 ( 71.4 micrograms/day ) caused a greater inhibition of prostate cancer growth than [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh as based on measurement of tumor volume and percentage change in tumor volume . doses of 23.8 and 47.6 micrograms of sb-75 per day induced a partial and submaximal decrease , respectively , in tumor weight and volume . tumor doubling time was the longest ( 50 days ) with the high dose of sb-75 vs. 15 days for controls . the body weights were unchanged . the weights of testes , seminal vesicles , and ventral prostate were greatly reduced in all three groups that received sb-75 , and testosterone levels were decreased to nondetectable values in the case of the two higher doses of sb-75 . lh levels were also diminished . similar results were obtained in the second experiment , in which the animals were treated for a period of 8 weeks with microgranules of sb-75 . therapy with microgranules of sb-75 significantly decreased tumor growth as measured by the final tumor volume , the percentage change from the initial tumor volume , and the reduction in tumor weight . the results indicate that antagonist sb-75 , released from sustained delivery systems , can produce a state of chemical castration and effectively inhibit the growth of experimental prostate cancers . the efficacy of the antagonist sb-75 in inhibiting androgen-dependent dunning prostatic carcinoma and the absence of side effects suggest its possible usefulness for the treatment of hormone-sensitive tumors . 
increased sensitivity to endotoxemia by tissue necrosis . in this study the interaction of endotoxemia and ischemic organ injury was investigated in a rat model . animals received lipopolysaccharide to induce endotoxemia and were simultaneously subjected to renal ischemia . if only renal ischemia was induced , moderate azotemia occurred and all animals survived . lipopolysaccharide treatment caused neither renal failure nor death . however , rats with both endotoxemia and renal ischemia showed severe azotemia , and 50 % of the animals died within 48 hours . the observed mortality rate is unlikely related to renal failure since animals subjected to bilateral nephrectomy did not die within 48 hours after treatment with lipopolysaccharide . to further exclude the role of renal failure in the enhanced effect of endotoxemia , experiments were performed in which ischemic kidneys were excised from littermates and were placed in the abdomens of lipopolysaccharide-treated animals . a similar effect was observed : 50 % of the animals died within 48 hours . azotemia did not occur . since tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) is an important cytokine involved in endotoxemia-induced morbidity and death , we studied the role of tnf in our model . plasma levels of tnf were increased during endotoxemia . concomitant renal ischemic injury did not influence the concentration of tnf . when animals were treated with recombinant tnf and were subsequently subjected to renal ischemic injury , again a 50 % mortality was observed , a rate similar to that in lipopolysaccharide-treated animals . we conclude that the sensitivity to endotoxemia is enhanced by tissue necrosis and may lead to death in the experimental model used in this study . 
use of cyproterone acetate in prostate cancer . cyproterone acetate is a progestational antiandrogen with potent antigonadotropic activity that results in rapid suppression of serum testosterone . used as a single agent , cyproterone acetate yields a total androgen blockade . it may be combined with low-dose diethylstilbestrol , orchiectomy , or lhrh agonists to improve , in theory , the results of such therapy . in clinical testing , cyproterone acetate has proved equivalent to diethylstilbestrol with markedly less toxicity . it is useful in conjunction with lhrh agonists , either transiently to block the flare phenomenon , or continuously to block peripheral androgen receptors ; the necessity for this latter action has not yet been proved . cyproterone acetate may afford transient objective improvement in patients not responding to other forms of hormone deprivation . experience in this role is limited . the drug may be used to suppress the hot flushes associated with orchiectomy or lhrh agonist therapy . cyproterone acetate induces local tumor regression ; owing to its reversible effects , it is useful as neoadjuvant or adjuvant androgen withdrawal therapy in patients with lower-stage disease undergoing radical surgery or radiotherapy . adverse effects are mostly those related to hormone withdrawal , namely , impotence , infertility , and lassitude . gynecomastia and breast tenderness occur in less than 18 % and cardiovascular complications in approximately 10 % of treated men . 
use of suramin in treatment of prostatic carcinoma refractory to conventional hormonal manipulation . suramin and related compounds , in view of their growth factor and enzyme binding properties , represent in many respects a novel approach to the treatment of cancer . although in this preliminary analysis of suramin use in the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer , the objective response rate does not appear impressive , much work still needs to be done to optimize suramin 's administration to patients and to elucidate its various postulated mechanisms of action . the development of related compounds with more specific enzyme and growth factor antagonist properties is under way . 
hemibody irradiation in advanced prostatic carcinoma . in summary , hemibody irradiation has developed as a safe , efficient technique for palliating multiple sites of symptomatic osseous metastases , which occur so often in advanced prostatic carcinoma . the rapidity , frequency , and duration of pain relief , as well as the convenience to the patient of a solitary treatment to multiple symptomatic areas simultaneously , make this type of treatment especially appealing . by following premedication and radiation dose guidelines , both acute and delayed side effects can be kept tolerable or at a minimal incidence . although sequential hemibody radiation has also been explored as " systemic " therapy , the results in prostatic carcinoma have not proved dramatic , and complications have been considerable . hormonal therapy would certainly seem to be less life-threatening and equally beneficial according to present data . as a palliative treatment , however , hemibody irradiation is a pragmatic option for relieving prostatic cancer pain . 
use of intravenous stilbestrol diphosphate in patients with prostatic carcinoma refractory to conventional hormonal manipulation . the patient presenting with severe bone pain after primary hormonal therapy , with vertebral collapse , or with uremia resulting from ureteric obstruction should be considered for intravenous stilbestrol diphosphate therapy . the urologist can expect early marked improvement in the patients ' mobility and pain , with a reduction in analgesic requirements , from a single 7-day course of treatment . in addition , the drug is inexpensive and free of the side effects commonly associated with cytotoxic therapy . accurate monitoring of the response is possible with serum prostate-specific antigen measurements , which also enable further therapy to be planned efficiently . 
management of spinal cord compression secondary to metastatic prostatic carcinoma . spinal cord or cauda equina compression from prostatic cancer is an oncologic emergency necessitating prompt evaluation and treatment . the strong correlation between pretreatment motor status and treatment outcome underscores the importance of immediate treatment before further neurologic deterioration and before the damage to the spinal cord becomes permanent . patients with known osseous metastases should be alerted by their clinicians to seek medical help within hours should they develop weakness in an extremity . prompt mri of the entire spine should be done prior to treatment . myelography should be reserved for those patients who can not undergo a technically adequate or expeditious mri study . the convenience of mri relative to myelography allows clinicians to diagnose actual or impending spinal cord compression earlier . high-dose steroids ( dexamethasone ) should be instituted immediately , and endocrine therapy should be started if not already in use . ambulatory and moderately paraparetic patients seem best treated initially with radiation alone . immediate surgical decompression should be used in patients with an expected lifespan of at least 6 months who deteriorate during radiation , who have had previous radiation to the involved site , or who have a potentially correctable unstable spine . in addition , paraplegic patients or severely paraparetic patients with recent neurologic deterioration should be treated with immediate surgical decompression if they are judged reasonably able to tolerate the surgery . these patients should then receive postoperative radiation treatment . 
advanced prostatic carcinoma . early versus late endocrine therapy . since the landmark observations of huggins and hodges in 1941 , androgen deprivation has been the mainstay of treatment for advanced-stage prostate cancer . although early , poorly controlled studies suggested enhanced survival with hormonal therapy , this view fell into disfavor as a result of the observations of the first and second vacurg studies . recently , there has been a proliferation of experimental and clinical data supporting early androgen deprivation , including a reanalysis of the vacurg data , which suggests a survival advantage for younger patients with stage d disease and high-grade tumors who undergo androgen-ablative therapy at the time of diagnosis . the risk-benefit analysis presented in this review is strongly supportive of early hormonal therapy . finally , long-term survival of patients with metastatic prostate cancer will require the development of novel treatment strategies effective against androgen-resistant tumor cells and their use in concert with early androgen deprivation . 
treatment of metastatic prostate cancer of the spine . there is a wide spectrum of presentations for prostate cancer metastatic to the spine . important factors are the patient 's age and general health ; the extent and location of spinal involvement ; the patient 's neurologic status and degree of pain ; the relative contribution of a blastic or lytic response ; and the experience and training of the spinal surgeon , medical oncologist , and radiation oncologist . the spine is both a weight-bearing structure and a housing for the spinal cord , and failure to consider both functions may lead to unsatisfactory treatment results . treatment options include hormonal therapy , inhibitors of bone metabolism , glucocorticoid therapy , radiotherapy , halo-vest , surgical debridement , decompression and stabilization , and appropriate pain management and support . one must not lose sight of the fact that the goals are palliation and that ultimate demise is unavoidable in patients with metastatic prostate cancer . 
future developments of nonhormonal systemic therapy for prostatic carcinoma . prostate cancer is the most common type of cancer in men . despite increased public awareness and new screening methods , a significant proportion of men continue to present with metastatic disease . most men will respond initially to hormonal intervention ; however , given time , the majority will have recurrences of hormonally unresponsive tumor on which present therapies have little impact . research continues to identify new cellular and molecular aspects of prostate cancer with implications as possible sites of therapeutic intervention . 
imaging of patients with stage d prostatic carcinoma . in conclusion , it would appear from present evidence that several statements can be made . first , mri is the most accurate method of staging the periprostatic spread of carcinoma . both the prostate and the regional nodes can be evaluated . the role of ultrasound is , at present , unclear . second , the utility of ct has diminished with the emergence of high-quality mri , but in situations in which mri scans are inconclusive ( e.g. , in the assessment of paraaortic node disease , in which images are degraded by peristaltic movement ) , ct may be useful . third , the choice of method for the assessment of nodal disease is a more difficult question . although mri and ct have replaced lymphography in most centers , the latter study , especially when combined with fine-needle aspiration biopsy , still is useful . fourth , bone metastases are best assessed with scintigraphy , which can point to areas requiring supplemental plain radiography . an mri study of the spine , although highly sensitive , is not practical . fifth , mri is superior to ct myelography in assessing spinal disease . finally , the chest radiograph is the mainstay of assessing chest involvement . 
total androgen ablation : canadian experience . a multicenter randomized , double-blind trial comparing total androgen blockade obtained by the use of castration with a pure anti-androgen ( nilutamide ) with simple castration was begun . one hundred and five patients received the combined treatment and 103 the orchiectomy plus placebo . several features were used to evaluate the efficacy . bone pain responded better to combined treatment at 6 months ( p = 0.042 ) . the number of favorable responses , as evaluated by the npcp criteria , was 61 % with simple castration and 78 % with the combined treatment ( p = 0.013 ) . there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups in time to progression ( logrank test p = 0.462 ) or survival ( logrank test p = 0.137 ) despite an increase in median survival of 5.4 months . all other measures showed no difference between the two treatments . with total androgen blockade , 50 % of the patients had disease progression at 1 year , and 45 % were dead at 2 years . a review of the results of similar reported studies suggests no improvement or very modest improvement with total androgen blockade over testicular androgen ablation alone . 
megestrol acetate plus low-dose estrogen in the management of advanced prostatic carcinoma . megestrol acetate plus low-dose estrogen may be an effective , low-cost alternative to pharmacologic or surgical castration plus flutamide in the management of patients with advanced prostate cancer . the potential benefit of combined androgen ablation achieved by any means in comparison with conventional hormonal therapy appears to be limited . 
role of 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors in the treatment of advanced prostatic carcinoma . everything we know about the biology of the prostate supports the concept that dht is the obligate androgen responsible for normal and hyperplastic growth . whether this selectivity is maintained during malignant transformation is unknown . the consistent emergence of androgen-insensitive disease highlights the spectrum of biologic evolution this cancer is capable of . if the tumor is dependent only on dht for neoplastic growth , the unique characteristics of a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor offer several potential actions that warrant a systematic evaluation . 
use of the nonsteroidal anti-androgen casodex in advanced prostatic carcinoma . pure anti-androgens have advantages over steroidal anti-androgens of the cyproterone acetate type in the treatment of patients with advanced prostate cancer because they do not have steroidal side effects or such a marked inhibitory effect on libido . in addition , the long half-life of a pure anti-androgen such as casodex results in maintenance of high serum anti-androgen concentrations , which allays concern over the clinical significance of any small rise in serum testosterone concentrations . the anti-androgen of choice for the treatment of androgen-responsive diseases has yet to be defined . however , this choice should be based on extensive clinical evaluations of a drug as monotherapy . as always , the clinical efficacy and tolerability of the drug will be important factors in determining the anti-androgen of choice ; however , favorable pharmacokinetics should be emphasized in the treatment of a disease in which high and sustained concentrations of antagonist must be present to prevent androgenic stimulation . casodex , a pure anti-androgen with a relatively long half-life , produces objective and subjective responses similar to those of surgical or pharmacologic castration and is well tolerated . its profile makes it a strong candidate for consideration as the future anti-androgen of choice in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer . 
initial results with slightly modified kock pouch . my initial experience with 20 patients undergoing kock pouch continent urinary diversion is reviewed . the procedure has been slightly modified from that described by kock and skinner . all patients have been followed for at least four months ( median , 33 months ) . there have been no early complications related to the pouch . the most significant problem , incontinence , has occurred in 2 patients ( 10 % ) at three and four months , respectively , after surgery . only 1 of these patients required temporary use of an external appliance . leakage was due , in both cases , to a patulous efferent nipple valve . both were repaired by plication of the nipple , and no new efferent limbs were constructed . in 1 patient ( 5 % ) prolapse of the afferent limb associated with reflux and pyelonephritis developed one year post-surgery . stones have developed in 3 patients ( 15 % ) . all patients are currently continent and stone-free , and all are pleased with the result . 
use of standard contraceptive diaphragm in management of stress urinary incontinence . the management of stress urinary incontinence ( sui ) consists of either surgical intervention and/or pharmacologic manipulation . twelve patients with sui were evaluated for management by the use of a fitted standard contraceptive diaphragm . complete resolution of sui was achieved in 11 of 12 patients ( 91 % ) . two of the 12 patients achieved continence but withdrew from the study because of associated discomfort from the diaphragm , therefore , complete resolution of sui was achieved in 9 of 12 patients ( 75 % ) . 
dilated renal collecting systems : differentiating obstructive from nonobstructive dilation using duplex doppler ultrasound . two patients with ileal loop urinary diversions , studied with real-time and doppler sonography ( " duplex sonography " ) of the kidneys , were shown to have dilated intrarenal collecting systems . resistive index measurements calculated from the doppler signal correctly identified obstructive dilatation in 1 case and nonobstructive dilatation in the other . 
association of germ cell tumors and hodgkin 's disease . two patients presented with synchronous hodgkin 's disease and testicular germ cell neoplasms . both patients are in complete remission following treatment with multidrug chemotherapy and radiation therapy . despite epidemiologic similarities between hodgkin 's disease and testicular cancer , only 13 cases of their association in the same patient have been reported in the literature , and in all those instances the tumors occurred metachronously . however , the very rare occurrence of synchronous presentation suggests a possible common pathogenetic factor in our 2 patients . 
coexistence of testicular carcinoma and hairy cell leukemia . the coexistence of two relatively rare disorders in 1 patient often induces speculation about possible cause and effect of these disorders . the suitable therapeutic regimen for both diseases and roentgenologic manifestations are described . 
techniques in endoscopic lithotripsy using pulsed dye laser . the pulsed dye laser represents a new tool in the treatment of ureteral calculi . laser energy channeled through a delicate optical fiber is used to disimpact and fragment calculi . standard ureteroscopic instruments including graspers , baskets and dilatation balloons can be used with the laser system . interchangeable optical fibers ranging from 200 to 400 micrometers deliver up to 120 mj of energy to the stone 's surface . for two weeks in 1989 an endourology clinic was held in upper egypt . eighty patients ranging in age from nine years to sixty-seven years old were evaluated and treated endoscopically . endoscopes ranging from 6.9 f to 12.5 f were used to deliver the optical fiber . all stones visualized endoscopically were fragmented . greater than 60 percent of the stones fragmented were composed of pure calcium oxalate monohydrate . schistosoma hematobium was endemic among our study group . bilharzial strictures of the distal ureter were noted in 30 percent of these patients . treatment of these strictures using both balloon dilatation and graduated teflon dilators is reviewed . techniques in treating different types of ureteral calculi were explored . large calcium oxalate dihydrate stones were treated most efficiently with the 3-point fragmentation technique . the shear off-center technique was used for the calcium oxalate monohydrate calculi . variations in total energy delivered and frequency of pulsation allowed for prompt stone disimpaction as well as prevention of retrograde fragment migration . concurrent use of stone baskets and graspers with the pulsed dye laser was explored . 
bilateral renal cell carcinoma with metastasis to thyroid . a case of bilateral synchronous renal cell carcinomas with metastases to the regional lymph nodes and later to the thyroid gland was treated with aggressive surgical extirpation and adjuvant gamma interferon . the patient continues to have an excellent performance status sixteen months after initial diagnosis despite a large tumor burden at presentation . 
pulmonary embolization of iodine-125 seeds following prostate implantation . the optimal treatment of prostatic carcinoma limited to the gland remains controversial . treatment has included implantation of iodine-125 seeds via both a suprapubic approach and , more recently , a transperineal technique utilizing ultrasound guidance . we recently have noted a heretofore unreported complication with this latter technique , namely , embolization of seeds to the lungs . review of the chest x-ray films of 31 patients who underwent suprapubic implants showed no evidence of this phenomenon . one of 5 patients undergoing transperineal implant was found to have seeds lodged in the lung . complications surrounding the various treatments of localized prostate carcinoma are reviewed . 
multilocular cysts of kidney . a study of 29 patients and review of literature . multilocular renal cyst is a distinct renal tumor whose gross external appearance and absence of normal renal tissue within the septa of loculi distinguish it clearly from other renal cystic lesions . interlocular septa may contain either ( 1 ) fibrous tissue alone or ( 2 ) embryonic tissue separating adjacent loculi . of 29 patients with multilocular renal cysts , 24 underwent a renal-sparing procedure , and only 5 had radical nephrectomy . none of the histologic specimens showed evidence of immature renal tissue or neoplasia . patients were followed from three months to eight years ( mean , 39 months ) , and no evidence of local recurrence or metastatic disease was found . because it is difficult to distinguish multilocular renal cyst from cystic wilms tumor and multicystic clear cell carcinoma on the basis of imaging studies alone , surgical intervention is the only effective method to differentiate multilocular renal cyst from a malignant lesion of the kidney . 
mobile epididymis . a new clinicopathologic entity in genesis of male infertility and its treatment by epididymopexy . mobile epididymis plays an important role in the genesis of male infertility . it constituted 9 percent of a consecutive series of idiopathic infertility . of 200 patients examined ( 100 fertile and 100 infertile ) , mobile epididymis was detected in 9 infertile patients . the clinical picture is characteristic . epididymis is widely separated from testicle and moves freely from side to side . its body and tail are ill formed and the epididymovasal angle is obtuse . azoospermia was persistent in 3 patients and intermittent in 6 patients . testicular biopsy showed tubular dilatation . epididymopexy was performed in the 9 patients to fix the epididymis to testicle : 3 patients showed improvement in semen quality with two resultant pregnancies . failures were due to advanced testicular damage . infertility in mobile epididymis appears to result from obstruction of efferent ductules , testicular ischemia , and/or interference with sperm maturation , transport , or delivery . 
simple urodynamic evaluation of incontinent elderly female nursing home patients . a descriptive analysis . we present a descriptive analysis of the functional , mental , and urodynamic status of a population of incontinent elderly female nursing home patients . one hundred fifty-five intermediate care female patients with a mean age of 85.5 years were identified as being incontinent of urine at least once daily . after urologic evaluation , each patient was classified into one of four categories : incontinence with normal cystometrogram 68 ( 44 % ) , detrusor instability ( di ) 52 ( 34 % ) , stress incontinence ( si ) 27 ( 17 % ) , or overflow incontinence ( oi ) 7 ( 4 % ) . thirteen weeks later , patients were again studied using simple water cystometry . at follow-up evaluation , 45 patients ( 33 % ) had urodynamic findings which differed from the initial evaluation . of these women , 10 with di , 12 with si , and 2 with oi were found to have normal cystometric parameters at the time of follow-up study , while 19 ( 14 % ) who initially had normal cystometric findings had evidence of di ( 11 ) or si ( 3 ) . strong correlation between urinary incontinence in patients with normal cystometric findings and moderate to severe cognitive impairment was present . simple urodynamic evaluation did identify patients with si and oi who might benefit from specific therapy . urodynamic evaluation of incontinent elderly female nursing home patients is indicated and may provide direction for planning treatment strategies . 
intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin for patients with high-risk superficial bladder cancer . intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) was employed in the treatment of 55 patients with aggressive superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder ( cta , ct1 , ctis ) . all of the patients had a previous history of recurrent superficial disease , and 41 ( 75 % ) were treatment failures following other intravesical therapy . thirty-six ( 66 % ) patients responded to treatment , and 19 ( 34 % ) were treatment failures . twenty-seven ( 66 % ) of 41 patients with cta-ct1 tumors and 9 ( 64 % ) of 14 patients with ctis responded , with a mean follow-up period of 30.5 months . disease progression was noted in 8 ( 15 % ) of the patients and muscle invasive disease in 6 . patients with a history of three or more previous events of tumor recurrence , positive urinary cytology , and multicentric disease , all fared worse than patients without these characteristics ( p less than 0.05 ) . bcg is an effective agent in controlling superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder , even in a high-risk group of patients who failed previous intravesical therapy . bcg should be employed in this group of patients prior to radical surgery . 
percutaneous urinary diversion in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer . twenty-two patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer underwent percutaneous urinary diversion ; at the time , all but one had metastatic disease . eleven patients received postnephrostomy therapy . the median survival time for all the patients was one hundred nineteen days . overall , 41 percent of the patients ' remaining lifetime was spent in the hospital . six never left the hospital and 10 required rehospitalization ; the remaining 6 patients were never rehospitalized . the median survival time for this group of patients was shorter than the expected survival of similar patients without ureteral obstruction . it appears that percutaneous urinary diversion does not improve the quality of life of these patients . 
prognostic factors and value of adjunctive nephrectomy in patients with stage iv renal cell carcinoma . we reviewed 57 cases of stage iv renal cell carcinoma to clarify the factors influencing prognosis and to evaluate the value of nephrectomy . cumulative survival from the initial diagnosis was analyzed with respect to the patients ' age , sex , side of primary tumor , initial performance status ( ps ) , site of metastasis , and nephrectomy . overall survival for the patients was 51 percent at one year , 22 percent at three years , and 11 percent at five years . age , sex , and side of primary tumor had no influence on survival . improved survival was correlated with good ps , metastases limited to single organ , and removal of the primary tumor . with regard to histopathologic features in nephrectomized patients , low grade and stage were correlated with longer survival . these factors should be considered in the analysis of results of future clinical trials of metastatic renal cell carcinoma . 
pharmacokinetics and metabolism of nilutamide . data are available on the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of nilutamide in the rat , dog , and human ( normal volunteers and patients with advanced prostatic carcinoma ) . studies using 14carbon-nilutamide , radioimmunoassay , and high-performance liquid chromatography ( hplc ) are reviewed . in the rat , bioavailability by the oral route was complete . the majority of the plasma radioactivity was unchanged nilutamide up to six hours , t1/2 was seven hours , and clearance was 150 ml/hour/kg body weight . metabolism studies identified 6 urinary metabolites . the major metabolites result from reduction of the nitro group initially to an hydroxylamine ( 17 % ) and then to a primary amino ( 26 % ) group . in normal volunteers the compound was rapidly absorbed , displayed linear kinetics over a dose range of 100-300 mg , and declined slowly in plasma with a terminal phase t1/2 of forty-three to forty-nine hours . in studies in 12 patients with advanced ( stage d ) prostatic carcinoma , single-dose kinetics after 14c-nilutamide and kinetics with repetitive twice-daily dosing of two to seven weeks were measured . terminal phase plasma t1/2 of unchanged nilutamide was 56 + / - 19 hours and of total radioactivity 87 + / - 27 hours ( mean + / - sd ) . area under the curve of plasma radioactivity was 23 to 38 percent unchanged nilutamide . urinary excretion of radioactivity was slow and incomplete because the collection time was not long enough in regard to t1/2 ( mean after 5 days , 62 + / - 10 % ) and consisted almost entirely of metabolites . steady-state plasma levels of nilutamide were reached in about two weeks . it can be concluded that in humans , unlike other species , plasma decay of nilutamide is very slow . elimination is almost exclusively by metabolism . single-daily dosing is appropriate . hepatic impairment could be expected to prolong plasma decay ; renal impairment is likely to have little effect . 
castration plus nilutamide vs castration plus placebo in advanced prostate cancer . a review . combination of antiandrogen treatment with surgical or medical castration should improve the efficacy of endocrine treatment of prostatic cancer by blocking the effects of adrenal androgens . a nonsteroidal antiandrogen , nilutamide , has shown promising results in preliminary open studies . in a short-term ( 29 days ) comparison of nilutamide plus buserelin and buserelin plus placebo , nilutamide ( 300 mg/day ) , significantly reduced bone pain , and fewer patients experienced worsening pain than in the control group . the initial buserelin-induced increase in prostatic acid phosphatase was prevented by nilutamide , but there was a similar increase in testosterone and gonadotropin concentrations to that seen in the control group . thus , nilutamide can prevent the tumor flare-up associated with the start of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone ( lh-rh ) treatment , even though the endocrine responses are not affected . in three multicenter , randomized , double-blind placebo-controlled trials of castration and nilutamide involving 248 patients , the combination of nilutamide and castration decreased bone pain , improved performance status , and increased the number of patients with objective regression , compared with patients who were castrated but did not receive nilutamide . nilutamide was generally well tolerated , though visual disorders , gastrointestinal disorders , and alcohol intolerance were reported in patients receiving nilutamide . the results suggest that nilutamide improves the efficacy of castration in patients with prostatic cancer . current studies are investigating the effects of this treatment on survival and the risk-benefit ratio . 
combination of anandron with orchiectomy in treatment of metastatic prostate cancer . results of a double-blind study . a multicenter , randomized double-blind study was carried out in 203 patients with metastatic prostate cancer , in order to compare the efficacy of complete suppression of androgens achieved with surgical castration and nilutamide ( anandron ) , 100 mg t.i.d. the combined therapy was well-tolerated by patients , and they noted a better relief of bone pain after six months than those in the control group . there was a greater number of favorable responses in the combined treatment group . in addition , despite a similar median progression-free actuarial rate , the combined treatment ( nilutamide plus orchiectomy ) offered an improved survival time over orchiectomy alone . 
pharmacology of antiandrogens and value of combining androgen suppression with antiandrogen therapy . antiandrogens are compounds able to block the effect of androgens directly on their target cells by inhibiting their binding to the androgen receptor ( ar ) . two chemical classes of antiandrogens are presently on the market or in clinical trials : steroids ( cyproterone , megestrol acetates ) , and nonsteroids ( flutamide , nilutamide ) . steroid antiandrogens interact not only with ar but also with progestin and glucocorticoid receptors and thus give rise to progestin and glucocorticoid effects . by contrast , nonsteroid antiandrogens interact only with ar and are thus devoid of other hormonal or antihormonal activities . nilutamide does not need to be transformed into an active metabolite , unlike flutamide , and interacts with dog , rat , and human prostate ar in vitro . its kinetics lead to a prolonged interaction with ar in vivo after administration to rats . in prostate cancer treatment , it is necessary to combine an antiandrogen to surgical or chemical ( estrogens , lh-rh agonists ) castration to obtain a complete suppression of androgens . the antiandrogen will block specifically , at the target site , the trophic effect of adrenal androgens left intact by castration , and the secretion of which can only be suppressed by treatments ( adrenalectomy , aminoglutethimide , ketoconazole ) that also suppress corticoid synthesis . we have shown that nilutamide counteracts the trophic effect , on the prostate of castrated rats , of adrenal androgens administered continuously ( minipumps ) at circulating levels similar to those recorded in castrated men . nilutamide will also impede the flare-up effect of the testosterone increase induced by lh-rh agonists at the beginning of treatment . we have shown in the rat treated with buserelin that the increase in prostate weight observed during the initial days of treatment by the lh-rh agonist can be inhibited by a combined treatment with nilutamide . this combined treatment " nilutamide plus castration " has been tested in an experimental androgen-dependent cancer model , the shionogi tumor . the administration of nilutamide to mice , castrated twenty-four hours before the inoculation of tumor cells , delayed the appearance of tumors and reduced their number . finally , the absence of androgen effect and the antiandrogen activity of the product were also demonstrated in human tumor cells in culture ( t-47 d cells ) transfected with the mmtv androgen-dependent promoter coupled with the cat reporter gene . 
antisperm antibody detection using concurrent cytofluorometry and indirect immunofluorescence microscopy . anti-sperm antibodies from serum and seminal plasma were detected by concurrent flow cytometry and epifluorescence microscopy using fluorescein-conjugated antihuman immunoglobulins . experimental conditions were designed , taking advantage of several monoclonal antisperm antibodies , to test aspects of the assay before clinical application . perturbation of membrane integrity altered both the localization of binding and the number of sperm cells positive for bound antibodies . in specimens from selected infertility patients , 21.6 % of the females and 40.8 % of the males had significant levels of antisperm antibodies . differences in the incidence of isoimmunity between female partners of antibody-positive or antibody-negative males and differences in the localization of antigens targeted by serum versus seminal plasma antibodies in men support the idea that , in some cases , immunity to sperm cells may be the result of altered sperm antigens . 
an overview of pregnancy in women with underlying renal disease . this is a report of a retrospective study of the effects of preexisting glomerular disease and pregnancy on each other . two hundred forty pregnancies in 166 japanese women who delivered between 1970 and 1988 were analyzed . there were 206 ( 86 % ) live births , 14 ( 6 % ) perinatal deaths , and 20 ( 8 % ) spontaneous abortions . perinatal loss was greatest in women with hypertension and/or glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) less than 70 ml/min before conception . pregnancy did not appear to adversely affect the underlying glomerular disease if gfr was greater than 70 ml/min and blood pressure was below 140/90 mm hg . however , with moderately impaired renal function ( creatinine greater than 124 mumol/l [ 1.4 mg/dl ] or gfr less than 50 ml/min ) , the long-term prognosis was poorer , despite generally favorable obstetrical outcomes . gravidas with membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis had the highest rates of hypertension ( 29 % ) and decreased renal function ( 33 % ) at final follow-up , ie , the type and severity of glomerulonephritis had a major impact on clinical course . 
specific controversies concerning the natural history of renal disease in pregnancy . whether or not pregnancy adversely affects the natural course of underlying primary renal disease , and whether fetal outcome is influenced by the type of renal disease per se are controversial issues . we retrospectively analyzed the fetal and maternal outcome in 148 women with various , biopsy-proven histological types of primary chronic glomerulonephritis ( gn ) , including iga gn ( 52 patients ) , membranous gn ( [ mgn ] 20 patients ) , membranoproliferative type 1 gn ( [ mpgn ] 58 patients ) , focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis ( [ fsgs ] 13 patients ) , and minimal change nephrotic syndrome ( [ mcns ] 22 patients ) , who were pregnant ( with a total of 290 pregnancies ) after the clinical onset of gn , and in 104 women with reflux nephropathy ( with a total of 254 pregnancies ) . fetal outcome was poor in the presence of uncontrolled hypertension , nephrotic range proteinuria , and/or impaired renal function at conception or early in gestation , whatever the type of renal disease . an accelerated , more rapid than expected , worsening of maternal renal function was observed in five gn patients of whom four ( two iga , two mpgn ) had serum creatinine ( scr ) levels greater than 160 mumol/l ( 1.8 mg/dl ) early in gestation , and in five patients with reflux nephropathy whose scr at conception ranged from 180 to 490 mumol/l ( 2.0 to 5.5 mg/dl ) . 
dialysis , transplantation , and pregnancy . women on regular dialysis are usually infertile , but contraception should not be neglected . pregnancy is invariably complicated and poses excessive risks , with an uncertain and low chance of success . even when therapeutic abortion is excluded , the live birth outcome at best is 19 % . renal transplantation usually reverses abnormal reproductive function and comprehensive pre-pregnancy counseling is essential , with discussion of all implications , including the harsh realities of long-term maternal survival . in this survey of 2,309 pregnancies in 1,594 women , therapeutic abortion was undertaken in 27 % of conceptions and the spontaneous abortion rate was 13 % . of the conceptions that continued beyond the first trimester , 92 % ended successfully . in most , renal function was augmented in pregnancy , with transient deterioration in late pregnancy ( with or without proteinuria ) . permanent renal impairment occurred in 15 % of pregnancies . there was a 30 % chance of developing hypertension , preeclampsia or both . preterm delivery occurred in 50 % , and intrauterine growth retardation in 25 % of pregnancies . despite its pelvic location , the transplanted kidney rarely produced dystocia and was not injured during vaginal delivery . cesarean section should be reserved for obstetric reasons only . neonatal complications include respiratory distress syndrome , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , adrenocortical insufficiency , and infection . no predominant or frequent developmental abnormalities have been described and data on infancy and childhood are encouraging . for the future more work is needed to improve pre-pregnancy assessment criteria , to understand the mechanisms of gestational renal dysfunction and proteinuria , to assess the side effects and implications of immunosuppression in pregnancy , and to elucidate the remote effects of pregnancy on both renal prognosis and the offspring . 
the renal lesion of preeclampsia revisited . controversy has existed about the relative contributions of subendothelial " fibrinoid " deposits and endothelial cell swelling to the thickened glomerular capillary wall and reduced lumen in preeclampsia . a morphometric analysis of the ultrastructural changes in the glomerulus in preeclampsia showed that subendothelial fibrinoid deposits were a significant feature of biopsies during pregnancy , but were absent in many biopsies in the postpartum period . these deposits disappear progressively in the first week after delivery . capillary wall changes with reduplication of glomerular capillary walls and mesangial interposition are another prominent feature of preeclampsia . these changes resolve gradually and may present for as long as 18 months . foam cells in glomeruli are rarely found in biopsies during pregnancy , but appear during resorption of the subendothelial deposits in the postpartum period . electron-dense droplets in glomerular epithelial cells are a characteristic feature of preeclampsia . immunogold labeling demonstrates that they contain albumen , immunoglobulins , fibrinogen , and complement . fibrinogen is usually present in an inner electron-dense core in a droplet . igm is usually in a relatively translucent outer part of the droplet . other proteins are diffusely distributed . segmental hyalinosis is a change that closely resembles the changes of preeclampsia , and segmental lesions may appear during preeclampsia and disappear after pregnancy . 
ten years ' experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . up to january 1989 , 171 patients were trained at our center on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) , and 17 on continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis ( ccpd ) . over 10 years , we have gained 5,068 patient-months experience . patient survival was 60 % and 31 % at 5 and 10 years , respectively . in contrast , diabetics had a survival of 32 % at 5 years . major complications included 499 new episodes of peritonitis , 304 exit-site infections , 22 hernias , five bowel perforations , one hydrothorax , and three episodes of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis . our technique survival has been 62 % and 40 % at 5 and 10 years , respectively . we believe that capd is a viable dialysis technique for long-term treatment of chronic renal failure and it should be offered as an option to intermittent hemodialysis . 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis : ten years at one facility . a review of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) performed at one facility over a period of 10 years showed that age and type ii diabetes mellitus were associated with the worst technique survival . the median survival of patients entering capd was not significantly different when the etiology of renal failure was chronic glomerulonephritis ( cgn ; 27 months ) , chronic interstitial nephritis ( cin ; 21 months ) , diabetes mellitus type i ( 21 months ) , or hypertension ( 16 months ) . patients with diabetes mellitus type ii had significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) worse survival ( 11 months ) . a patient remaining on capd 6 months had a 55 % to 60 % chance of remaining on therapy at 2 years and a 47 % chance at the end of 3 years , whereas a patient with diabetes mellitus type ii had a 34 % conditional probability of remaining on dialysis at 2 years and 18 % at 3 years . sex , race , and educational achievement were not important determinants of dialysis technique survival . studies are indicated to identify predictors of a poor dialysis experience . 
the effects of reprocessing cuprophane and polysulfone dialyzers on beta 2-microglobulin removal from hemodialysis patients [ published erratum appears in am j kidney dis 1991 jul ; 18 ( 1 ) :144 ] to further define the relationship between dialyzer reuse and the removal of beta 2-microglobulin ( beta 2m ) during dialysis , 26 patients who received hemodialysis were studied . thirteen patients were dialyzed with conventional cuprophane dialyzers , and thirteen patients were dialyzed with high-flux polysulfone dialyzers . patients in each group were dialyzed with only new dialyzers during the primary-use phase of the study , and reprocessed dialyzers during the reuse phase . dialyzers were used six times during the reuse phase . serum beta 2m levels were measured both predialysis and postdialysis , and adjusted for fluid loss . dialysis with conventional cuprophane new dialyzers during the primary-use phase of the study resulted in a 3.3 % increase in serum beta 2m levels , and a 2.4 % increase in serum beta 2m levels during the reuse phase . the difference in the change of the concentration of beta 2m between primary-use and reuse phases was not statistically significant . dialysis with high-flux polysulfone new dialyzers during the primary-use phase was associated with a decrease of 59.5 % in the mean postdialysis concentration of serum beta 2m compared with the predialysis level . a corresponding decrease of 62.6 % in serum beta 2m levels was observed after dialysis with high-flux polysulfone reprocessed dialyzers during the reuse phase . these data show no evidence of an adverse effect on the clearance of beta 2m during dialysis from the reuse of dialyzers up to six times . the results confirm previous studies that have reported that high-flux dialysis with polysulfone dialyzers removes substantial amounts of beta 2m , and dialysis with conventional cuprophane dialyzers does not . 
concomitant iron and aluminum mass transfer following deferoxamine infusion during hemofiltration . variable tissue overloading can alter the removal rate of iron and aluminum from uremics . owing to its higher affinity to deferoxamine ( dfo ) and higher plasma concentrations , fe could impair al removal in cases of simultaneous body burden . fe and al plasma kinetics and mass transfer were therefore studied in 12 uremic patients with different fe and al status : six with normal ferritin levels ( less than 400 micrograms/l [ ng/ml ] ) , and al 1.4 to 4.7 mumol/l ( 40 to 131 micrograms/l ) ( group a ) ; six with increased ferritin ( greater than 2,000 micrograms/l ) , and al 1.7 to 17 mumol/l ( 47 to 476 micrograms/l ) ( group b ) . dfo ( 40 and 80 mg/kg in a random sequence ) was administered once a week during the first hour of the first hemofiltration ( hf ) . the results show that in both groups and with both dfo doses , maximum fe and al mass transfer was achieved in the first and second hf , respectively . the 80-mg/kg dose of dfo significantly raised al mass transfer in both groups , whereas fe mass transfer was only slightly affected . even though plasma fe levels were almost always higher than al , al mass transfer eventually exceeded that of fe , in both fe-normal and fe-overload patients . the bias towards al in mass transfer was enhanced in both groups in the second hf , and at the higher dfo doses . thus , dfo once a week reduced fe loss to less than 30 mumol/wk in patients with normal ferritin levels . in both fe and al overloaded patients , al can be removed , and al mass transfer may often exceed fe mass transfer , depending on the degree of tissue burden , the time from dfo infusion , and the dfo dose . 
calcitriol metabolism in patients with chronic renal failure . we studied calcitriol metabolism in white patients with chronic renal failure and in age - and sex-matched normal subjects . the plasma levels of calcitriol ( 21.9 + / - 1.6 pg/ml , n = 7 , v control , 37.4 + / - 2.9 pg/ml , p less than 0.001 ) , metabolic clearance rate ( mcr ) of calcitriol ( 0.45 + / - .01 ml/min/kg v control , 0.58 + / - .02 ml/min/kg , p less than 0.001 ) , and production rate ( pr ) of calcitriol ( 14.2 + / - 1.0 ng/kg/d v control , 31.8 + / - 3.2 ng/kg/d , p less than 0.001 ) were significantly lower in patients with moderate renal failure ( average creatinine clearance , 0.59 + / - 0.01 ml/s [ 35.1 + / - 6.1 ml/min ] ) when compared with the respective values of normal control subjects . the mcr of calcitriol was determined again in patients with renal failure after they received calcitriol , 1 microgram/d , for 1 week . the mcr remained unchanged ( 0.46 + / - .04 ml/min/kg , n = 7 ) and plasma levels of calcitriol were increased to 34.6 + / - 2.77 pg/ml . the mechanism by which the mcr of calcitriol decreases in renal failure is partly due to the presence of inhibitory factors of degradation enzymes in uremic plasma . when the ultrafiltrates of uremic plasma obtained from hemodialysis patients were infused to normal sprague-dawley rats , the mcrs of calcitriol ( 0.20 + / - .01 ml/min/kg , n = 6 ) were markedly suppressed in comparison to those of rats infused with the ultrafiltrates of normal plasma ( 0.37 + / - .01 ml/min/kg , n = 6 , p less than 0.001 ) . the uremic plasma also contained factors that inhibit the synthesis of calcitriol . we conclude that metabolic degradation of calcitriol is decreased in patients with renal failure , and uremic plasma contains inhibitory factors that suppress the synthesis and degradation of calcitriol . 
community-acquired acute renal failure . acute renal failure usually occurs during hospitalization , but may also be present on admission to the hospital . to define the causes and outcomes of community-acquired acute renal failure , we undertook a prospective study of patients admitted to the hospital with acute elevations in serum creatinine concentrations . over a 17-month period , all admission serum creatinine determinations were screened for patients with values greater than 177 mumol/l ( 2 mg/dl ) . these values were compared with baseline creatinines to select patients with an acute elevation in serum creatinine occurring outside the hospital . one hundred patients were entered into the study , with an overall incidence of 1 % of hospital admissions . seventy percent of the patients had prerenal azotemia , 11 % had intrinsic acute renal failure , 17 % had obstruction , and 2 % could not be classified . mean peak serum creatinine ( 318 + / - 18 mumol/l [ 3.6 + / - 0.2 mg/dl ] ) and mortality ( 7 % ) was lowest in the group with prerenal azotemia . in this group , volume contraction due to vomiting , decreased fluid intake , diarrhea , fever , glucosuria , or diuretics was the most common underlying cause . the group with intrinsic acute renal failure had the most severe renal failure and the highest mortality ( 55 % ) . although ischemic acute tubular necrosis is the most common cause of hospital-acquired intrinsic acute renal failure , this etiology was seen in only one patient . drug-induced nephrotoxicity and infection-related causes were the most common underlying etiologies of intrinsic acute renal failure . obstructive renal failure had a mortality of 24 % and was most commonly due to benign prostatic hypertrophy . 
serial glomerular and tubular dynamics in thyroidectomized rats with remnant kidneys . serial measurements were performed in munich-wistar rats with five-sixths nephrectomy that had undergone prior selective thyroidectomy ( tx group ) or thyroidectomy with thyroxine replacement ( txt4 group ) to determine the effects of tx on glomerular and tubular dynamics in relation to tx attenuation of renal failure progression . at 1 week , inulin clearance rates ( cin ) in txt4 and tx rats were 0.367 + / - 0.171 and 0.120 + / - 0.036 ml/min , respectively , different at p less than 0.01 . corresponding single-nephron filtration rate ( sngfr ) , glomerular plasma flow ( qa ) , glomerular transcapillary hydraulic pressure ( delta p ) , and proximal tubular reabsorption ( jv ) were all reduced in tx compared with txt4 rats ( p less than 0.01 ) . protein excretion ( uprot ) was 151 + / - 40 in txt4 rats , and 9 + / - 5 mg/d in tx animals . glomerular mesangial matrix expansion and focal tubulointerstitial changes were more frequent in txt4 than tx rats . by 4 weeks , cin , sngfr , qa , glomerular ultrafiltration coefficient ( kf ) and jv were similar in tx and txt4 . only glomerular capillary pressure ( pgc ) remained lower in tx rats ( 35 + / - 3 v 50 + / - 3 mm hg in txt4 , p less than 0.001 ) . uprot was 161 + / - 24 in txt4 and 17 + / - 12 mg/d in tx rats . while 7 % + / - 4 % of glomeruli showed focal sclerosis in txt4 rats , there was none in the tx group . maximal glomerular planar area increased between 1 and 4 weeks in the txt4 group , but not in the tx group . however , this measurement was not significantly different between txt4 and tx glomeruli at 1 or 4 weeks . minimal focal tubulointerstitial changes were found in txt4 , but there were not progressive from those observed at 1 week . the reduced pgc at 1 week was the result of a disproportionately greater increase in afferent ( ra ) than efferent arteriolar resistance ( re ) in tx rats ( p less than 0.025 ) ; however , at 4 weeks , both ra and re had decreased to values identical to those in txt4 animals and the lower pgc in tx rats was the result of a reduced mean arterial pressure . in conclusion , a reduced pgc was the sole functional correlate of decreased proteinuria and glomerulosclerosis afforded by tx in this partial nephrectomy model . suppression of either nephrectomy-related hypertrophy or tubulointerstitial injury by tx could not be excluded as at least partially protective factors . 
recurrent acute glomerulonephritis . biopsy-proven recurrent acute glomerulonephritis ( agn ) is extremely rare and is usually seen in children with acute , well-defined streptococcal infections . we present here a patient with recurrent agn in the absence of chronic bacterial infection . the subject , an 80-year-old man , had eight episodes of acute nephritic syndrome following upper respiratory tract infection . no abnormalities were detected during remissions . renal biopsies during two of those episodes showed typical postinfectious acute exsudative endocapillary glomerulonephritis , while results of another biopsy performed during remission were normal . 
group b streptococcus : an unusual cause of severe peritonitis in young children treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . peritonitis in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) patients is only rarely caused by beta-hemolytical streptococci species . we describe two young children , aged 15 months and 5 years , respectively , who presented an unusually severe course of peritonitis due to group b beta-hemolytical streptococci . this course of the disease showed a strong similarity with neonatal streptococcal septicemia . in neonates , igg2 deficiency is thought to be partly responsible for the severity of this condition . this may also be true for young children treated with capd , since igg2 deficiency has been established for children . 
prospective analysis of sperm-oocyte fusion and reactive oxygen species generation as criteria for the diagnosis of infertility . we have undertaken a prospective analysis of the diagnostic significance of three different criteria of human sperm function including the conventional semen profile , measurements of hamster-oocyte fusion , and determinations of reactive oxygen species generation in 139 couples . the latter , who were characterized by a lack of detectable abnormalities in the female partner , were followed up for a maximum of 4 years to determine the incidence of spontaneous pregnancy in the absence of therapeutic intervention . assessments of monthly fecundity with life table analysis techniques revealed a highly significant , positive relationship between fertility and hamster-oocyte fusion rates that were measured in the presence of the ionophore , a23187 . conversely , reactive oxygen species generation was shown to be negatively associated with both the outcome of the sperm-oocyte fusion assay and fertility in vivo . the clinical significance of these diagnostic techniques was emphasized by the fact that within the same data set , the conventional semen profile was of no significant diagnostic value . 
mechanisms of hemolysis and anemia associated with acute antepartum pyelonephritis . anemia develops in about a fourth of women whose pregnancy is complicated by pyelonephritis , although its exact mechanism has not been defined clearly . in this study of 18 women with antepartum pyelonephritis , although only a third had anemia ( hematocrit less than 30 vol/dl ) , there was evidence for hemolysis in all 18 . specifically there was a mean decrease in hematocrit of 5 vol/dl from admission to discharge . with scanning electron microscopy , we compared erythrocyte morphologic aberrations that were found in women with renal infection with those of normally pregnant women , and the former had significantly increased proportions of echinocytes in particular , but schistocytes and spherocytes were increased also ( total 10.3 % vs 1.4 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . these changes , especially echinocytosis , have been induced in vitro by lipopolysaccharide , and they are known to lead to premature red blood cell destruction in vivo . we conclude that hemolysis with subsequent anemia in pregnant women with pyelonephritis is caused by lipopolysaccharide-induced red blood cell membrane damage . 
urinary tract dilatation in pregnancy . right-sided ureteral and renal pelvis dilatation was observed during routine uterine ultrasonographic examination at 30 weeks ' gestation . this continued to progress with the renal pelvis measuring 8.9 cm in diameter at 35 weeks , leading to early delivery . renal function remained normal and these changes resolved completely after delivery . 
platelet-complement interactions in mesangial proliferative nephritis in the rat . complement has been reported to mediate mesangiolysis and glomerular hypercellularity in the rat in a model of glomerulonephritis ( gn ) induced with anti-thy 1 antibody . to investigate the mechanism for the complement-mediated hypercellularity , the authors first determined if the effect of complement depletion was to inhibit cell proliferation or whether the effect was primarily to inhibit leukocyte infiltration . rats depleted of complement with cobra venom factor ( cvf ) had 1 ) significantly less mesangiolysis than controls at day 5 ( 0.6 + / - 0.1 versus 3.4 + / - 0.4 , scale 0-4 + , p less than 0.001 ) ; 2 ) less cell proliferation , as assessed by immunostaining for the proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) / cyclin , a cell-cycle-dependent antigen ( 0.5 + / - 0.1 versus 2.4 + / - 0.7 cells/glomerular cross-section , p less than 0.01 ) ; and 3 ) less leukocyte infiltration as assessed by immunohistochemical labeling ( 0.6 + / - 0.1 versus 1.9 + / - 0.3 cells/glomerular cross-section , p less than 0.01 ) . because it was reported recently that platelets also mediate glomerular cell proliferation in this model , this study examined whether the mechanism for complement-mediated cell proliferation involved an effect on glomerular platelet localization . the glomerular uptake of 111in-labeled platelets was quantitated in normal and cvf-treated rats at 1 , 4 , 12 , and 24 hours after induction of gn . rats with anti-thy 1 gn had substantial glomerular accumulation of platelets at all times studied , peaking at 4 hours ( 608 + / - 171 platelets per glomerulus ) . complement depletion profoundly reduced glomerular platelet localization in anti-thy 1 gn ( mean less than 35 platelets per glomerulus at all times studied , p less than 0.05 ) . thus these studies demonstrate an important role for complement in mediating platelet localization in anti-thy 1 gn , an effect that may account for the complement-dependent , neutrophil-independent glomerular hypercellularity in this model . 
glomerular basement membrane expansion in passive heymann nephritis . absence of increased synthesis of type iv collagen , laminin , or fibronectin . the distribution and synthetic rate of glomerular basement membrane components was examined in the passive heymann nephritis model of experimental membranous nephropathy . the extensive tissue injury that developed included subepithelial electron-dense deposits , podocyte foot process effacement , and expansion of the glomerular basement membrane . levels of mrna for type iv collagen , laminin , and fibronectin from isolated glomeruli was quantitated by slot-blot analysis and showed no change in experimental animals as compared to controls at either 1 week , 3 weeks , or 3 months after disease induction . immunoelectron microscopy with gold-labeled anti-laminin igg revealed no difference in the number of particles bound to the glomerular basement membrane of experimental animals and controls . immunofluorescence with both type iv collagen antisera and anti-laminin antibody showed no difference in the intensity or pattern of staining . despite extensive glomerular damage and glomerular basement membrane thickening , no evidence was found for either an increase in the synthetic rate of type iv collagen , laminin , or fibronectin or for an accumulation of basement membrane laminin within the damaged glomeruli . alternate processes , such as diminished density of matrix components or accumulation of other unmeasured matrix constituents , presumably account for the expansion of the glomerular basement membrane seen in experimental membranous nephropathy . 
angioplasty of renal arteries : a report of ten year 's experience . report of pta of renal arteries in 288 patients . primary results show good to optimal dilatation of the arteries ( 60.6 % to 78.6 % ) . one third of all cases achieved optimal blood pressures . in about 40 % antihypertensive drugs had to be administered , in about 30 % blood pressure remained unchanged although pta was effective . pta of renal arteries is the best method of treating renal hypertension , also because of the low rate of complications . 
recombinant human erythropoietin and renal anemia : molecular biology , clinical efficacy , and nervous system effects anemia ( hematocrit less than 25 % ) predictably accompanies chronic renal failure and is present in over 90 % of patients on chronic dialysis . relative erythropoietin deficiency is the proximate cause . recombinant human erythropoietin recently became available for research and clinical use . erythropoietin production is regulated by a single copy gene located on chromosome 7 ; its expression has been shown in the kidney , liver , and macrophages . it is glycosylated protein of 166 amino acids with a molecular weight of 34,000 d. when given to patients with the anemia of renal failure , erythropoietin causes a dose-dependent rise in hematocrit to the normal range within 8 to 14 weeks . complications of this response are minimal except for a significant incidence of hypertension . when the anemia is corrected , the patient 's quality of life , cognitive function , and brain electrophysiology improve dramatically . recombinant human erythropoietin represents a major breakthrough in the treatment of patients with chronic renal failure . current reimbursement constraints limit its full application . 
proportion of lung and bladder cancers in males resulting from occupation : a systematic approach studies conducted in several countries that investigated the relationship of occupation and cancer in men were reviewed and compared . estimates of the proportion of cancers due to occupational exposure that occurred in the general population were analyzed , and sources of variation were explored . a systematic and standardized evaluation of studies on lung and bladder cancer were undertaken , and only investigations that allowed for confounding from tobacco smoking were included . the proportion of lung cancers attributable to occupation ranged between 1 and 5 % ( when considering only exposure to asbestos ) and 40 % ( in a study with a high proportion of subjects exposed to ionizing radiation ) ; for bladder cancer , estimates were between 0 and 3 % in a few studies and between 16 and 24 % in several investigations . no similar attempt of systematic comparison was possible for other cancers . 
adoptive immunotherapy with high-dose interleukin-2 : kinetics of circulating progenitors correlate with interleukin-6 , granulocyte colony-stimulating factor level . immunotherapy with interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells results in significant tumor regression in patients with advanced cancer . we have investigated the kinetics of circulating erythroid ( bfu-e ) and granulocytic-macrophage ( cfu-gm ) progenitors after il-2 therapy in 11 cancer patients , mainly affected by metastatic melanoma and renal cell carcinoma . administration of il-2 from day 1 through day 5 constantly induced a dramatic decrease of the number of circulating bfu-e and cfu-gm , which then showed a striking rebound ( up to values fourfold and sevenfold higher , respectively , than the pretherapy levels ) on discontinuation of il-2 , ie , from day 5 through day 10 . a similar kinetic pattern was observed during and after the second cycle of il-2 administration . 3 [ h ] - thymidine killing experiments showed that the cycling activity of the progenitors was virtually unmodified in the rebound phases . to explore the mechanism ( s ) underlying this kinetic pattern , we have analyzed the plasma concentration of several hematopoietic growth factors , including il-1 beta , il-3 , il-4 , il-6 , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , g-csf , and erythropoietin ( ep ) . no modifications in the levels of il-3 , gm-csf , or il-1 beta were observed , whereas a pronounced increase of il-6 and g-csf concentration was monitored , starting at day 3 and peaking at day 5 of treatment ( a parallel , but modest , increase of ep level was also observed ) . the elevation of il-6 and g-csf concentration is directly correlated with and may , at least in part , underlie the subsequent rebound of circulating hematopoietic progenitors . furthermore , the increase in il-4 level observed at day 10 of therapy may mediate the eosinophilia gradually starting at this stage of treatment . 
six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening . objective -- to determine the value of screening for bacteriuria in infants with special emphasis on the natural course of untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria , renal growth , and renal damage . design -- prospective six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening in an unselected infant population . setting -- paediatric outpatient clinic . patients -- 50 infants ( 14 girls , 36 boys ) with bacteriuria on screening verified by suprapubic aspiration from an unselected population of 3581 infants in a defined area of gothenburg . interventions -- children with asymptomatic bacteriuria and normal findings on initial urography were untreated , although other infections were treated . main outcome measures -- culture of urine and determination of c reactive protein concentration every six weeks for the first six months after diagnosis , every three months from six months to two years , and every six months between two and three years ; thereafter yearly urine culture . evaluation of renal concentrating capacity with a desmopressin test ; radiological examination , including first and follow up urography and micturition cystourethrography without antibiotic cover ; and measurement of renal parenchymal thickness and renal surface area . results -- of the original 50 infants , 37 ( 12 girls , 25 boys ) were followed up for at least six years . two infants developed pyelonephritis within two weeks after bacteriuria was diagnosed ; the others remained free of symptoms . 45 infants were untreated ; the bacteriuria cleared spontaneously in 36 and in response to antibiotics given for infections in the respiratory tract in eight . recurrences of bacteriuria were observed in 10 of the 50 children , of whom one had pyelonephritis . no child had more than one recurrence . at follow up urography in 36 of the 50 children ( 9 girls , 27 boys ) after a median of 32 months no child had developed renal damage . first samples tested for renal concentrating capacity showed significantly higher values than those from a reference population ( mean sd score 0.50 , 95 % confidence interval 0.21 to 0.79 ; p less than 0.001 ) , but the last samples showed no significant difference ( mean sd score 0.08 , -0.24 to 0.40 ; p greater than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- mass screening for bacteriuria in infancy results primarily in detection of innocent bacteriuric episodes and is not recommended . 
management of staghorn stones using a combination of lithotripsy , percutaneous nephrolithotomy and solution r irrigation . the treatment of staghorn and partial staghorn calculi remains complex despite modern methods of stone removal . we describe the results following treatment of 112 stones . three methods were used : percutaneous nephrolithotomy , extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy and solution r irrigation , either alone or in combination ; 57 stones ( 55.8 % ) were completely cleared , with solution r irrigation helping to achieve complete clearance in 6 of these . a further 24 stones were not completely cleared ( small asymptomatic fragments less than 3 mm remained ) . a satisfactory outcome ( stone-free or asymptomatic fragments less than 3 mm ) was achieved in 81 stones ( 79 % ) . 
the impact of extracorporeal piezoelectric lithotripsy on the management of ureteric calculi : an audit . the presentation and management of 153 patients with ureteric calculi requiring active treatment over a 12-month period were reviewed ; 74 % of patients had primary ureteric calculi and 26 % had ureteric calculi composed of fragments resulting from extracorporeal piezoelectric shockwave lithotripsy ( epl ) to renal calculi ; 32 patients ( 21 % ) had more than 1 calculus or a steinstrasse . the primary procedures included were in situ epl ( n = 54 ) , push-bang ( 44 ) , retrograde ureteroscopy ( 40 ) , dormia basket extraction ( 6 ) , push-pull ( 1 ) , antegrade ureteroscopy ( 1 ) and combinations of these ( 7 ) . the success of the primary procedure could not be predicted from stone size , site or duration in the ureter , but upper tract dilatation was significantly less ( p less than 0.01 ) in the successful group . the overall success rate for complete stone extraction was 97 % , but 54 patients ( 35 % ) required more than 1 procedure to achieve this . in situ epl and push-bang , as either primary or secondary procedures , were successful in treating 79 patients ( 52 % ) ; 2 patients required ureterolithotomy ( 1.3 % ) . the overall complication rate was 18 % . since epl is only successful in treating approximately half of ureteric calculi , a range of other treatments should be available to maintain a low rate of open surgery . 
do extracorporeal shock waves affect urinary excretion of glycosaminoglycans ? urinary excretion of glycosaminoglycans ( gags ) was studied in 9 anaesthetised dogs and 10 patients with single kidneys . the animals were studied for 4 to 5 hours after administration of shock waves to 1 kidney , the contralateral organ serving as control . urinary excretion of gags was measured on both sides . the patients were studied 0 to 24 and 32 to 56 h after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) . in the animals an increased mean urinary excretion of gags was observed on both sides ; this was more marked in the treated kidney . the increase reflects tissue injury in the exposed kidney induced by the extracorporeal shock waves . no increase in mean urinary excretion of gags was observed in the patients . 
upper tract tumours following cystectomy for bladder cancer . is routine intravenous urography worthwhile ? the incidence and presentation of upper tract tumours were studied in 180 patients who had previously undergone cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . intravenous urography was performed routinely 3 months after cystectomy , 1 year later and at 3-yearly intervals thereafter . ten patients developed upper tract tumours ; 1 presented with loin pain and the remainder with haematuria . six patients underwent nephroureterectomy and 5 of them lived for at least 4 years ; 4 were inoperable and only 1 survived longer than 6 months . in this series , all patients with upper tract tumours presented with symptoms and routine intravenous urography failed to detect any asymptomatic lesions . routine radiological assessment of the upper tracts to detect tumours is not justified following cystectomy . 
transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract : prognostic variables and post-operative recurrences . in a retrospective study of 198 patients with transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract , post-operative recurrences developed as contralateral tumours in 2.5 % , in the ureteric stump after conservative resection in 19 % and in the bladder in 36.4 % . upper tract recurrences resembled the primary tumours in terms of grade and stage ; of the bladder tumours , 89 % were similar in grade and 72 % similar in stage to the primary tumours . age , sex , grade and stage had no effect on the number of bladder recurrences , but ureteric tumours had significantly more recurrences than renal pelvicaliceal tumours . sex , bladder recurrences and site of primary tumours did not influence survival . thus grade and stage of the primary tumour were the only predictive variables of the final outcome . 
pattern of urological malignancy in zambia . a hospital-based histopathological study . the pattern of urological malignancy among the indigenous population of zambia ( determined on the basis of histopathological reports from a major national hospital during an 8-year period ) is presented . a total of 6514 malignancies were observed , of which 784 ( 12 % ) were of urological origin . bladder carcinoma , predominantly squamous type , was the commonest urological tumour ( 51 % ) , followed by carcinoma of the prostate ( 26 % ) , carcinoma of the penis ( 18 % ) , renal tumours ( 4.3 % ) and testicular malignancy ( 0.7 % ) . in nearly 32 % of the bladder tumours , bilharzial ova were demonstrated histopathologically . nephroblastoma accounted for 70 % of the renal tumours and from a total of 7 cases of testicular tumours 5 were embryonal carcinoma and 2 seminoma . a brief reference is made to the pattern and aetiology of urological malignancies in some neighbouring countries . 
urodynamic morbidity and dysuria prophylaxis . a group of 324 patients received prophylactic treatment with either sodium bicarbonate , potassium citrate or a glucose placebo following urodynamic studies . urine was screened for infection both before and after testing and the incidence of dysuria assessed by postal questionnaire ; 63 % of patients experienced some degree of dysuria and this was severe and prolonged in 6.3 % , the majority of whom were male . neither sodium bicarbonate nor potassium citrate was any more effective in preventing dysuria than placebo . the presence of severe prolonged dysuria was not associated with a urinary tract infection or with any particular urodynamic diagnosis . 
night studies for primary diurnal and nocturnal enuresis and preliminary results of the " clam " ileocystoplasty . modified conventional urodynamic apparatus was used to provide overnight monitoring of bladder and rectal pressure . a group of 26 patients with primary diurnal and nocturnal enuresis underwent both daytime rapid fill cystometry and overnight natural fill cystometry . the overnight study was effective in detecting detrusor instability in 10 patients deemed normal on rapid fill cystometry ; 6 of these have now undergone clam ileocystoplasty and 5 are dry ; 3 are awaiting this procedure . the clam remains very effective in the management of patients with resistant nocturnal and diurnal enuresis if careful selection is adopted . overnight cystometry has proved to be an invaluable adjunct to the investigation of patients with primary diurnal and nocturnal enuresis previously felt to be urodynamically normal . 
can histological assessment predict the outcome in interstitial cystitis ? in a retrospective study we compared the outcome of 39 patients with interstitial cystitis to the histological findings at initial diagnostic bladder biopsy . the degree of inflammation and fibrosis and the mast cell counts were assessed on each biopsy . the prognostic relevance of the clinical features of age , duration of symptoms , frequency , nocturia , pain and bladder capacity was assessed . the study showed no statistical correlation between the severity of histological findings at diagnosis and the eventual outcome of the disease . over 50 % of patients with severe histological abnormalities responded to conservative treatment . although the majority of patients with mild pathological changes responded to conservative treatment , some did require surgical intervention . the clinical features of pain , nocturia and bladder capacity showed significant differences between the 2 patient groups . however , the former 2 features are subject to many variables and the latter probably has too wide a range to be useful as a prognostic indicator . only the response of patients to conservative treatment will indicate those who are not being helped and who may eventually require surgical treatment . 
is voided urine suitable for flow cytometric dna analysis ? samples of bladder washings are frequently used to provide cellular material for flow cytometric dna analysis . since voided urine is a potential source of similar material , the aim of this study was to determine whether voided urine yields satisfactory specimens . we compared the qualitative results of flow cytometric dna analysis of the cells in 53 specimens of voided urine and 109 samples of bladder washings ; 45 % ( 24/53 ) of urine specimens gave satisfactory dna histograms compared with 93 % ( 101/109 ) of bladder washings . this difference was apparent regardless of whether the bladder contained a tumour . it was concluded that bladder washings provide superior material for flow cytometric dna analysis and that flow cytometric dna analysis of freshly voided urine may have deficiencies which preclude its use in routine clinical practice . 
clinical significance of the " palpable mass " in patients with muscle-infiltrating bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy . between 1976 and 1985 , 132 patients with t2/t3/t4a bladder cancer underwent cystectomy after pre-operative radiotherapy ( 46 gy : 67 patients ; 20 gy : 65 patients ) . after a median time of 41 months , 62 patients were alive ; 51 had died from recurrent bladder cancer and 19 from intercurrent disease without recurrence of their malignancy . distant metastases developed in 40 patients , accompanied in 5 cases by local recurrence . local recurrence was the first sign of relapse in 11 patients . in 3 patients the localisation of the relapse remained unknown . the corrected 5-year survival rate was 60 % . t category and a palpable bladder tumour were independent pre-treatment prognostic factors in a cox regression analysis , together with the interval between initial diagnosis and cystectomy . the presence of a palpable tumour before the start of treatment was associated with a particularly poor prognosis in t3/t4a tumours , whereas the survival of patients with non-palpable t3/t4a tumours was similar to that of patients with t2 bladder cancer . another important prognostic factor was post-irradiation stage reduction ( no residual muscle infiltration in the cystectomy specimen ) . significantly more patients with non-palpable bladder tumours experienced post-radiation stage reduction than did those with a palpable tumour . however , the prognostic value of stage reduction was statistically significant only in patients with palpable bladder tumours . 
radical radiation treatment of invasive and locally advanced bladder carcinoma in elderly patients . a total of 146 patients with invasive or locally advanced carcinoma of the bladder ( t2-t4 ) underwent radiation treatment . a significantly higher complete response rate was observed with doses equal to or above 55 gy and with doses corresponding to cumulative radiation effect ( cre ) values of 1700 radiation effect units ( reu ) or more . in multivariate analysis , decreasing time from the first diagnosis of bladder carcinoma to radiation treatment and 1 or more transurethral resections was associated with a significant increase in survival ; increases in t category and sedimentation rate were negative prognostic factors . although both radiation dose and cre levels had a significant effect on survival in univariate analysis , an increase in cre levels alone was associated with a significant increase in survival in multivariate analysis . however , the most important predictor of survival was whether the patient showed a complete local response or not . this study emphasises the importance of treating patients with an adequate radiation dose over a short period of time in order to achieve the maximum radiobiological effect and thereby increase the possibility of cure . 
adjuvant topical chemotherapy versus immunotherapy in primary superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . in a prospective randomised controlled study , the efficacy of ethoglucid was compared with that of keyhole-limpet haemocyanin ( klh ) in preventing recurrent tumours following transurethral resection of primary superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . patients treated with ethoglucid ( n = 39 ) received 0.565 g ( 1 % solution ) ethoglucid weekly for 6 weeks and then monthly for 1 year . patients treated with klh ( n = 38 ) were immunised subcutaneously with 1 mg klh ; bladder instillations of 30 mg were then given weekly for 6 weeks and thereafter monthly for 1 year . the recurrence rates , disease-free intervals and tumour progression rates were evaluated . the end-point of the study was either progression in stage or grade or more than 1 recurrence during the observation period . the minimum length of follow-up was 1 year . the recurrence rates , mean disease-free intervals and progression rates in the 2 groups showed no statistically significant differences . 
short-term radiotherapy as palliative treatment in patients with transitional cell bladder cancer . we report the results and complications of treatment with palliative , short-term radiotherapy in 162 elderly or disabled patients . improvement in tumour-associated symptoms was noted in 75 of these patients and 72 survived for more than a year . those who responded to radiotherapy had a 5-year cancer-free survival rate of 58 % compared with 4 % in patients who did not respond to treatment . survival was also affected by stage and indications for radiotherapy . in 85 patients without severe symptoms , where the tumour was judged curable but the patient was unsuitable for a full course of radiotherapy , the 5-year cancer-free survival rate was 21 % , which is in accordance with what can be achieved with full-course radiotherapy ; 42 % had various minor acute side effects . the 5-year late complication rate was 7 % . 
activation of complement , kallikrein-kinin , fibrinolysis and coagulation systems by urinary catheters . effect of time and temperature in biocompatibility studies . urethral strictures induced by the use of latex catheters and combined silicone/latex catheters following open-heart surgery have been reported . these strictures differ from the post-catheterisation type in affecting a greater length of urethra . recently it was shown that complement was activated by catheters which cause inflammation , in contrast to clinically silent catheters . the present study was designed to investigate a possible association between catheter-induced inflammation and activation of another mediator of inflammation , the contact system . we also investigated various in vitro conditions to optimise biocompatibility studies . our data indicate that both the complement and the kallikrein-kinin system are activated by potentially harmful silicone/latex catheters and may be involved in the pathophysiology of catheter-induced urethral strictures . in vitro biocompatibility tests may be performed at both 20 and 37 degrees c. glass test tubes may be used for in vitro complement but not for kallikrein-kinin investigations . 
haemospermia : a prospective study . a prospective study of 74 men with haemospermia is presented . most ( 76 % ) had experienced 1 or 2 episodes only and 9 ( 12 % ) were over 40 years old . simple investigations led to a diagnosis in all 9 of these men and of those under 40 , no pathology could be detected in 48 % . a diagnosis was made in 32 of the remaining 34 men by simple investigations . in patients over 40 years of age with haemospermia , a potentially treatable cause will normally be found by routine investigation which should include cystoscopy . in younger men , non-invasive investigation alone should identify any pathology . invasive investigations should be reserved for those patients in whom the problem is prolonged , excessive or in association with other symptoms . 
vasal injuries during childhood and their effect on subsequent fertility . thirty subfertile males had testicular obstruction following inguinal or pelvic surgery in childhood . all 13 patients with bilateral obstruction were azoospermic and 6 had developed antibodies to spermatozoa . of 17 patients with unilateral obstruction , 11 had oligozoospermia and 6 had normal sperm counts : all had high titres of antibodies to spermatozoa ( a significant difference from the men with bilateral obstruction ) . this indicates that male infertility can result from vasal or epididymal injuries in childhood due either to the obstruction itself or its immunological consequences . following corrective surgery and prednisolone treatment for the antibodies , where appropriate , 5/17 patients with unilateral blocks and 1/11 with bilateral blocks successfully produced pregnancies . 
outcome of antenatally diagnosed pelviureteric junction hydronephrosis . over a 6-year period , in a series of 107 consecutive patients with antenatally detected urological anomalies , 45 had pelviureteric junction ( puj ) hydronephrosis ( 66 units ) . of these , 24 units ( 36 % ) had obstructive ( group i ) and 42 ( 64 % ) non-obstructive hydronephrosis ( group ii ) . significantly compromised renal function was found only in group i. treatment in group i was by an early pyeloplasty ; in group ii the patients were kept under close review . during the 6-year period , 2 units ( 5 % ) in group ii , deteriorated , 13 ( 31 % ) improved and 27 ( 64 % ) were unchanged . these results suggest that early in life , antenatally diagnosed puj hydronephrosis without obstruction may be a relatively benign condition but will require long-term follow-up in order to determine the natural history of the condition . 
anorectal dysfunction in patients with urologic disturbance due to multiple sclerosis . anorectal function was evaluated in 11 patients with voiding dysfunction due to multiple sclerosis . in six patients with constipation , three also had symptoms of obstructed defecation and one patient was incontinent due to stercoral diarrhea . one patient was only fecal incontinent and one patient had obstructed defecation as the only symptom . three patients had no anorectal symptoms . anal manometry in the women compared with a control group revealed significant lower anal resting and squeeze pressures , although no significant difference of rectal sensation to distention with air was found . pudendal nerve terminal latencies were obtained in seven patients and were all normal . in four patients latency could not be demonstrated due to poor contraction of the sphincter on stimulation of the pudendal nerve . two of these patients were incontinent and two had both constipation and obstructed defecation . it is concluded that patients with voiding symptoms due to multiple sclerosis often reveal anorectal symptoms or motility disorders . although anal sphincter function is reduced , fecal incontinence is not prevalent in this group . the reason for this lies probably in the fact that many of the patients are constipated , thus securing fecal continence . 
intravascular retention and renal handling of purified natural and intramolecularly cross-linked hemoglobins . plasma half time of unmodified hemoglobin ( uhb ) and two intramolecularly cross-linked hemoglobins ( alpha alpha xl and beta beta xl ) was measured in anesthetized rats after an intravenous bolus of 20 mg .100 gm.-1 to rule out the possibility that differences among plasma half times might be caused by differences in acute effects on renal excretory function , glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and effective renal plasma flow ( erpf ) were measured simultaneously with plasma half time . experiments were also done to determine whether higher doses ( 60 to 100 mg-1 .100 gm-1 ) of these compounds had a delayed effect ( 48 hours ) on gfr or erpf . massive urinary excretion of uhb occurred ; however , only 1 % of the alpha alpha xl and none of the beta beta xl was excreted . plasma half time of alpha alpha xl and beta beta xl averaged 3.3 hours , or four times longer than uhb . in no case did a decrease in gfr or erpf occur . instead , a transient increase in gfr , erpf , urine flow , and systemic blood pressure was seen . similar increases occurred after albumin administration , suggesting expansion of vascular volume as the initiating factor . renal functions at 48 hours after 60 to 100 mg .100 gm-1 of uhb , alpha alpha xl or beta beta xl were not different from control ( albumin ) . intratubular hemoglobin casts or intravascular precipitates were not evident in acute or 48-hour studies . at 48 hours perls ' staining material was found in one alpha alpha xl specimen at 3 hours after administration . perls ' staining material was present in renal tubule cells in all but the albumin-treated kidneys . 
factor xiii and its substrates , fibronectin , fibrinogen , and alpha 2-antiplasmin , in plasma and urine of patients with nephrosis . plasma and urine concentrations of factor xiii and its circulating substrates ( fibronectin , fibrinogen , and alpha 2-antiplasmin ) were measured in a group of 36 patients with nephrotic syndrome . the results were compared with those obtained in a group of 32 normal volunteers ( control group ) and 12 patients with end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) . a mild but significant reduction in plasma level and an abnormal urinary excretion of alpha 2-antiplasmin was found in the nephrotic group . plasma concentrations of factor xiii , fibronectin , and fibrinogen were significantly elevated in patients with nephrosis . in contrast , patients with esrd showed no significant difference in the plasma concentrations of either factor xiii , fibronectin , or alpha 2-antiplasmin and only a modest elevation of fibrinogen when compared with normal controls . no significant correlation was found between serum creatinine concentration and plasma levels of factor xiii and its circulating substrates in the nephrotic group . no measurable quantities of factor xiii and only small quantities of fibronectin were found in the urine of patients with nephrosis . elevation of plasma factor xiii , fibronectin , and fibrinogen concentrations in the nephrotic group is considered to be the result of a combination of increased synthesis and possibly contracted intravascular distribution of these macromolecular proteins in the face of their negligible urinary losses . the presence of the observed abnormalities in the nephrotic group and their absence in the non-nephrotic esrd group tends to exclude renal failure as a cause of these abnormalities . although the clinical significance of these abnormalities is uncertain , they can potentially contribute to the thrombophilic diathesis and platelet hyperaggregability in nephrotic syndrome . 
electrophysiology of motor pathways for sphincter control in multiple sclerosis . the central and peripheral motor pathways serving striated sphincter muscle function were studied using cortical and lumbar transcutaneous electrical stimulation , pudendal nerve stimulation and sphincter electromyography in 23 patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , and sphincter disturbance , including incontinence of urine or faeces , urinary voiding dysfunction , or constipation . the central motor conduction time was significantly increased in the ms group compared to controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . damage to both the upper and lower motor neuron pathways can contribute to sphincter disturbance in ms. the latter may be due to coexisting pathology or to involvement of the conus medullaris by ms. 
lumbosacral evoked potentials and vesicourethral function in patients with chronic suprasacral spinal cord injury . persistent detrusor acontractility despite normal somatic reflex activity in some patients with high spinal cord injury is an enigma . previous work has suggested disordered integration of afferent activity in sacral roots or the sacral spinal cord . forty male patients with chronic stable suprasacral cord lesions were studied by filling and voiding videocystometrography , and recording lumbosacral evoked potentials from posterior tibial nerve stimulation . only five of 15 patients with decreased detrusor contractility had abnormal lumbosacral evoked potentials . similar abnormalities were found in four of 11 patients with efficient hyperreflexic bladders . the finding of normal lumbosacral evoked potentials in the majority of patients with suprasacral cord injuries and decreased detrusor contractility supports the argument that the pathophysiology of this specific form of neurogenic bladder dysfunction is multifactorial . 
prognostic significance of proteinuria one year after onset of diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome . we examined the prognostic value of changes in the amount of proteinuria , measured as protein/creatinine ratios in early-morning urine samples , in 40 children who had had diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome . one year after diagnosis , 87 % of those who seemed to have fully recovered had normal urinary protein/creatinine ratios , compared with none of those with poor outcomes ( p less than 0.001 ) . none of those with poor outcomes achieved normal protein/creatinine ratios during follow-up to a maximum of 5 1/2 years , but 93 % of those who made a full clinical recovery no longer had proteinuria . measurement of the protein/creatinine ratio in an early-morning sample of urine is a simple , cost-effective , and noninvasive means of monitoring the progress of patients with diarrhea-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome , provided that a technique sensitive at low protein concentrations is employed . 
long-term outcome and prognostic indicators in the hemolytic-uremic syndrome . we examined 61 patients an average of 9.6 years ( range 5 to 18 years ) after an episode of childhood hemolytic-uremic syndrome . twenty-four ( 39 % ) had one or more abnormalities . seven ( 11 % ) had proteinuria and six ( 10 % ) had low creatinine clearance as solitary abnormalities . eight ( 13 % ) had both proteinuria and reduced creatinine clearance ; three ( 5 % ) had a combination of hypertension , proteinuria , and low creatinine clearance . abnormalities sometimes appeared after an interval of apparent recovery . logistic regression analysis showed that duration of anuria was the best predictor of disease at follow-up . no patients who had anuria lasting longer than 8 days or oliguria exceeding 15 days escaped chronic disease . however , 45 % of those with disease had no anuria , and a third had no oliguria . physicians should therefore be cautious in assuming recovery from hus on the basis of a single evaluation and should periodically evaluate patients for an extended period . 
fluorouracil and recombinant human interferon alfa-2a in the treatment of metastatic chemotherapy-refractory urothelial tumors . thirty patients with advanced metastatic and chemotherapy-refractory urothelial tumors received a combination of fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) and recombinant human interferon alfa-2a . thirty-six sites of metastases were present in the 30 study patients , and the median eastern cooperative oncology group performance status was 3 ( range , 1 to 4 ) . all patients had failed to respond to primary combined methotrexate/cisplatin-based chemotherapy . nine ( 30 % ; confidence interval , 15 % to 47 % ) of the patients achieved a partial response . the mean duration of response was more than 5.2 months ( median , 6 months ; range , 3 to 8 months ) . two patients who achieved a partial response of 5 and 7 months ' duration , respectively , had control of residual disease ( one with radiation and one with surgical excision ) and have remained disease-free for an additional period of more than 7 and 13 months , respectively . these data suggest that the combination of 5-fu and recombinant human interferon alfa-2a is synergistic , with clinical significance for the treatment of urothelial tumors . the response rate for this combination of drugs is higher than that anticipated for either of these agents used alone . additional confirmatory trials are needed to evaluate the significance of these findings . 
spontaneous renal rupture during pregnancy . spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis during pregnancy has been previously reported in 16 cases . in the case we describe in this report , the patient initially had right flank pain and nausea for 48 hours , which progressed to severe abdominal symptoms that necessitated exploratory laparotomy . cystoscopic placement of a ureteral stent relieved the obstruction and allowed spontaneous healing of the renal pelvis . dilatation of the urinary collecting system commonly occurs during pregnancy . spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis , however , is unusual and often associated with diseased kidneys . our case is the 8th one of spontaneous rupture of the renal collecting system with no identifiable underlying pathologic condition and the 17th case of spontaneous renal rupture overall . 
donating a kidney to a family member . how primary care physicians can help prepare potential donors . when a relative needs a kidney to survive , family members often impulsively offer to donate one without stopping to consider the physical , emotional , and financial ramifications , which can be considerable . the family 's primary care physician can be very helpful in guiding and educating potential donors and , by arranging for screening to be done in the community , can ease the financial strain . the authors discuss the things a potential kidney donor should consider . 
oral magnetic particles in mr imaging of the abdomen and pelvis . two phase 2 clinical trials of an oral superparamagnetic contrast agent for enhancement on magnetic resonance images of the intestine were performed . in trial 1 , 31 male patients with cancer of the testis underwent follow-up examinations of the abdomen at 0.5 and 1.5 t after oral administration of magnetic particles . in trial 2 , 31 female patients with pelvic and lower abdominal disease were examined at 1.5 t after administration of the contrast material . the patients each ingested 800 ml of contrast material over approximately 2 hours . concentrations of 0.25 and 0.5 g/l did not induce blurring or metallic artifacts . distribution was homogeneous through the gastrointestinal tract . in all patients , a loss of signal intensity was observed on proton density - , t1 - , and t2-weighted images . the diagnostic information from postcontrast images in trial 2 was greater in 16 patients ( 52 % ) . contrast enhancement was independent of field strength ; no major side effects were observed . artifacts from moving bowels were less troublesome , and delineation of intraabdominal and pelvic organs was better with the use of oral magnetic particles . 
capsular transgression of prostatic carcinoma : evaluation with transrectal us with pathologic correlation . one hundred twenty-five patients with biopsy proved clinical stage a or b prostatic carcinoma were evaluated with biplane transrectal ultrasonography ( us ) prior to radical prostatectomy . sonograms were evaluated for capsular transgression of the tumor into the posterior and posterolateral aspects of the glands as manifested by local contour deformity and irregularity or interruption of the periprostatic fat echoes . correlation of the findings at us with the findings at pathologic examination of the step sections was obtained , and the presence and depth of capsular penetration were assessed . of the 250 halves or hemispheres of the prostate gland that were evaluated , capsular penetration was seen at pathologic examination in 86 . us enabled correct identification of pericapsular tumor spread in 59 of the 86 hemispheres but did not depict pericapsular tumor spread in 27 hemispheres . absence of pericapsular tumor spread was verified at pathologic examination in 149 of the 164 hemispheres that either did not have tumor or did not show pericapsular tumor spread . pericapsular tumor spread was incorrectly diagnosed in 15 hemispheres . a positive us diagnosis of pericapsular tumor spread correlated moderately well with the depth of penetration demonstrated at pathologic examination . transrectal us is an effective noninvasive procedure that demonstrates the presence of prostatic cancer . 
prostate cancer : local staging with endorectal surface coil mr imaging . endorectal surface coil magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was used to stage the local extent of prostate cancer in 22 patients . the endorectal coil images were acquired with a 10-12-cm field of view and a 4-mm section thickness . all pathologic specimens were reviewed by one pathologist . endorectal surface coil mr imaging was 82 % accurate in the differentiation of stage b from stage c cancer . one case was overestimated , and three cases were underestimated . the three underestimated cases consisted of two cases of microscopic capsular invasion and one case of minimal seminal vesicle invasion . in a comparison of retrospective , blinded readings of endorectal coil and body coil images , there was an average improvement in accuracy of 16 % in staging prostate cancer with endorectal coil images . 
combined gadolinium-enhanced and fat-saturation mr imaging of renal masses . combined gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement and fat-saturation ( fs ) spin-echo ( se ) magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging for the detection and characterization of renal masses was evaluated in 43 patients with a total of 71 lesions ( 28 solid masses and 43 cysts ) . se mr sequences compared were the following : short repetition time ( tr ) / echo time ( te ) , conventional se , short tr/te fs se , long tr/te conventional se , gadolinium-enhanced short tr/te conventional se , and gadolinium-enhanced short tr/te fs se techniques . mr findings were compared with findings of contrast-enhanced computed tomography ( ct ) and with pathologic findings in all patients . the sensitivities for detection of renal masses with gadolinium-enhanced fs ( 71 of 71 lesions ) and with gadolinium-enhanced short tr/te conventional ( 65 of 71 lesions ) se sequences were significantly ( p less than .01 ) greater than with any unenhanced ( short tr/te conventional [ 40 of 71 lesions ] , or long tr/te [ 39 of 71 lesions ] ) se sequence . lesion characterization was also best with the gadolinium-enhanced fs se sequence ( 65 of 71 lesions correctly classified ) . when combined pre - and postcontrast short tr/te fs se images were analyzed with both qualitative ( visual ) and quantitative ( region-of-interest measurements ) assessment , lesion characterization improved even further ( 70 of 71 lesions were correctly characterized ) . all lesions detected with ct were visualized with the gadolinium-enhanced fs se mr sequence , which in addition depicted seven cysts and two small renal cell carcinomas . in summary , the use of gadopentetate dimeglumine , especially when combined with the fs technique , was superior to unenhanced mr imaging for detection and characterization of renal lesions . 
comparative study of cephradine and amoxicillin-clavulanate in the treatment of recurrent urinary tract infections . eighty-eight female patients with a history of recurrent urinary tract infections were treated according to a randomization scheme with either 1 g of cephradine every 12 h ( 47 patients ) or 375 mg of amoxicillin-clavulanate every 8 h ( 41 patients ) for 7 days . the treatments were equally effective ( cure rates of 89 % for cephradine and 88 % for amoxicillin-clavulanate ) and showed similar relapse rates ( cephradine , 14 % ; amoxicillin-clavulanate , 11 % ) . adverse effects were similar in both groups ( cephradine , 23 % ; amoxicillin-clavulanate , 22 % ) . 
saltpeter ingestion . a 37-year-old man presented to the emergency department after an attempt to self-treat his priapism with saltpeter ( k+no 3 ) . initially he had a potassium of 7.6 with electrocardiographic changes and a markedly elevated co2 . the potassium and carbon dioxide normalized in less than 24 hours with standard treatment for hyperkalemia . hyperkalemia is expected with large oral potassium ingestion ; and the elevated co2 was spurious , caused by the misreading of serum nitrates by the ektachrom 700 system . ingestion of k+no 3 should be added to the differential of hyperkalemia with a markedly elevated co2 . 
self-administered intraurethral chlorpromazine : an unusual cause of priapism . priapism is a prolonged , painful penile erection unaccompanied by sexual desire and not alleviated by ejaculation . the etiologies of priapism are numerous and diverse . priapism can be a serious adverse effect of psychotropic medications . the case of a 36-year-old man who demonstrated priapism , 48 hours after inserting a crushed chlorpromazine tablet into the urethral meatus of his penis , is reported . priapism induced by this route of drug administration has not been previously described . the pathophysiology and treatment of priapism are reviewed . 
prenatal genetic counseling . continued advances in reproductive technology and prenatal diagnosis challenge genetic counselors in their provision of appropriate prenatal genetic counseling . complex information must be communicated to the couple in a nondirective but supportive manner for the couple to make an informed decision . often pertinent information must be gathered and disseminated in a short period of time as a pregnancy continues toward the point of viability , and options become limited . prenatal genetic counseling strives to keep up with the changes in reproductive technology and prenatal diagnosis in an effort to meet the needs of the patient . 
miliary tuberculosis presenting as hepatic and renal failure . a 67-year-old man developed hepatic and renal failure over a six-day period . despite full supportive measures , he died on his 11th day of hospitalization with fulminant dic and hepatic , renal , and respiratory failure . postmortem examination revealed acid-fast bacilli in virtually all organ systems . miliary tuberculosis should be considered as a potentially treatable cause of hepatic failure . 
severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis advancing to gradual cessation with hyperbaric oxygen . we report a case of a male patient suffering from a severe hemorrhagic radiation proctitis which gradually ceased with hyperbaric oxygen . we discuss the mechanisms of chronic radiation injury and the effect of the hyperbaric oxygen . this therapy is proposed as an alternative to surgical intervention for this abnormality . 
ampullary tumor caused by metastatic renal cell carcinoma . in this paper we report the case of a renal cell carcinoma ( rcc ) metastatic to the ampullary region . the patient presented with severe anemia due to blood loss from the ampullary tumor 11 years after nephrectomy for the primary renal cancer . the diagnosis was established by means of endoscopy and biopsy . 
the impact of breakthrough clinical trials on survival in population based tumor registries . three statistical models are developed to study the impact that two breakthrough clinical trials ( mopp for hodgkin 's disease and pvb for disseminated testicular cancer ) had on survival in the connecticut tumor registry and the national cancer institute 's surveillance , epidemiology , and end results ( seer ) registry program . a segmented regression model is used in conjunction with the cox semi-parametric proportional hazards model , as well as the parametric weibull and exponential cure models . these models allow us to determine approximately when survival first began to improve dramatically , indicating that improved treatments had become available , and how long it took for survival to level off again indicating that the full population survival impact had been realized . in addition , the degree to which the parametric models fit allows us to determine if the survival improvements occur within a parametric family . results of the modelling indicate that dissemination took approximately 11 years in hodgkin 's disease while only 3 years in disseminated testicular cancer . in both disease sites survival first broke with prior trends between the time that the breakthrough trial started and its publication , indicating that earlier moderately successful ' precursor ' trials with combination chemotherapy may have initiated the improved population survival trends . reasons for the difference in dissemination time in the two cancer sites are examined in order to understand what factors may be responsible for the speed of dissemination and effective utilization of new therapies . 
routine screening for cancer of the prostate . the value of screening for prostate cancer remains unclear . although digital rectal examination , transrectal ultrasonography , and determination of serum prostate-specific antigen levels may lead to early detection of a malignancy , these procedures have never been shown to reduce disease-specific mortality from prostate cancer . unfortunately , several potential errors found in uncontrolled trials may suggest benefit from screening where none exists . only a large , randomized , controlled clinical study demonstrating decreased mortality from prostate cancer can prove that screening is beneficial . until such a study is performed , patients should be informed of both the potential benefits and the risks of screening and treatment . 
definitions , classification , and clinical presentation of urinary tract infections . urinary tract infections encompass a spectrum of clinical and pathologic conditions involving various parts of the urinary tract . each syndrome has its own unique epidemiology , natural history , and clinical manifestations . basic terminology used in describing urinary tract infections is defined in this article . a classification of these infections and their clinical features is presented . 
bacterial etiologic agents in the pathogenesis of urinary tract infection . most of the information available concerning virulence factors of uropathogens is based on studies of escherichia coli , the commonest cause of urinary tract infections . earlier studies revealed several phenotypic escherichia coli virulence factors that influenced both the anatomic level and severity of urinary tract infection . virulence factors included o antigen serotype , presence and quantity of k capsular polysaccharide , adherence to uroepithelial cells , resistance to serum bactericidal activity , hemolysin , and aerobactin production . the introduction of dna hybridization methodology has provided a valuable tool for reevaluation of the epidemiology of escherichia coli infection as well as an alternative to the conventional phenotypic approach for studying the genotypic basis for virulence . 
host defense mechanisms in the pathogenesis of urinary tract infection . certain microorganisms have a propensity for causing urinary tract infection , and the route ( either ascending or hematogenous ) by which microorganisms contaminate the urinary tract from external sources is frequently characteristic of the microorganism . there are local defense mechanisms both in the urine and at each anatomic site in the urinary tract ( urethra , bladder , ureter , and kidney ) . the defense mechanisms at one site may have opposing effects on microbial growth at other sites in the urinary tract . the outcome following entrance of microorganisms into the urinary tract is a result of competing forces , which consist of these local urinary defense mechanisms , the initial numbers of microorganisms contaminating the urinary tract , and microbial virulence factors . 
epidemiology and natural history of urinary tract infections in children . recent retrospective surveys have supported previous investigations in demonstrating the incidence of uti during infancy ; 0.3 % to 1.2 % of infants develop symptomatic uti during the first year of life . boys are more commonly infected during the first 3 months of life . after the first year , symptomatic uti is much more frequent among girls . similarly , asymptomatic bacteriuria is more frequently detected in boys than in girls during the first 12 months of life . thereafter , the incidence decreases markedly in boys but increases in girls . recent investigations indicate that lack of circumcision is a risk factor for uti among male infants . recurrent uti is common and frequently asymptomatic . the most important microbiologic factor that is associated with e. coli causing acute pyelonephritis is adherence mediated by p fimbriae . other factors , such as capsule , lipopolysaccharide , aerobactin production , and serum resistance , also determine the invasiveness of e. coli . vesicoureteral reflux appears to be an important host factor predisposing to uti . microbiologic and host factors that are determinants of renal scarring are under investigation . 
the natural history of urinary infection in adults . the vast majority of otherwise healthy adults with anatomically and functionally normal urinary tracts experience few untoward long-term consequences from symptomatic or asymptomatic utis . effective early treatment of symptomatic infection rapidly curtails bacterial invasion and the resulting inflammatory response . rarely , uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis causes suppuration and renal scarring . urinary infections in patients with renal calculi , obstructed urinary tract , neurogenic bladder , or diabetes are frequently much more destructive and have ongoing sequelae . strategies to treat both the infection and the complications are often necessary to alter this outcome . 
laboratory in the diagnosis and management of urinary tract infections . the laboratory is essential in the diagnosis and management of utis . the presence of pyuria and bacteriuria , the two most important indicators of utis , are most accurately determined by standard techniques . in quantitating pyuria , the finding of greater than or equal to 10 leukocytes/mm3 of urine by either hemocytometry or direct microscopy correlates highly with symptomatic , culture-proven utis . the determination of bacteriuria by direct microscopy is inaccurate , particularly at lower levels of bacteriuria ; thus , quantitative urine cultures remain the most accurate measure of bacteriuria . significant bacteriuria , previously defined as greater than or equal to 10 ( 5 ) cfu/ml of urine , has been redefined with the observation that as few as 10 ( 2 ) cfu/ml can be associated with significant pyuria and symptoms suggestive of cystitis . the need for routine and posttreatment urine cultures in nonpregnant women with acute dysuria remains controversial , but current data suggest that they are usually unnecessary . rapid diagnostic tests for detection of pyuria and bacteriuria are designed to increase efficiency and decrease cost in the diagnosis of uti . unfortunately , none of these techniques can quantitate pyuria or bacteriuria as accurately as the standard methods , but the level of accuracy offered by the standard methods is not always necessary in the care of patients with uncomplicated utis . these tests are particularly well suited for screening asymptomatic high-risk populations . noninvasive localization techniques continue to be explored as possible alternatives to invasive localization procedures , but they remain largely research tools that are not readily available to the practicing clinician . understanding the applicability and appropriate use of newer technologies in the evaluation of patients with utis and how these technologies complement the standard diagnostic techniques will lead to better , more efficient , and less costly patient care . 
management of urinary tract infections in children . urinary tract infection is common in children . the presentation varies with age . younger children exhibit protean signs . diagnosis is dependent on the demonstration of significant bacteriuria in a properly collected and handled urine sample . the approach to treatment depends on the degree of illness at presentation , the presence of structural urinary tract abnormalities , and the age of the patient . pathophysiology of urinary tract infection is dependent on interactive factors of the host and of the invading microorganism . urinary tract abnormalities have significant impact on the management of children with urinary tract infections , both medically and surgically . of particular importance is the observation that renal damage usually occurs within the first 5 years of life , and treatment delay in some young patients may have significant consequences . the overall prognosis in children with urinary tract infection is favorable . 
management of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infection in adults . acute uncomplicated uti is one of the most common problems for which young women seek medical attention , and it accounts for considerable morbidity and health care costs . acute cystitis is a superficial infection of the bladder mucosa , whereas pyelonephritis involves tissue invasion of the upper urinary tract . localization tests suggest that as many as one third of episodes of acute cystitis are associated with silent upper tract involvement . acute cystitis or pyelonephritis in the adult patient should be considered uncomplicated if the patient is not pregnant or elderly , if there has been no recent instrumentation or antimicrobial treatment , and if there are no known functional or anatomic abnormalities of the genitourinary tract . most of these infections are caused by e. coli , which are susceptible to many oral antimicrobials . because of the superficial nature of cystitis , single-dose and 3-day regimens have gained wide acceptance as the preferred methods of treatment . review of the published data suggests that a 3-day regimen is more effective than a single-dose regimen for all antimicrobials tested . regimens with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole appear to be more effective than those with beta-lactams , regardless of the duration . acute pyelonephritis does not necessarily imply a complicated infection . upper tract infection with highly virulent uropathogens in an otherwise healthy woman may be considered an uncomplicated infection . the optimal treatment duration for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis has not been established , and 14-day regimens are often used . we prefer to use antimicrobials that attain high renal tissue levels , such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or quinolones , for pyelonephritis . women with frequently recurring infections can be successfully managed by continuous prophylaxis , either daily or thrice-weekly , by postcoital prophylaxis , or , in compliant patients , by early self-administration of single-dose or 3-day therapy as soon as typical symptoms are noted . our drug of choice for all these regimens is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . acute uncomplicated cystitis in adult men is very uncommon , but it is occasionally noted in homosexual men who practice insertive and intercourse or in heterosexual men whose partners have vaginal colonization with e. coli . 
epidemiology , natural history , and management of urinary tract infections in pregnancy . the urinary tract undergoes profound physiologic and anatomic changes during pregnancy that facilitate the development of symptomatic utis in women with bacteriuria . although the adverse effects of asymptomatic bacteriuria on maternal and fetal health continue to be debated , it is clear that asymptomatic bacteriuria is the major risk factor for developing symptomatic uti and that symptomatic infections are associated with significant maternal and fetal risks . because the majority of symptomatic utis develop in women with bacteriuria earlier in pregnancy , treatment of bacteriuria is undertaken to prevent symptomatic infections . all women should be screened at the first antenatal visit , which is reliably and inexpensively done with a dipstick culture . short-course therapy is as effective as prolonged therapy and should be followed with a repeat culture to document clearing of the bacteriuria . failure to eliminate bacteriuria with repeated therapy or recurrence with the same organism is indicative of renal parenchymal infection or a structural abnormality . all women with persistent bacteriuria or recurrent infection should have follow-up cultures and a complete urologic evaluation after delivery . 
special problems of urinary tract infection in the elderly . bacteriuria is much more common among elderly than among younger populations , and is most often asymptomatic . asymptomatic bacteriuria in the elderly is a benign condition in the vast majority of cases and does not require therapy . when symptomatic lower uti occurs , short-course ( 3-day ) therapy with any of several agents is indicated , and is usually effective . women with frequently recurrent symptomatic uti may benefit from estrogen therapy . fourteen days of therapy is indicated in patients with upper uti . the typical signs and symptoms of pyelonephritis may be altered or absent in elderly patients . 
urinary tract infection in the impaired host . in general , defects in phagocytosis and in humoral or cellular immunity do not appear to predispose to the acquisition of uti but do influence the clinical manifestations and the severity , microbiology , and complications of infection once it is established . the incidence of uti in immunosuppressed patients other than diabetics or renal transplant recipients is not higher than the incidence in nonimmunosuppressed individuals . the higher frequencies of infection seen in diabetics and in renal transplant recipients correlate best with the duration of bladder instrumentation rather than with glycosuria or immunosuppressive regimen . neutropenia blunts the clinical manifestations of uti and predisposes to bacteremia . use of broad spectrum antibiotics results in alterations in indigenous flora , promotes urinary infections with resistant nosocomial pathogens , and predisposes to fungemia with hematogenous seeding of the urinary tract . routine screening for detection of asymptomatic bacteriuria and prompt institution of antimicrobial therapy is indicated only in renal transplant recipients within 3 months of their surgery and not in any of the other diseases discussed . 
prostatitis . several distinct types of prostatitis , or prostatitis syndromes , are now recognized . the most common forms include acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis , nonbacterial prostatitis , and prostatodynia . bacterial prostatitis , caused mainly by coliform bacteria , pseudomonas , and enterococcus faecalis , is often difficult to cure and usually requires extended therapy ( 4-16 weeks ) with an appropriate antimicrobial agent that achieves therapeutic levels in the prostatic secretory system . about 90 % of men with prostatitis have nonbacterial prostatitis or prostatodynia . nonbacterial prostatitis is an inflammation of the prostate of unknown cause . patients with prostatodynia typically have sterile cultures and normal prostatic secretions but demonstrate an acquired voiding dysfunction on videourodynamic testing . because nonbacterial types of prostatitis have no recognized infectious cause , treatment using antimicrobial agents is ineffective and unwarranted . 
radiology of renal infection . radiology plays a key role in the diagnosis and treatment of renal inflammatory diseases . the efficacious use of the various imaging modalities in evaluating renal inflammatory disease requires knowledge of their attributes as well as their weaknesses . we review the available studies and use of contrast agents , and illustrate radiologic findings in specific inflammatory disease processes . 
the role of the urologist in urinary tract infection . the urologist 's role in urinary tract infections will vary according to the situation . urologists do give primary care , consult , define anatomic abnormalities , surgically correct abnormalities , and do basic research in the field of urinary tract infections . urologists are essential in diagnosing and managing cases with infections behind obstructions and working out the differential diagnoses of chronic prostatitis . 
the catheter and urinary tract infection . catheter-associated bacteriuria is the most common infection acquired in hospitals and nursing homes . this infection would be even more common but for the use of the closed catheter system . most modifications have not improved upon the closed catheter itself . however , even with meticulous care , this system will not prevent bacteriuria forever . after bacteriuria develops , our ability to limit its complications is minimal . additionally , the catheterized urinary tract becomes a reservoir of bacteria that can be transferred to other patients . once a catheter is put in place , one must keep two important concepts in mind : ( 1 ) keep the catheter system closed in order to postpone the onset of bacteriuria ; and ( 2 ) remove the catheter as soon as possible . if the catheter can be removed before bacteriuria develops , postponement becomes prevention . however , the best prevention is not to use a urethral catheter at all . non-device alternatives to urethral catheterization should be used whenever possible . if these are not useful or successful , then other devices might be considered . for incontinent men , a condom catheter is a useful alternative . for patients with urinary retention , intermittent or suprapubic catheterization may be options for both short-term and long-term needs . the roles of these alternatives to urethral catheters must be defined by controlled trials . 
urinary tract infection : economic considerations . urinary tract infection results in significant morbidity and mortality while consuming large amounts of national resources . the prevention , diagnosis , and treatment of urinary tract infection produce both costs and benefits , and economic analysis provides a rational framework for looking at these effects . the goals and methods of economic analysis in medicine are summarized , and strategies to address uncomplicated cystitis , nosocomial urinary tract infection , and pyelonephritis are reviewed , with an emphasis on the economic trade-offs faced by decision makers . 
transient oliguria with renal tubular dysfunction after a 90 km running race . in the course of a 19-d study of renal function in five ultramarathon runners , before , during and after a 90 km race , one runner developed transient oliguria with renal tubular dysfunction and anuria during and immediately after the race . other features of the renal failure were an 84-fold increase in urine beta 2-microglobulin excretion ( from 0.19 to 16.0 micrograms.min-1 ) and a much smaller increase in urine total protein excretion ( from 0.07 to 0.18 mg.min-1 ) during the post-race period . post-race creatinine clearance remained below pre-race levels throughout the study , varying between 42.8 and 72.9 ml.min-1 , in contrast to the post-race 49 % increase in the remaining runners ( from 138.1 + / - 12.9 to 205.5 + / - 59.9 ml.min-1 ) . osmolal clearance also remained low ( 0.31 to 0.98 ml.min-1 ) compared with the pre-race values ( 1.46 + / - 0.02 ml.min-1 ) , as did the urine flow rates ( 0.11 to 0.18 ml.min-1 ) compared with the pre-race values ( 0.34 + / - 0.02 ml.min-1 ) . this renal dysfunction persisted despite the patient receiving 2 l of intravenous fluids immediately after the race and probably resulted from fluid restriction during the race . there was full recovery of renal function 1 yr later when the subject again ran the comrades marathon . 
photosensitized destruction of human bladder carcinoma cells treated with chlorin e6-conjugated microspheres . a photosensitizer conjugate , chlorin e6 ( ce6 ) covalently bound to 1-micron-diameter polystyrene microspheres , has been investigated in the photodynamic destruction of mgh-u1 human bladder carcinoma cells in vitro . the microspheres were taken up avidly by the carcinoma cells ; confocal laser scanning fluorescence microscopy showed them to be localized in the cytoplasm , apparently within lysosomes , visualized by labeling with acridine orange . in contrast , fluorescence of unconjugated ce6 was present within most cellular membranes . use of ce6-microsphere conjugates led to a 20-fold-higher mean intracellular concentration , compared with unconjugated ce6 . cells incubated in the presence of ce6-microsphere conjugates ( 0.43 microm equivalent ) and subsequently irradiated at 659 nm with a dye laser pumped by an argon-ion laser showed dose-dependent phototoxicity , leading to total inhibition of colony formation at a radiant exposure of 5j/cm2 ; in contrast , cells incubated with either unconjugated ce6 ( 0.43 microm ) or unconjugated microspheres before laser irradiation were unaffected . cells pretreated with ce6-microsphere conjugates and irradiated in the presence of 90 % 2h2o showed significantly increased phototoxicity , an effect consistent with an important role for excited-state singlet oxygen in the mechanism of injury . in solution , however , photosensitized generation of singlet oxygen with ce6-microsphere conjugates was 9 times less efficient than with unconjugated ce6 . the markedly greater phototoxicity of ce6-microsphere conjugates compared to unconjugated ce6 was therefore a consequence of the high intracellular ce6 concentration attained by phagocytosis of the conjugates and their particular sites of intracellular localization . thus , these conjugates are an efficient system for the delivery of photosensitizing drugs to carcinoma cells . 
tumoral thrombosis of cerebral venous sinuses : preoperative diagnosis using magnetic resonance phase imaging . intracranial , dural-based neoplasms will not infrequently invade adjacent venous sinuses . therefore , the preoperative diagnosis of venous invasion is important , as it will alter the surgical approach to the lesion . magnetic resonance imaging is a noninvasive means of visualizing the cerebral venous sinuses . the preoperative diagnosis of venous thrombosis can , however , be difficult and confusing with conventional spin-echo magnetic resonance imaging because of variable appearances produced by blood clot degradation products as well as flowing blood . phase magnetic resonance imaging is a simple method that can be acquired simultaneously with conventional spin-echo sequences , and is based primarily on whether protons are stationary or moving . in the context of venous sinus occlusion , phase imaging can demonstrate the presence or absence of blood flow more easily than spin-echo imaging . three cases of dural-based neoplasms are presented that demonstrate the utility of phase imaging in diagnosing tumoral occlusion of the venous sinuses . 
hemolytic transfusion reaction following transfusion of frozen and washed autologous red cells a case of hemolytic transfusion reaction , accompanied by hypotension and followed by transient renal failure , occurred after the transfusion of 1 unit of previously frozen autologous red cells . subsequent investigation revealed the probable cause of the hemolysis to be inadequate deglycerolization of the unit . the cause of the associated symptoms is unknown . possibilities include nephrotoxic effects of hemoglobin or stroma , toxic effects of glycerol , or release of vasoactive or thrombogenic substances from lysed red cells . this case of a hemolytic reaction adds to the known risks of autologous transfusion . 
granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma . their distinction with the use of immunohistochemical methods . granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma can mimic each other both clinically and histologically . to develop criteria useful in resolving problem cases , the authors compared the reactivities of these conditions ( nine cases of granulomatous prostatitis and six cases of poorly differentiated carcinoma ) with a panel of antibodies to cytokeratin ( ae1/3 ) , prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) , prostatic acid phosphatase ( pap ) , lysozyme , antimacrophage m , and leukocyte common antigen ( lca ) . in granulomatous prostatitis , histiocytes were not immunoreactive for pap , psa , or cytokeratin ; however , histiocytes reacted to lysozyme in nine of nine cases , antimacrophage m in seven of nine cases , and lca in one of nine cases . tumor cells from all six carcinoma cases reacted with pap , psa , and cytokeratin ; all failed to react with lysozyme , lca , and antimacrophage m. the authors conclude that granulomatous prostatitis and poorly differentiated carcinoma can be reliably distinguished with immunohistochemical methods . 
immunotactoid glomerulopathy . during the past 10 years , immunotactoid glomerulopathy has become recognized with increasing frequency . the lesion is characterized histologically by highly organized ultrastructural deposits that appear to be composed of immunoglobulin and complement and are negative for amyloid by congo red stain . clinically and/or serologically , patients have no evidence of cryoglobulinemia , amyloidosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , or a paraproteinemia , disorders associated with glomerular deposits , which also have a highly organized tactoidal or fibrillar characteristic . immunotactoid glomerulopathy does not appear to be a multisystemic disease process and thus may represent a primary glomerulopathy . patients with immunotactoid glomerulopathy present with proteinuria ( nephrotic range in more than 60 % ) and over half of the patients have hypertension , hematuria , and renal insufficiency . progression to end stage renal disease has occurred in more than 40 % of patients reported to date . the experience in treating this disorder using prednisone and/or immunosuppression is limited and has not been impressive . four patients have successfully undergone renal transplantation , but proteinuria recurred in two and was associated with the recurrence of immunotactoid glomerulopathy in the renal allograft . although we have gained insight into the clinical course and histopathology of this disorder over the past few years , we still know little about its pathogenesis , an area for further research . 
prolonged survival with a remnant kidney . surgical ablation of five-sixths renal mass in munich-wistar rats fed a high protein diet leads to focal sclerosis in the remnant kidney and progressive renal failure . experimental data suggest that this injury results from intraglomerular hypertension and/or chronic glomerular hyperfiltration . data in humans largely are limited to patients with unilateral renal agenesis or uninephrectomy , either for unilateral renal disease or for kidney transplant donation . isolated case reports have documented focal sclerosis and progressive renal failure in two patients with a remnant kidney . to obtain data in humans with a remnant kidney , we surveyed more than 800 urologists and nephrologists in the united states and abroad . criteria for inclusion in the study were ( 1 ) surgical resection ( in one or more operations ) resulting in the presence of a remnant kidney ; and ( 2 ) an adequate period of follow-up , defined as 5 years or greater . a total of 13 patients were identified ( from 13 different centers ) . twelve patients had renal cancer and one had tuberculosis . six patients were observed for 10 or more years postoperatively and all have stable serum creatinine levels of less than 270 mumol/l ( 3.0 mg/dl ) ; two of these six patients are now more than 25 and 30 years postoperation . the other seven patients , observed for 5 to 7 years , have serum creatinine levels less than 270 mumol/l ( 3 mg/dl ) , while one has an increasing serum creatinine level . the two longest surviving patients both have undergone successful pregnancy with no overall change in serum creatinine . these observations demonstrate that it is possible for humans to survive more than 30 years with a stable serum creatinine , despite the presence of only a remnant kidney . 
renal function after tumor enucleation in a solitary kidney . whether extensive ablation of renal mass in humans leads to progressive glomerulosclerosis , proteinuria , and hypertension , as it does in animal models , is a matter of controversy . we have studied kidney function in six patients who underwent enucleation of a renal cell carcinoma in a solitary kidney . four patients had previously had a nephrectomy . the two others each had one atrophic , nonfunctioning kidney . serum creatinine levels before surgery were within the normal range ( mean , 99.9 mumol/l [ 1.13 mg/dl ] ) . two weeks after tumor enucleation , creatinine levels were significantly higher than the preoperative values ( mean , 124.6 mumol/l [ 1.41 mg/dl ] ) . the follow-up period varied from 10 to 23 months . in all patients , kidney function improved during the following months . serum creatinine levels nearly reached preoperative values in all patients ( mean , 105.2 mumol/l [ 1.19 mg/dl ] ) . none of the patients showed a progressive deterioration in renal function or proteinuria . we found a modest increase in blood pressure in two patients who had been normotensive before surgery . in conclusion , tumor enucleation in a solitary kidney did not cause significant renal injury to the remnant kidneys in our patients , at least in the short term . 
evaluation of hemodialysis patients treated with erythropoietin . we evaluated 20 hemodialysis patients who had been treated with erythropoietin ( epo ) . all patients had hemoglobin levels below 8.5 g/dl . they were randomized to receive either epo ( 100 u/kg ) or placebo three times per week for 12 weeks . all patients on epo had a significant ( p less than 0.001 ) elevation of hematocrit levels ( 19.7 % v 35.7 % ) . they also had a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) increase in midweek predialysis blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) levels , 27.8 versus 29.6 mmol/l ( 78 v 83 mg/dl ) , and serum phosphorus , 1.8 versus 2.1 mm/l ( 5.7 v 6.6 mg/dl ) . protein catabolic rate also increased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) . no changes were seen in the levels of serum creatinine and potassium , but episodes of hyperkalemia were more frequent in patients on epo . no changes were seen in patients on placebo . when hematocrit increased , the clearance of blood-water for urea decreased 9 % , and the clearance of creatinine , potassium , and phosphorus decreased 15 % . patients on epo increased both their appetite and protein intake . more frequent episodes of hyperkalemia and elevated phosphorus level resulted from a combination of increased intake and decreased dialyzer clearance . we may need blood-water clearance to calculate kt/v . 
plasma terminal complement complexes in acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis . in most instances of acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( apsgn ) , activation of the complement system occurs , as reflected by decreased levels of the complement proteins c3 , c5 , and properdin ( p ) . recent studies implicate terminal complement complexes ( tcc ) in the pathogenesis of glomerular injury . the fluid phase tcc , sc5b-9 , reflects the formation of membrane-bound c5b-9 and has been used as a clinical marker in various diseases . plasma concentrations of sc5b-9 were measured with an enzyme immunoassay using a monoclonal antibody to a neoantigen expressed on the sc5b-9 complex in 13 children who presented with clinical and pathologic features of apsgn . sc5b-9 was significantly elevated in all plasmas obtained within 30 days after onset of clinical glomerulonephritis . concentrations of sc5b-9 in acute plasmas were significantly higher than those of paired convalescent samples . for individual patients , as sc5b-9 concentration returned to normal there was a coincident decrease in serum creatinine concentration and urinary protein excretion , signifying clinical improvement in glomerulonephritis . thus , tcc generation commonly occurs in the early stages of apsgn and may be of importance in the pathogenesis of the condition . 
low-protein diet and glomerular size-selective function in membranous glomerulopathy . we studied the effect of dietary protein restriction on glomerular function and proteinuria in nine patients with membranous nephropathy . patients were randomly assigned to a 3-month period of a normal protein diet ( npd , 1.3 mg/kg/d ) or of a low-protein diet ( lpd , 0.6 mg/kg/d ) , in a cross-over design . dietary protein restriction did not affect glomerular filtration rate ( 47.8 + / - 10.7 and 49.0 + / - 13.5 ml/min/1 .73 m2 , lpd and npd , respectively ) and renal plasma flow ( 456 + / - 119 and 499 + / - 161 ml/min/1 .73 m2 , lpd and npd , respectively ) , nor did it significantly improve glomerular permselective function , as shown by urinary protein excretion ( 3.1 + / - 2.2 and 3.5 + / - 2.8 g/d , lpd and npd , respectively ) and fractional clearance of albumin , igg , and neutral dextran molecules of graded molecular size ( radii ranging from 2.8 to 6.0 nm ) . these results indicate that reduction of protein intake to 0.6 g/kg/d does not improve glomerular size selectivity in membranous nephropathy . thus , in current clinical practice , a protein-restricted diet does not appear to be effective in reducing proteinuria in this category of patients . 
nephrotic proteinuria without hypoalbuminemia : clinical characteristics and response to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition . although hypoalbuminemia is a fundamental characteristic of nephrotic syndrome ( ns ) , there are many patients with massive proteinuria that do not develop hypoalbuminemia . we have studied the clinical and biochemical characteristics of 19 patients with persistent massive proteinuria ( greater than 5 g/d ) and normal serum albumin ( group i ) in comparison with 16 patients with similar proteinuria excretion , but persistent hypoalbuminemia ( group ii ) . most of group i patients had diagnoses suggesting glomerular hyperfiltration ( focal glomerulosclerosis [ fgs ] associated with vesicoureteral reflux [ vur ] , reduction of renal mass , proteinuria associated with obesity , sclerotic phase of idiopathic crescentic glomerulonephritis [ gn ] in contrast with those of group ii , in which membranous gn was the most frequent diagnosis . we prospectively investigated differences in the antiproteinuric effect of captopril , an antiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor ( acei ) ; after 6 months of treatment , proteinuria decreased clearly in group i ( 7.1 + / - 1.7 to 3.7 + / - 1.7 g/d ; p less than 0.001 ) , whereas no significant changes were observed in group ii ( 8.1 + / - 2.4 to 8.8 + / - 4 g/d ) . serum creatinine ( scr ) remained stable during captopril treatment in group i , whereas three patients in group ii showed a worsening of renal function . 
acute glomerulonephritis in a patient with rocky mountain spotted fever . it is generally assumed that acute tubular necrosis is the etiology of renal failure that can occur during the course of rocky mountain spotted fever ( rmsf ) . however , histologic examination of kidneys has been mainly limited to autopsy cases of fulminant infections . acute glomerulonephritis due to glomerular immune complex deposition has not been reported in rmsf . we describe a case of acute oliguric renal failure that developed more than 2 weeks following the onset of rmsf . renal biopsy showed acute glomerulonephritis with inflammatory cell infiltration and subendothelial immune deposits . thus , acute glomerulonephritis should be in the differential diagnosis of acute renal failure that occurs in rmsf . 
combined hepatic and renal transplantation in primary hyperoxaluria type i : clinical report of nine cases . purpose and patients and methods : the purpose of this article is to report the experience of three centers with combined hepatic and renal transplantation for pyridoxine-resistant primary hyperoxaluria type i ( alanine : glyoxylate aminotransferase [ ec 2.6.1.44 ] deficiency ) , with particular emphasis on the selection criteria and timing of the operation . nine patients with this inherited disease were treated by combined hepatic and renal transplantation . the former replaces the enzyme-deficient organ while the latter replaces the functionally affected organ . results : one patient with gross systemic oxalosis died in the immediate postoperative period and another died 8 weeks postoperatively of a generalized cytomegalovirus infection , having shown evidence of biochemical correction . one patient with particularly severe osteodystrophy at the time of the operation died 14 months postoperatively from renal failure due to progressive calcium oxalate nephrocalcinosis involving the transplanted kidney , plus thromboembolic disease . he also had very extensive systemic oxalosis . an additional patient with severe osteodystrophy died 9 months postoperatively . one patient developed hyper-rejection of the kidney and died later of gastrointestinal hemorrhage . the four long-term survivors ( 22 to 38 months ) have remained asymptomatic from the standpoint of their renal disease , with resolution of any manifestations of systemic oxalosis that they may have had . they are either employed or continuing their education . conclusions : a prolonged period of end-stage renal failure treated by dialysis regimens that are suitable for non-hyperoxaluric renal failure and extensive systemic oxalosis , particularly oxalotic osteodystrophy , are poor prognostic features . we propose that hepatic transplantation should be considered as definitive treatment before end-stage renal failure develops . this should be supplemented by renal transplantation with vigorous pre - and perioperative hemodialysis to deplete the body stores of oxalate . although some authorities would reserve hepatic transplantation for patients in whom renal transplantation has failed , we suggest that combined liver and kidney transplantation is appropriate in patients who have never had a renal graft . furthermore , the time has come to consider hepatic transplantation before any irreversible renal damage has occurred in these patients . 
poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker . phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal , anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals . its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer , safer drugs . we report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache . he developed grand mal seizures , coma , hypotension , respiratory and renal failure , and hepatic injury . serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/ml . the patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis . 
management of acute pyelonephritis in an emergency department observation unit . study objectives : to determine whether moderately to severely ill patients with acute pyelonephritis can be treated successfully on an outpatient basis , and whether any aspect of history , physical examination , or initial laboratory data predicts failure of outpatient therapy and the need for hospitalization . design : retrospective chart review of all patients with a diagnosis of acute pyelonephritis seen during a three-year period . setting : emergency department observation unit of an urban teaching hospital serving residents of the city and county of denver . type of participants : women between the ages of 15 and 50 with symptoms , physical examination , and initial laboratory data consistent with a diagnosis of pyelonephritis . interventions : patients received iv antibiotics , rehydration , analgesics , and antiemetics in an observation unit for up to 12 hours , when they were either admitted to the hospital or discharged home on oral antibiotics . measurements and main results : sixty-three of 87 patients ( 72 % ) with acute pyelonephritis were managed successfully as outpatients , nine ( 22 % ) were hospitalized directly from the observation unit because they were considered to be too ill to go home , and five ( 6 % ) returned with persistent symptoms after ed therapy and were hospitalized . no clinical or laboratory variable predicted success or failure of ed observation unit therapy at the time of initial presentation . conclusion : in selected patients , the observation unit may be used to initiate therapy for acute pyelonephritis . those with an adequate clinical response to initial treatment may be discharged on oral antibiotic therapy with appropriate follow-up . 
treatment of pyelonephritis in an observation unit . study objective : to determine the feasibility of managing patients with acute pyelonephritis as outpatients after initial treatment with iv antibiotics in an emergency department observation unit . design : prospective and uncontrolled . setting : ed observation unit . type of participants : nonpregnant female patients 14 years old or older without immunocompromise or serious underlying disease and no evidence of septic shock . interventions : all patients received two iv doses of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole at a 12-hour dosing interval and promethazine and acetaminophen as needed for nausea and fever , respectively . baseline laboratory data , urinalysis , and urine and blood cultures were obtained . measurements and main results : patients were observed for signs of septic shock , nausea , vomiting , and the ability to tolerate an oral intake . at the end of the observation period , 43 of 44 patients were discharged on oral trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole . one additional patient who was doing well clinically was recalled and admitted because of a positive blood culture . conclusion : patients with acute pyelonephritis , despite significant fever or nausea and vomiting , can be treated effectively as outpatients after a brief period of observation and iv antibiotics . 
experience with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) in patients with renal impairment . digibind is a purified antigen binding fragment ( fab ) of immunoglobulin g antibodies raised to bind digoxin . studies in animals suggest renal excretion accounts for a substantial portion of fab 's elimination . thus it is expected that elimination of antidigoxin fab fragments would be prolonged in patients with renal impairment ; it remains unclear whether digoxin might be released with possible recurrence of toxicity . to shed light on this potential for recrudescent digitalis toxicity following release of bound digoxin , the author scrutinized the records of patients with impaired renal function who were treated with digibind . data are available from three sources : the original multicenter investigation of digibind in 150 patients with life-threatening digoxin or digitoxin toxicity , a postmarketing surveillance study of 745 patients treated with digibind , and all other reports in the literature or to burroughs wellcome co of physician experience with any antidigoxin fab . sixty percent of patients in the multicenter trial and 80 % of patients in the postmarketing surveillance trial had some degree of renal impairment . patients with poor renal function had no evidence of decreased effectiveness or safety either in terms of percent of patients responding , onset of effect or evidence of recrudescence . from all sources the authors identified 28 patients treated with fab who were functionally anephric . twenty-seven of these patients had no evidence of recrudescent toxicity . one patient was reported to have complete resolution of digoxin-induced third-degree atrioventricular ( av ) block , but av block recurred 10 days after fab treatment and persisted for 10 days thereafter . although this case offers the only clinical evidence suggesting recrudescence can occur , there were no likely alternative explanations for the clinical findings . 
kinetic modeling of intracellular ph and comparison with 31p nmr experimental values in dialysed uremic patients . changes in intra-erythrocytic ph values over time , during and after bicarbonate hemodialysis , were studied with 31p nuclear magnetic resonance . simultaneously , ph values of whole blood were obtained by a gazometric method . a two-compartment model appeared to be the simplest kinetic model to explain the shifts in proton concentrations in extra - and intra-cellular media . non-linear regression was used to determine exchange constant values . there was a very good correlation between the experimental and calculated proton concentrations . this model can describe all patients but individual experimental constants must be determined . under these conditions a single blood ph determination before dialysis will permit determination of the initial intra-erythrocytic ph and monitoring of intra-erythrocytic ph during hemodialysis . 
a new cause of female pseudohermaphroditism : placental aromatase deficiency . a description is presented of the first documented case of placental aromatase deficiency . the deficiency caused maternal virilization during pregnancy and pseudohermaphroditism of the female fetus . a 24-yr-old primigravida showed progressive virilization during the third trimester . urinary excretion of estrogen was less than 14 mumol/day between 35-38 weeks of pregnancy , although nonstress tests showed reactive patterns and serum levels of human placental lactogen were above 460 nmol/l . maternal serum levels of estrogens were low , and those of androgens were high in the third trimester . a dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate loading test induced a marked increase in maternal serum levels of androgens , whereas no such increase was observed in estrogens . the woman delivered vaginally a live full-term infant who exhibited female pseudohermaphroditism . cord serum levels of estrogens were extremely low , while those of androgens were high . the aromatase activity of the placenta , determined by the conversion of [ 7-3h ] androstenedione to 17 beta - [ 7-3h ] estradiol and [ 7-3h ] estrone , were less than 0.03 fmol/microgram protein.min ( control , 9.6 + / - 2.2 fmol/microgram protein.min ) . the sulfatase activity of the placenta was 0.63 pmol/microgram protein.min compared to 0.46 + / - 0.16 pmol/microgram protein.min in controls . the rate of aromatization by normal control placentas was the same as that obtained during coincubation of samples of normal placentas and that of the patient . thus , the presence of aromatase inhibitor in the patient 's placenta was excluded . 
the n-terminal sequence of the major erythropoietic factor of an anephric patient is identical to insulin-like growth factor i. the erythropoietic factors present in an anephric patient with nearly normal hematocrit were isolated from plasma by reversed-phase and gel permeation hplc . the most active fraction was purified and the analysis of its n-terminal sequence was identical to the published sequence of the human insulin-like growth factor i ( igf i ) . recombinant human igf i had identical elution positions as the isolated erythropoietic factor on reversed-phase hplc and the same molecular weight on gel permeation hplc . furthermore , hrigf i stimulated erythroid colony formation in human bone marrow cultures as was previously shown for the isolated human erythropoietic factor . these results suggest that igf i may replace erythropoietin as a stimulator of erythropoiesis in some patients with anemia and renal failure . 
measurement of urinary lipopolysaccharide antibodies by elisa as a screen for urinary tract infection . five hundred and twenty two clinical urine specimens submitted for routine microbiological examination were tested in parallel by conventional microscopy and culture and for lipopolysaccharide antibodies by an enzyme linked immunoabsorbent assay ( elisa ) to assess the elisa as a screen for urinary tract infection . when the elisa alone was compared with routine methods the specificity sensitivity , and predictive value of positive and negative tests was 73.2 % , 75.7 % , 51.1 % and 38.5 % . for elisa with microscopy the same variables were 71.1 % , 82.2 % , and 92.4 % and 94.7 % , respectively . the elisa absorbency increased with increasing bacterial numbers , but results varied widely . only 65.4 % of urines which contained greater than or equal to 10 ( 5 ) bacteria/ml were positive by elisa ; 36.8 % of urines with less than 10 ( 3 ) bacteria/ml were positive by elisa ; 100 % of greater than or equal to 10 ( 5 ) bacteria/ml cultures of pseudomonas sp ( n = 4 ) , staphylococcus aureus ( n = 3 ) , and streptococcus faecalis ( n = 2 ) were positive by elisa but only 71.4 % of proteus sp ( n = 7 ) , 61.4 % coliforms ( n = 70 ) , and 25 % of coagulase negative staphylococci ( n = 4 ) . it is concluded that further development is required before the elisa can be used for routine screening for urinary tract infection . 
contrasting effects of lisinopril and nifedipine on albuminuria and tubular transport functions in insulin dependent diabetics with nephropathy . an open , randomized , cross-over study was undertaken to assess the effects of lisinopril and nifedipine on albumin excretion , renal haemodynamics and segmental tubular reabsorption in overt diabetic nephropathy . the study consisted of a 4-week run-in period , a 3-week active treatment period , a 4-week wash-out period and a second 3-week active treatment period . twelve patients with type 1 diabetes with albuminuria , mild to moderate hypertension and a serum creatinine level of less than 200 mumol l-1 were included . lisinopril reduced albumin excretion from 1343 + / - 337 micrograms min-1 to 879 + / - 299 micrograms min-1 ( p less than 0.01 ) , whereas nifedipine was without effect , 1436 + / - 336 micrograms min-1 vs. 1319 + / - 342 micrograms min-1 . glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) was unchanged by either drug . both drugs increased effective renal plasma flow ( erpf ) by about 20 % . no differences between the drugs were observed with regard to their effect on renal haemodynamic parameters . by contrast , nifedipine exerted an inhibitory effect on several proximal tubular transport markers , whereas lisinopril was without effect . the different actions on tubular transport mechanisms exerted by lisinopril and nifedipine may contribute to the observed effect on albumin excretion . 
the role of adjuvant chemotherapy following cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer : a prospective comparative trial . we assigned 91 patients with deeply invasive , pathological stage p3 , p4 or n + and mo transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder ( with or without squamous or glandular differentiation ) to adjuvant chemotherapy or to observation after radical cystectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection . for most patients chemotherapy was planned as 4 courses at 28-day intervals of 100 mg . / m. 2 cisplatin , 60 mg . / m. 2 doxorubicin and 600 mg . / m. 2 cyclophosphamide . a significant delay was shown in the time to progression ( p = 0.0010 ) with 70 % of the patients assigned to chemotherapy free of disease at 3 years compared to 46 % in the observation group . median survival time for patients in the chemotherapy group was 4.3 years compared to 2.4 years in the observation group ( p = 0.0062 ) . in addition to treatment groups , important prognostic factors included age , gender and lymph node status . the number of involved lymph nodes was the single most important variable . we recommend adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with invasive transitional cell carcinoma after definitive surgical resection . 
spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage : imaging and management . we report on 10 patients with spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage associated with underlying disease , including renal cell carcinoma ( 5 ) , angiomyolipoma ( 2 ) , malignant melanoma ( 1 ) , periarteritis nodosa ( 1 ) and severe portal hypertension ( 1 ) . the etiology could not be identified with computerized tomography ( ct ) in 5 cases ( 50 % ) , including 2 renal cell carcinomas , 1 angiomyolipoma , 1 periarteritis nodosa and 1 portal hypertension . arteriography demonstrated underlying lesions in 4 of these 5 cases ( 80 % ) including the case of vasculitis . ct combined with magnetic resonance imaging is accurate for the diagnosis of spontaneous perinephric hemorrhage but the underlying pathological condition is often undetectable in the acute phase due to the perinephric blood . ct should be the first study performed if this diagnosis is suspected . arteriography is recommended if a renal mass is not detected . if a mass is not identified with these 2 imaging studies and the patient is clinically stable , followup thin slice ct should be performed . 
partial nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma : indications , results and implications . of 52 patients who underwent partial nephrectomy for tumor 44 were found to have renal cell carcinoma . the indications for this parenchyma-sparing procedure were categorized according to the initial status of the contralateral kidney and included bilateral tumors or tumor in a solitary kidney in 16 patients ( mandatory indications ) , unilateral carcinoma with compromise of the contralateral kidney by a benign disease process in 9 ( relative indications ) and small peripheral tumor with a normal contralateral kidney in 19 ( elective indications ) . there were 4 recurrences that accounted for 3 deaths , all in patients with mandatory indications . all patients who underwent partial nephrectomy for relative or elective indications were without definite evidence of recurrent disease at last followup ( over-all mean 36 months ) . our results suggest that conservative surgery can often provide effective and advantageous therapy for renal cancer and we encourage further consideration of the role of partial nephrectomy as an alternative to radical nephrectomy in selected patients with small peripheral tumors and normal contralateral kidneys . 
percutaneous nephrolithotomy and the solitary kidney . we reviewed 53 patients with stones in a solitary kidney who had undergone percutaneous nephrolithotomy . previous surgery on that kidney had been performed in 35.8 % , and 50.9 % had other medical conditions including 26.4 % who had impaired renal function . staghorn or partial staghorn calculi were present in 52.9 % and an additional 18.8 % had multiple stones . postoperative complications in 18.8 % of the patients included sepsis , the need for transfusion and 1 death of bronchopneumonia . percutaneous nephrolithotomy alone resulted in a 77.3 % rate free of stone or fragments of 2 mm , or less . this rate increased to 86.8 % with the addition of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy , ureteroscopy or open surgery ( 2 patients ) . only 1 patient suffered long-term deterioration in renal function . percutaneous nephrolithotomy is a safe procedure in the solitary kidney . it should be considered in those patients with complex stone burdens and impaired renal function when reduction in stone bulk and improved renal function may allow other treatment modalities to be used . 
percutaneous nephrolithotomy for calculi in horseshoe kidneys . between 1983 and 1988 , 15 patients ( 18 kidneys ) underwent percutaneous nephrolithotomy at this unit for calculi in horseshoe kidneys . a standard 1-stage percutaneous access technique with minor modifications was used . in situ disintegration with ultrasound or electrohydraulic lithotripsy was necessary in 15 moieties ( 83.3 % ) and nephrostomy drainage was required in 12 ( 66.7 % ) . percutaneous access was not a problem and there were minimal perioperative problems . blood transfusion was required postoperatively in 2 patients . a total of 14 kidneys ( 77.8 % ) were rendered free of stone with percutaneous nephrolithotomy alone and 2 kidneys were left with asymptomatic stone fragments of 2 mm . or less . another 2 kidneys became free of stone after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy , thus giving an over-all stone clearance rate of 88.8 % . we conclude that percutaneous nephrolithotomy is an acceptable treatment for stones in horseshoe kidneys and it is the treatment of choice for patients in whom imaging is difficult or impossible . 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of urinary calculi : experience in treatment of 3,278 patients using the siemens lithostar and lithostar plus . between march 1986 and june 1989 , 3,278 patients with upper urinary tract calculi were treated at our medical center with the lithostar lithotriptor . the stones were located in the calices in 41.9 % of the cases , renal pelvis in 25.7 % and ureter in 32.4 % . perirenal hematoma was noted in 0.5 % of the patients but this resolved spontaneously within a few days . auxiliary procedures were performed in 37.3 % of the cases , including double-j stent and ureteral catheter in 26.8 % , ureterorenoscopy in 2.1 % , percutaneous nephrostomy in 1.6 % , zeiss loop in 4.3 % and percutaneous nephrolithotripsy in 3.5 % . of the treatments 83.1 % were performed without general or regional anesthesia . followup after 3 months showed a 63.8 % rate free of stone . the lithostar upgraded with the overhead lithotripsy module is called lithostar plus . a total of 25 patients with upper urinary stones underwent treatment with the overhead module . initial experience revealed fragmentation of stones after the first session in 20 patients , while a second session was necessary in 5 . analgesic sedation was used in 4 patients in whom a double-j stent was inserted . 
treatment of steinstrasse with repeat extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy : experience with piezoelectric lithotriptor . among 958 patients with renal stones who underwent extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) monotherapy using an edap-lt01 piezoelectric lithotriptor steinstrasse developed in 55 ( 5.7 % ) . of these 55 cases stone fragments passed spontaneously in 35 ( 63.6 % ) and were treated successfully ( no residual stone fragment in ureter ) with repeat eswl in 18 ( 32.8 % ) . only 2 patients ( 3.6 % ) required ureteroscopic management or open ureterolithotomy . therefore , repeat eswl is considered a good initial method to treat complicated steinstrasse . 
a seromuscular stripping method to create a nipple valve without metal stapling for continent urinary reservoir . urinary continence with a kock or mainz pouch is achieved by a nipple valve of the invaginated ileum which is usually fixed with metal staples . however , metal staples can cause various complications as a foreign body . the seromuscular stripping method , a new technique to create a nipple valve , was applied to 17 patients with bladder cancer in the construction of a continent urinary reservoir by the ileocolonic pouch ( mainz pouch ) . metal staples were not used . the results were satisfactory except for 2 patients who became incontinent because of prolapse of the nipple in one and insufficient valve function due to ischemic change of the nipple valve in the other . histology of the nipple valve from an autopsy case showed a good double layer nipple valve that functioned well to preserve continence . 
sensitivity of urinary quantitative immunocytology with monoclonal antibody 486 p3/12 in 241 unselected patients with bladder carcinoma . we investigated the sensitivity of quantitative immunocytology with our monoclonal antibody 486 p3/12 in 241 unselected patients with transitional cell carcinoma . immunocytology yielded a sensitivity of 91.8 % , 89.4 % and 92.9 % for grade 1 , 2 and 3 tumors , respectively . standard cytology was positive in 59.2 % , 63.8 % and 84.7 % , respectively . deoxyribonucleic acid flow cytometry , used in the first 69 patients , was positive in only 27.7 % , 48.6 % and 57.1 % , respectively . 
oral or intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin immunoprophylaxis in bladder carcinoma . a total of 71 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma underwent transurethral resection of bladder tumor . all patients had stage pta or pt1 transitional cell carcinoma or carcinoma in situ without other concurrent malignancies . the patients were assigned to 3 treatment groups : control group -- transurethral resection discontinued within the study , oral bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) group -- transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus bcg ( moreau ) and intravesical bcg group -- transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus bcg . of 9 patients in the control group 8 ( 89 % ) experienced tumor recurrence during a mean followup of 20 months . of the 28 patients in the oral bcg group 11 ( 39.3 % ) had recurrence during a mean followup of 36 months . of the 34 patients in the intravesical group 6 ( 18 % ) had recurrence in a 24-month mean followup . the incidence of complications was higher in the intravesical ( 41.2 % ) than in the oral bcg group ( 28.5 % ) . these results show that intravesical bcg is a more effective immunotherapy ; however , oral bcg can be used in patients who do not accept intravesical bcg administration . 
ileocolic neobladder post-cystectomy : continence and potency . incontinence and impotence are 2 of the primary complications associated with total bladder reconstruction after cystectomy for carcinoma . these and other features are addressed in 25 patients who underwent total neobladder reconstruction following cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma . of these patients 20 had a urethral anastomosis . no patient had to wear a pad or device . enuresis was rare . when the radical cystoprostatectomy population was contrasted with a radical prostatectomy patient population , continence was achieved more rapidly in the neobladder group . potency was maintained in 15 of 21 ( 71 % ) evaluable patients . this ileocolic neobladder produces a large volume and low pressure , and provides excellent day and night continence . with preservation of the neurovascular bundle potency can be maintained in the majority of patients . 
impact of anatomical radical prostatectomy on urinary continence . urinary continence following an anatomical approach to radical prostatectomy was evaluated in 593 consecutive patients , 547 ( 92 % ) of whom achieved complete urinary control . stress incontinence was present in 46 patients ( 8 % ) , of whom 34 ( 6 % ) wore 1 or fewer pads per day and 2 ( 0.3 % ) required placement of an artificial sphincter . no patient was totally incontinent . age , weight of the prostate , prior transurethral resection of the prostate , pathological stage and preservation or wide excision of the neurovascular bundles had no significant influence on preservation of urinary control . these data suggest that anatomical factors rather than preservation of autonomic innervation may be responsible for the improved urinary control associated with an anatomical approach to radical prostatectomy . 
correlation of ultrasound guided and digitally directed transrectal biopsies of palpable prostatic abnormalities . the authors evaluated 51 patients with palpable prostatic abnormalities detected during digital rectal examination . these findings consisted of a nodule or an area of induration . each palpable abnormality was confined to 1 prostatic lobe and there was no suggestion of extracapsular extension of neoplasm or systemic metastatic disease . all patients underwent 7.0 mhz . sagittal ultrasound guided transrectal biopsy followed by digitally directed transrectal biopsy . biopsies were obtained only from the area of interest . the procedure was performed in the outpatient clinic without use of sedation or anesthesia . digitally directed biopsies were positive for adenocarcinoma in 9 lesions . ultrasound guided biopsies detected adenocarcinoma in 23 lesions , including all those detected by the blind digitally directed technique . this study demonstrates greater diagnostic accuracy using 7.0 mhz . ultrasound guided techniques and its routine use is warranted in the evaluation of palpable prostatic abnormalities . 
primary orchiectomy versus estrogen therapy in advanced prostatic cancer -- a randomized study : results after 7 to 10 years of followup . of 163 new consecutively diagnosed cases of advanced ( t3-4 m0 or t04m1 ) prostatic cancer 13 had contraindications for estrogen treatment , and the remainder were randomized to orchiectomy ( 76 ) or to estrogen treatment ( 74 ) , consisting of 150 micrograms ethinyl estradiol daily and 80 mg . polyestradiol monthly . during the followup period of 7 to 10 years disease progression was noted in 27 patients ( 36 % ) treated with estrogen and 39 ( 51 % ) orchiectomized patients . the free of progression survival rate was significantly better ( less than 0.05 ) among the estrogen treated patients but the over-all survival rates after orchiectomy and estrogen treatment were almost identical . a significantly higher frequency of cardiovascular side effects was noted in the estrogen group ( 23 cases ) compared to the orchiectomy group ( 4 cases ) . therefore , estrogen treatment in this form can not be recommended for the palliative treatment of prostate cancer . 
radical prostatectomy and adjuvant radioactive gold seed placement : results of treatment at 5 and 10 years for clinical stages a2 , b1 and b2 cancer of the prostate . between 1977 and 1988 , 131 patients with adenocarcinoma of the prostate underwent combined radical prostatectomy and intraoperative radioactive gold seed placement . of these 131 patients 80 were clinically assessed as having stage a2 ( 12 ) , b1 ( 43 ) or b2 ( 25 ) cancer and they are the subject of this review . the average dose of radioactivity administered to each patient was 96.6 mci , and mean followup was 65 months ( median 64 months ) . no patient in this series received any other form of adjuvant therapy until disease recurrence was demonstrated . local recurrences were observed in 2 patients ( 2.5 % ) in this series while distant recurrences were observed in 10 ( 12.5 % ) . cancer specific survival free of disease at 5 years was 100 % for clinical stage a2 , 91 % for b1 and 75 % for b2 cancers . the 10-year survival free of disease was 100 % for clinical stage a2 , 82 % for b1 and 68 % for b2 cancers . covariants of clinical stage and seminal vesicle involvement influenced survival free of disease in a statistically significant manner ( p less than 0.05 ) while pathological stage and degree of tumor differentiation did not . mild to severe complications were observed in 12 patients ( 15 % ) . intraoperative placement of radioactive gold seeds into unresected pelvic tissues surrounding the site of prostatectomy offers a theoretical advantage in treatment by delivering tumoricidal levels of irradiation to residual foci of cancer not appreciated at the time of surgery . our results suggest that increases in cancer specific survival free of disease over that previously reported for prostatectomy alone may be achieved through this combined treatment regimen . furthermore , it is our opinion that therapeutic gains can be achieved without the attendant increases in morbidity and treatment delay often associated with adjuvant external beam radiotherapy . 
an objective score to predict upper tract deterioration in myelodysplasia . bladder dysfunction in myelodysplasia may present a significant hazard to the upper tract and a threat to kidney function . urodynamic features of high leak pressure and detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia have been associated with an increased risk . we have developed an objective score to describe urodynamic findings in myelodysplasia . the score includes consideration of bladder compliance , detrusor contractility and reflux , in addition to leak pressure and sphincter behavior . in 171 myelodysplastic patients a significant correlation was demonstrated between the score and upper tract studies at the time of urodynamics and the score and the management decision . of 73 myelodysplasia patients with normal upper tracts at the first urodynamics study hydronephrosis later developed in 14 . the score was a potent predictor of outcome ( p = 0.0006 ) . 
cystourethrometric findings in patients with detubularized right colonic segment for bladder replacement . urodynamic evaluation was performed in 13 men 4 to 18 months after cystoprostatectomy and bladder replacement using a detubularized right colonic segment . all patients are continent by day and only 3 are incontinent during the night to a degree that necessitates use of a condom catheter . two patients awaken every 2 to 3 hours to void and the remainder have nocturia comparable to normal men of their age . the residual volume was 0 to 70 ml . the urethral closure pressure was normal , and in 3 patients studied preoperatively and postoperatively no significant change was observed other than shortening of the profile length . maximal flow rates were normal although the pattern was intermittent . in 2 patients no cystoplasty contractions were recorded and in all but 2 patients the amplitude of the contractions was less than 40 cm . water . simultaneous bladder and urethral pressure recordings during bladder filling demonstrated no change in urethral pressure in 10 patients . although creation of a reservoir with a low pressure and careful preservation of the infraprostatic urethra are important for continence in these patients , we believe that the absence of normal sacral route reflexes after cystoprostatectomy is an important contributing cause to nocturnal incontinence . 
the detection of reflux nephropathy in infants by 99mtechnetium dimercaptosuccinic acid studies . dimercaptosuccinic acid ( dmsa ) studies were performed in 113 infants less than 1 year old at risk of renal scarring . of these patients 86 presented with urinary tract infection and 27 were asymptomatic . a voiding cystourethrogram was performed in all cases and excretory urography ( ivp ) was done in 99 . more abnormalities were detected by dmsa study when compared to scars on ivp . when both studies were abnormal there was an excellent correlation on a site by site basis . fever or systemic disorder was not a reliable sign to determine whether there was upper tract involvement with infection . the incidence of dmsa abnormalities in infants increased with high grade vesicoureteral reflux and decreased with low grade reflux . there was no significant difference in the incidence of abnormal kidneys between the infected and noninfected groups , suggesting that renal scarring may occur with sterile reflux . 
preoperative endoscopic diagnosis of fibroepithelial polyp of the renal pelvis : a case report and review of the literature . benign fibroepithelial polyps of the renal pelvis are rare , with only 9 cases described previously in the literature . we report an additional case and suggest how nephrectomy may be avoided . 
nonspecific magnetic resonance appearance of renal oncocytomas : report of 3 cases and review of the literature . we report the magnetic resonance appearance of 3 cases of solitary renal oncocytomas . all lesions were of low to moderate signal intensity on t1-weighted images and became considerably brighter on the more heavily t2-weighted images . one lesion contained a large central area of cystic degeneration , while the other 2 were solid . a central stellate scar was present in the smaller of the 2 solid lesions . our observations lend further support to earlier reports on the nonspecific magnetic resonance features of oncocytomas . 
surgical management of renal cell carcinoma with extensive intracaval involvement using a venous bypass system suitable for rapid conversion to total cardiopulmonary bypass . renal cell carcinoma involves the vena cava in approximately 4 % of the patients . presently surgical extirpation is the only form of therapy that can result in cure . recently management of extensive vena caval involvement has involved the use of cardiopulmonary bypass with circulatory arrest and hypothermia . we describe a technique using a venous bypass pump system ( femoral vein to right atrium ) for resection of renal cell carcinoma with suprahepatic vena caval extension ( type ii ) , which avoids the risks and complications of cardiac arrest and hypothermia but allows for rapid conversion to total cardiopulmonary bypass should the intraoperative need arise . 
spermatic cord for onlay coverage of urethral defect . segmental urethral necrosis may accompany scrotoperineal gangrene , and primary closure of the urethral defect may unacceptably reduce urethral dimensions . this dilemma has been managed successfully in 5 patients by application of the intact spermatic cord to the urethral defect and approximation to its margins . a representative case is described . 
a continuous intravesical drug delivery system for the rat . we describe a self-contained system for the continuous infusion of drugs into the rat urinary bladder . a reversible model of hydronephrosis is used to prepare one renal unit for nephrostomy tube placement . an 0.8 mm . silastic nephrostomy tube is introduced into the hydronephrotic kidney via a 16 gauge angiocath . the nephrostomy tube is then connected to an alzet mini osmotic pump which is implanted in a subcutaneous location . the ability of this system to deliver a continuous dose of a test agent into the bladder was evaluated . pumps were filled with a 1 % solution of methylene blue in phosphate buffered saline . following pump implantation , urinary samples were collected on a daily basis and subsequently analyzed for their concentration of methylene blue . at the completion of the experiment , specimens of the kidney , ureter , and bladder were histologically examined . results demonstrated an average of 102 % recovery of the theoretically delivered dose over a 14-day period . renal histology demonstrated chronic inflammatory changes at the site of nephrostomy tube placement . no upper or lower tract urothelial changes were identified . this model provides a system for the continuous delivery of drugs in the rat urinary tract and results in no histological alteration to the lower urinary tract . 
patients with lower motor spinal cord lesion : a decrease of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide , calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance p , but not neuropeptide y and somatostatin-immunoreactive nerves in the detrusor muscle of the bladder . specimens of the detrusor muscle of the bladder from four patients with lower motor neurone lesion and three patients with carcinoma of the bladder used as " controls " , were studied immunohistochemically for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide , neuropeptide y , calcitonin-gene related peptide , substance p and somatostatin . the greatest density of nerves in the bladder from " control " patients contained neuropeptide y , followed in a decreasing order by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide , calcitonin gene-related peptide , substance p and somatostatin . neuropeptide y - and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive nerves were found throughout the smooth muscle and the base of the mucosa , while calcitonin gene-related peptide - , substance p - and somatostatin-immunoreactive nerves were found predominantly in nerve bundles with a few single fibres at the base of the mucosa . vasoactive intestinal polypeptide - , neuropeptide y - and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive nerves were also located around blood vessels . in patients with lower motor neurone lesion , there was a decrease in the density of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide - , calcitonin gene-related peptide - and substance p-immunoreactive nerves , but there was little change in neuropeptide y - or somatostatin-immunoreactive nerves . urinary retention , bladder areflexia and deficient sensation may be directly linked to neuropeptide neuropathy in patients with lower motor neurone lesion . 
determination of the coefficient of kinetic friction of urinary catheter materials . the coefficient of kinetic friction plays an important role in the biocompatibility of urinary catheters . a method for determination of the in vivo coefficient of kinetic friction is described that allows the comparison of the catheter-urethral interaction of the various materials used in the production of urinary catheters and the different types of lubricants . 
radio-contrast enhancement of urinary tract stones . most urologists treating stone disease with any method ( eswl , pcl , urs ) have encountered problems of poor stone visualization with fluoroscopy . this difficulty to localize urinary tract ( ut ) stones or fragments may result in incomplete stone extraction , prolonged surgery and increased risk of recurrence and post-operative complications . we have sought and found means to increase the radioopacity of mineral ut stones by a simple pre-operative perfusion technique . the capacity of radioopacification has first been demonstrated in in vitro incubations of fragments of human mineral stones with aqueous solutions of barium , of the lanthanides and of the two natural actinides . most of the incubations led to considerable radio-contrast enhancement and heavy metal incorporation , measured by x-ray fluorescence analysis . dogs with implanted human stone fragments were used as an in vivo model . the ut were perfused through a retrograde pyelic catheter with heavy metal salts solutions , the ensuing radioopacification of the implanted ut-stones was estimated by abdominal radiographies and the metal incorporation was measured on the retrieved stones . considerable radioopacity enhancement together with heavy metal incorporation was observed for the following elements : sr , ba and the lanthanides gd and yb . the pathological evaluation of the urothelial linings from animals treated with lanthanide salt showed no toxic effects . 
cytostatic effects of suramin on prostate cancer cells cultured from primary tumors . suramin is currently undergoing clinical trials as a chemotherapeutic agent for prostate cancer . the effects of suramin on cultured human epithelial cells derived from normal , benign hyperplastic , and malignant prostate tissues were examined . in serum-free medium , suramin inhibited the clonal growth of prostate cells at a half-maximal dose of approximately 10 micrograms/ml . growth inhibition by suramin was completely reversible even after 24 hours of exposure . in conjunction , suramin did not alter cellular phenotype with regard to expression of keratins and prostate-specific antigens . although suramin is reportedly an antagonist of growth factor-mediated mitogenesis , ten-fold excesses of growth factors did not appreciably suppress the cytostatic activity of suramin . in comparison to the activities of other possible chemotherapeutic agents , suramin would appear suboptimal because its inhibitory effects are reversible and it does not induce a terminally differentiated cellular phenotype . 
assessment of the critical level of androgen for growth response of transplantable human prostatic carcinoma ( pc-82 ) in nude mice . the androgen dependent prostatic carcinoma of human origin , pc-82 , was used as a model system to investigate the effect of various levels of androgen on the growth of prostatic tumor tissue . plasma testosterone levels in mice were correlated to tumor growth and intratumor concentrations of testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone . pc-82 tumor burden remained stable at plasma testosterone levels of 0.8 nmol/l . , whereas tumor growth occurred at higher levels and tumor regression was observed at lower plasma levels . this critical level of testosterone corresponded with intratumor testosterone and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone concentrations of six to 10 and three to four pmol/gm . tissue , respectively , which are significantly above the levels found in castrated non-supplemented animals ( 3.1 and 1.4 pmol/gm . respectively ) . this indicates that remaining concentrations of dihydrotestosterone , which amount to two to three times the castrate level , are not stimulatory for tumor growth in the model of the androgen dependent pc-82 tumor . 
chronic effects of focused electrohydraulic shock waves on renal function and hypertension . the chronic effects of focused electrohydraulic shock waves were studied in a minipig model . fifteen animals underwent a unilateral nephrectomy and compensatory renal hypertrophy was allowed to take place over a minimum of six months . baseline studies were then carried out consisting of 1 ) serum creatinine , blood urea nitrogen , and plasma renin levels 2 ) intra-arterial blood pressure measurement and 3 ) 3h-inulin clearance . ten of the animals then underwent 8 shockwave treatments ( 2500 shocks per treatment ) , alternately to the upper and lower pole of the kidney , at two weeks intervals . a total of 20,000 shock waves were administered to each minipig over the four month period . the five control pigs underwent sham procedures . the renal function and blood pressure evaluations were then repeated . no significant decrease in renal function was noted in the experimental animals when compared to the controls . in addition , renin mediated hypertension was not observed despite the excessive number of total shock waves delivered to the kidney . 
renal arterial duplex doppler ultrasound in dogs with urinary obstruction . recent clinical studies using duplex doppler sonography identified an alteration in renal arterial blood flow in obstructed hydronephrotic kidneys that reportedly can be used to distinguish obstructive from nonobstructive collecting system dilatation . we attempted to verify these clinical findings and establish the temporal relationship of the alteration in the doppler spectrum to the onset of urinary obstruction by evaluating surgically induced urinary obstruction in dogs . we performed laparotomies on 11 dogs , with the left ureter isolated and ligated in five dogs , and left intact in six dogs ( control group ) . duplex doppler examination of the left renal arteries performed nine times during the first postoperative month identified a statistically significant difference ( p less than .05 ) in the doppler resistive index calculation between the two groups on days 1 , 2 , 4 , and week 4 . a resistive index discriminatory threshold of 0.7 ( greater than 0.7 , obstructed ; less than 0.7 , nonobstructed ) produced a test sensitivity of 74 % and specificity of 77 % . we conclude from our study that renal arterial duplex doppler sonography can detect a change in renal perfusion as a result of urinary obstruction and that this change can be detected as early as 24 hours after obstruction . however , high false-positive and false-negative rates may limit the ability of this modality to reliably distinguish obstructive from nonobstructive collecting system dilatation . 
experimental intravesical therapy for superficial transitional cell carcinoma in a rat bladder tumor model . a rodent bladder cancer model that is induced by intravesical instillation of n-methyl-n-nitrosourea ( mnu ) was characterized . cohorts of four to five week old female fisher 344 rats received four biweekly 1.5 mg . doses of intravesical mnu and were sacrificed at various intervals . by week 13 all animals had flat atypia and/or papillary transitional cell tumors , and 67 % of the lesions were moderately ( grade ii ) or poorly differentiated ( grade iii ) . by week 20 , 83 % had gross muscle invasive tumors that eventually killed the host . a cohort of 40 mnu treated animals was subsequently treated commencing at week 17 after initiation of mnu with one of three intravesical six week regimens : 1 ) saline ; 2 ) bcg ( tice strain ) ; or 3 ) recombinant human tumor necrosis factor ( rtnf ) plus adriamycin . there was no difference in animal survival or tumor growth in any group of animals commencing therapy at week 17 . a second cohort of 107 animals commenced therapy at 13 weeks after initiation of mnu with one of five intravesical six week regimens : 1 ) intravesical bcg ( tice strain ) ; 2 ) adriamycin ; 3 ) recombinant human tumor necrosis factor ( rtnf ) ; 4 ) rtnf plus adriamycin ; or 5 ) bcg plus adriamycin . bcg , rtnf or adriamycin alone had no effect on tumor growth ; however , bcg plus adriamycin and rtnf plus adriamycin commencing at week 13 significantly inhibited tumor growth and progression . in conclusion , this autochthonous intravesical rodent transitional cell carcinoma model appears useful for the following reasons : 1 ) it closely resembles human transitional cell carcinoma histologically and biologically in that all animals develop neoplastic changes in-situ that progress to muscle invasion and kill the host ; 2 ) as with human bladder cancer these tumors do not respond to intravesical therapy if treated when tumor burden is large ; however , tumor growth is inhibited when treated early ; and 3 ) this model appears appropriate for screening and developing new intravesical treatments for superficial bladder cancer . 
the effect of radiation therapy and hyperthermia on a human prostatic carcinoma cell line grown in athymic nude mice . the effect of radiation and/or hyperthermia on a human prostatic carcinoma xenograft in athymic nude mice was investigated . a human prostate carcinoma subline ( 1-ln-pc-3-1a ) was inoculated subcutaneously in the thigh of male athymic nude mice . when tumors reached a size of approximately 200 mm .3 , they were treated with either radiation ( x ) or hyperthermia ( h ) alone , or in combination ( x + h ) . in the combined treatment , hyperthermia was delivered immediately after radiation exposure . comparison of the time required to reach twice the tumor volume observed at the time of treatment was used to define therapeutic impact on tumor growth . the combined treatment resulted in median tumor volume doubling time of 35.5 days , compared to 18 days and 25.5 days , respectively , for hyperthermia or radiation alone . analysis of tumor doubling time using a proportional hazards regression indicates that under the conditions of this experiment , the effect of radiation and hyperthermia for 1-ln-pc-3-1a tumors is additive . the impact of this treatment regimen in the management of prostatic cancer requires further investigation . 
image guided localized 31p magnetic resonance spectroscopy of acute urinary tract obstruction . using 31p magnetic resonance spectroscopy , localized spectroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging we studied effects of acute urinary obstruction in the in vivo pig kidney . accumulation of urine in the renal pelvis and collecting ducts resulted in the appearance of a new peak in the localized phosphorus spectra originating in the renal papilla , resonating at 3.43 to 4.56 ppm . this was inorganic phosphate with a ph of 5.60 to 6.79 ( urine ph ) . imaging did not show any dilatation of renal pelvis . there was a significant time dependent fall in renal [ atp ] during urinary obstruction followed by a rapid " overshoot " of [ atp ] and disappearance of the phosphate peak after release of obstruction . possible mechanisms for this phenomenon are discussed . we conclude that 31p magnetic resonance spectroscopy provides early evidence of urinary obstruction in vivo and could be of value in clinical diagnosis . 
the effects of interleukin-6 on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes derived from human renal cell cancer . tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes ( til ) are a heterogeneous population of t cells with potent antitumor activity against a wide variety of tumors . til from renal cell cancer ( rcc ) typically exhibit diminished growth and antitumor activity after four weeks in vitro . we have therefore investigated effects of varying doses of interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) ( 0 , 25 , 100 units/ml . ) on in vitro expansion , proliferation , cytotoxicity , and expression of cell surface phenotypes of long term renal til cultures from three rcc patients . among the various conditions tested , three of three til cultures displayed a mild increase in cell expansion when grown in il-2 with the addition of 100 units/ml . of il-6 . two of three til cultures grown in il-2 and 100 u/ml . of il-6 demonstrated enhanced proliferation as determined by 3h-thymidine uptake . til could not be isolated or maintained in vitro when grown in the presence of il-6 alone without il-2 . il-6 was also found to enhance the long term non-specific cytotoxicity against an allogeneic nonrenal tumor target . no consistent effect on autologous tumor-specific cytotoxicity was demonstrated . we conclude that il-6 , when used in combination with il-2 , may modestly enhance the long-term growth of rcc-derived til . 
preliminary experience with the pulsed dye laser for treatment of urolithiasis . we report our initial experience using the pulsed dye laser in 26 patients with urolithiasis . the patients ranged in age from 27 to 82 years ; 11 patients were female and 15 were male . of the 26 patients , 4 stones were in the kidney , 21 were in the ureter , and one was in the bladder . surgical time ranged from 32 to 130 minutes . all patients were treated under spinal or general anesthesia . the size of ureteral stones ranged from 0.2 to 1.5 cm , and the renal stones 3.0 to 4.0 cm . chemical analysis of the stones was not available on all patients , but when available , chemical analysis revealed the stones to be calcium monohydrate , calcium dihydrate , or struvite . the use of the candela miniscope in 11 patients permitted access without ureteral dilation . in 19 patients , ureteral stents were placed . one patient suffered a ureteral perforation . success was defined as adequate disintegration of the stone for passage of the fragments without the necessity of a secondary procedure . using this criterion , 22 of 26 patients were successfully treated for an overall success rate of 85 % . 
bladder perforation resulting from the use of the neodymium : yag laser . complications resulting from the use of the neodymium : yag ( nd : yag ) laser to treat superficial bladder cancer are uncommon and are usually associated with abnormally high laser power outputs . we report a case of bladder perforation in a human attributed to the nd : yag laser used at a low power setting and comment on those factors that contributed to this complication . 
urinary tract infections . urinary tract infections are a common infection for the primary care physician to see in the office . epidemiology , pathogenesis , diagnosis , management , and prophylaxis are discussed . information regarding special patient populations , such as pregnant women and children , is also provided . 
sexually transmitted diseases . over the past two decades the incidence of stds has dramatically increased in the united states . most patients with these infections present first to primary care physicians . all physicians must be familiar with the common std syndromes and the indications for specific diagnostic tests in order to provide a comprehensive treatment plan . primary prevention strategies based on patient education and secondary prevention through judicious use of screening tests in appropriate settings can also limit the morbidity associated with stds . 
reflux nephropathy and primary vesicoureteric reflux in adults we have studied the clinical features and course of adults with reflex nephropathy and/or primary vesicoureteric reflux , paying particular attention to the differences between males and females , and the presenting features that influence prognosis . in our series of 293 patients , females outnumbered males in the ratio 5:1 and most presented with urinary infection , whereas males most commonly presented with features of renal damage such as proteinuria , hypertension or renal failure . males more commonly had bilateral scarring and persistent reflux . one hundred and forty-seven patients were followed for two years or more ( range 2-19 years ) ; deterioration in renal function occurred in 55 ( 37 per cent ) . risk factors for a rise in plasma creatinine were , in descending order , the presence of proteinuria , an elevated plasma creatinine concentration , bilateral scarring , male sex and the presence of hypertension . stepwise multiple regression analysis showed that the independent risk factors were proteinuria , elevated plasma creatinine concentration and hypertension ; gender and the presence of persistent reflux had no independent influence on the course of renal failure . 
diagnosis of heterozygous states for adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency based on detection of in vivo somatic mutants in blood t cells : application to screening of heterozygotes . an accurate diagnosis of heterozygotes for autosomal recessive disorders with unknown mutations can be difficult . using a unique phenomenon occurring in vivo , we designed a method for the diagnosis of heterozygotes for adenine phosphoribosyltransferase ( aprt ) deficiency which makes way for a qualitative distinction between normal and heterozygous subjects . we cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells with 2,6-diaminopurine , an aprt-dependent cytotoxin , to search for in vivo mutational cells . fifteen putative heterozygotes examined were found to possess such mutant cells at rather high frequencies ; thus , a false negative diagnosis is unlikely . the analysis of genomic dna in 82 resistant clones from two of the heterozygotes clarified that 64 ( 78 % ) had lost the germinally intact alleles . thirteen members of aprt-deficient families were examined ; eight proved to be heterozygotes . among 425 individuals from two separate residential areas of japan , two heterozygotes were found . the authenticity of the heterozygosity was validated by two separate methods for the two heterozygotes ; hence , a false positive diagnosis can be ruled out . our data showed a calculated heterozygote frequency of 0.47 % ( 95 % confidence limits ; 0.05 % -1.7 % ) , a value compatible with that ( 1.2 % ) calculated from data concerning the incidence of 2,8-dihydroxyadenine urolithiasis . this novel genetic approach for identifying heterozygotes is now being tested to search for other enzyme deficiencies in humans . 
pharmacokinetics and bioavailability of intravenous-to-oral enoxacin in elderly patients with complicated urinary tract infections . the pharmacokinetics of oral fluoroquinolone antibiotics in normal volunteers have been studied extensively ; however , limited patient data exist . enoxacin steady-state pharmacokinetics and bioavailability were determined following repeated 400-mg intravenous ( i.v. ) and oral dosing by using compartmental and noncompartmental methods in 10 elderly ( mean age , 73.8 years ) men with complicated urinary tract infections . average peak enoxacin concentrations following i.v. and oral dosing were 8.15 and 5.45 mg/liter , respectively . mean values for major pharmacokinetic parameters ( noncompartmental ) were similar following i.v. and oral administration , respectively : area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 12 h , 47.6 and 41.0 mg.h / liter ; volume of distribution or volume of distribution/bioavailability , 1.61 and 1.99 liters/kg ; total body clearance or total body clearance/bioavailability , 2.58 and 3.01 ml/min per kg ; and half-life , 8.2 and 9.1 h. parameters from analysis of enoxacin plasma concentration data by using a two-compartment pharmacokinetic model also revealed marked similarities between the two administration routes . enoxacin was highly bioavailable ( mean , 86.97 % ) following oral administration . 
somatostatin and analogues in the treatment of cancer . a review somatostatin is a naturally occurring cyclic tetradecapeptide that inhibits release of growth hormone and all gastrointestinal hormones . the beneficial effect of somatostatin in the treatment of certain hypersecretory disorders of hormone excess in well recognized ; however its clinical usefulness has been limited in the past by its extremely short plasma half-life . the development of long-acting somatostatin analogues has provided clinically useful agents for treatment of hormone-producing tumors . in addition to well-known inhibiting effects on hormone release and actions , recent studies using experimental tumor models have demonstrated an antiproliferative effect of somatostatin and its analogues on growth of a variety of neoplasms . the exact role of somatostatin analogues in cancer therapy has yet to be established ; however studies suggest that these agents could provide a useful and relatively nontoxic adjuvant therapy in the treatment of certain tumors . in this review , the oncologic application of somatostatin and possible mechanism of action are examined and current clinical and experimental studies are summarized . 
postcardiotomy mechanical circulatory support in the elderly . the role of mechanical circulatory support after cardiac operations in elderly patients is not clearly established . between november 1985 and july 1989 , 18 patients 65 years of age or older ( mean age , 71 years ; range , 65 to 82 years ) were treated after cardiotomy with a centrifugal vortex or pneumatic mechanical ventricular assist device . this group comprised 1.9 % of the 926 patients 65 years of age or older undergoing cardiac surgical procedures and 69 % of the 26 patients requiring postcardiotomy support during this interval . before institution of mechanical support , all patients were receiving maximal inotropic support and 16 patients had intraaortic balloon pumps inserted . univentricular support was used in 9 patients ( 6 left , 3 right ) and biventricular support in 9 patients . the mean duration of support was 45 hours ( range , 8 to 118 hours ) . twelve patients ( 67 % ) were successfully weaned , 8 ( 44 % ) were discharged from the hospital , and 6 ( 33 % ) remain alive 11 to 31 months postoperatively . four of the 6 survivors are in new york heart association class i , 1 is in class ii , and 1 is in class iv . the combined registry for ventricular assist device support has recently reported an overall survival rate of 12 % in patients 65 to 70 years of age and 6 % in those older than 70 years . our results are comparable with those reported for younger patients and justify the use of postcardiotomy ventricular assist device support in the elderly . 
candida pyelonephritis complicating traumatic c5 quadriplegia : diagnosis and management . we present the first reported case of candida pyelonephritis in a spinal cord injured patient . in addition to multiple courses of empiric antibiotics , the neurogenic bladder and alteration in cell-mediated immunity found in spinal cord injured patients may have increased this patient 's susceptibility to fungal disease . a 50-year-old patient with c5 motor functional quadriplegia developed candid albicans pyelonephritis while undergoing rehabilitation . the patient had several surgical procedures and multiple courses of antibiotic therapy during acute hospitalization . he continued to have a hectic fever curve , leukocytosis with increased band forms , lethargy , and progressive uremia during rehabilitation . successful investigation of the patient 's condition included assessment of serologic tests for candida precipitin antigen ; multiple blood and urine cultures ; exclusion of other causes of hectic fever ; abdominal computerized tomogram , which revealed a left kidney hypodensity with irregular margins ; and a retrograde pyelogram , which demonstrated multiple renal pelvic-filling defects . cystoscopically placed ureteral stents , which relieved the genitourinary obstruction , drained gross pus from which candida albicans was cultured ; the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed clinical improvement . pathogenesis , presentation , diagnosis , and treatment of candida pyelonephritis are reviewed . 
distal urethral electrical conductance ( duec ) -- a preliminary assessment of its role as a quick screening test for incontinent women . measurement of distal urethral electrical conductance ( duec ) has been used to detect the movement of urine along the distal urethra . duec was used as a screening test in 100 women attending the urodynamic clinic with incontinence and in the 33 women who voided over 250 ml , the findings correlated well with subsequent urodynamic diagnosis of urethral sphincter incompetence and detrusor instability . 
comparison between perindopril and nifedipine in hypertensive and normotensive diabetic patients with microalbuminuria . melbourne diabetic nephropathy study group objective -- to compare the efficacy of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition with calcium antagonism in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria . design -- randomised study of diabetic patients with microalbuminuria treated with perindopril or nifedipine for 12 months and monitored for one or three months after stopping treatment depending on whether they were hypertensive or normotensive . patients were randomised separately according to whether they were hypertensive or normotensive . setting -- diabetic clinics in three university teaching hospitals . patients -- 50 diabetic patients with persistent microalbuminuria . in all , 43 completed the study : 30 were normotensive and 13 hypertensive ; 19 had type i diabetes and 24 had type ii diabetes . interventions -- for 12 months 20 patients were given perindopril 2-8 mg daily and 23 were given nifedipine 20-80 mg daily . main outcome measures -- albumin excretion rate , blood pressure , and glomerular filtration rate . results -- both perindopril and nifedipine significantly reduced mean blood pressure . during treatment there was no significant difference between those treated with perindopril and those treated with nifedipine with respect to albuminuria or mean blood pressure . stopping treatment with both drugs was associated with a sustained increase in albuminuria and mean blood pressure . there was a significant correlation between mean blood pressure and albuminuria and also between the reduction in mean blood pressure and the decrease in albuminuria during treatment with both drugs . in hypertensive patients both drugs caused significant decreases in mean blood pressure and albuminuria . in normotensive patients there was no significant reduction in albuminuria with either regimen . conclusions -- in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria blood pressure seems to be an important determinant of urinary albumin excretion . perindopril and nifedipine have similar effects on urinary albumin excretion , both preventing increases in albuminuria in normotensive patients and decreasing albuminuria in hypertensive patients . 
magnetic resonance angiography of abdominal vessels : early experience using the three-dimensional phase-contrast technique . based on three-dimensional acquisition of three sequences sensitive to one flow-direction , abdominal magnetic resonance phase-contrast angiography ( mra ) was performed in 13 volunteers and 20 patients . the subjects received no antiperistaltic medication and were allowed to breath normally during the three acquisition periods of 11 minutes . the frequency of demonstration of the normal aorta , superior mesenteric and right and left renal arteries was 100 % / 100 % / 91 % / 100 % , and of the inferior vena cava , splenic , superior mesenteric and portal veins was 92 % / 67 % / 92 % / 100 % , respectively , whereas other abdominal vessels were seen less constantly . in renal artery stenosis or occlusion , mra detected eight out of nine pathological arteries , missed only a minimal stenosis and was never false positive . in all 10 cases of portal hypertension , mra demonstrated the venous collaterals detected by conventional angiography and in six cases showed more collaterals , particularly paravertebral vessels . a budd-chiari syndrome was investigated as well . if the accuracy of mra can be proved in larger studies , it may become an important diagnostic tool in evaluating abdominal vascular pathology , such as renal artery stenosis or portal hypertension . 
hemodialysis for acute renal failure in patients with hematologic malignancies . objective : to assess the prognosis of patients with hematologic malignancies in acute renal failure who require hemodialysis . design : retrospective study . setting : icu . patients : forty-three consecutive patients . methods : prognostic analysis using both univariate and multivariate ( stepwise regression ) methods . results : fifteen ( 35 % ) patients recovered from acute renal failure and 12 ( 28 % ) were discharged from the icu . the prognosis of patients with acute renal failure linked to sepsis is poorer than the prognosis of the patients with acute renal failure from other etiologies . only one patient survived in the former group ( n = 26 ) and 11 in the latter group ( n = 17 ) ; p less than .0001 in multivariate analysis . when accompanied by associated respiratory failure , mortality rate was higher ( 93 % vs. 33 % ; p less than .0001 ) . the simplified acute physiology score ( saps ) calculated within the first 24 hr of admission was significantly ( p less than .001 ) related to mortality when the saps was greater than or equal to 13 . the presence of neutropenia and the type of hematologic malignancy were not related to a worse prognosis . tolerance to hemodialysis appeared good , and complications were rare . 
regulation of pulsatile luteinizing hormone secretion in experimental uremia . previous studies have shown that male rats with experimental uremia manifest profound suppression of circulating lh and testosterone levels , yet , paradoxically , after castration gonadotropin levels are elevated greatly above those of nonuremic castrate control rats . to investigate further this phenomenon , we characterized pulsatile lh secretion in experimental uremia . mature orchidectomized male wistar rats with subtotal nephrectomy demonstrated a 43 % reduction of lh pulse frequency , but a 157 % increase in pulse amplitude and a 335 % increase in mean lh levels compared with sham-operated controls . all pulse parameters were highly correlated with plasma creatinine ( r = 0.53-0 .75 ) . to determine the mechanism of the increased pulse amplitude , we tested responsiveness of the postcastration uremic pituitary to exogenous gnrh ( 0.01-10 micrograms/kg ) in a latin square design . plasma lh response was linearly related to the logarithm of the gnrh dose in uremic and control rats , but was markedly increased in uremic rats . we conclude that the uremia causes decreased lh pulse frequency independent of testicular feedback . pituitary hypersensitivity to gnrh magnifies lh pulse amplitude and thereby is the major factor causing the paradoxical lh hyperelevation after castration . 
small artery resistance increases during the development of renal hypertension . vascular pressures were measured in the principal ( a1 ) arteriole and in upstream small arteries of the rat cremaster muscle to investigate vascular resistance changes associated with one-kidney , one clip goldblatt hypertension . pressure measurements were made at a proximal and distal site of each vessel using a servonull micropipette system . vessel diameters were measured using video microscopy . a1 arteriole and external spermatic artery diameters were both decreased after 2 and 4 weeks of hypertension . mean arterial pressure was elevated after 2 weeks of hypertension ( 106 + / - 4 mm hg versus 140 + / - 5 mm hg ) . likewise , vascular pressures were elevated at every site : pudicepigastric artery ( 36 % ) , external spermatic artery ( 47 % ) , and a1 arteriole ( 38 % ) . the pressure drop along the external spermatic artery was increased ( 87 % ) after 2 weeks of hypertension . mean arterial pressure was further elevated from 2-4 weeks of hypertension ( 105 + / - 4 mm hg versus 162 + / - 7 mm hg ) but only the proximal pudic-epigastric artery pressure was further elevated during this time from 2 to 4 weeks ( 131 + / - 5 mm hg versus 147 + / - 7 mm hg ) of hypertension development . this was associated with an increased pressure drop ( 87 % ) along the artery compared with the situation at 2 weeks . these data indicate that small arteries upstream from the microcirculation contribute significantly to the increase in vascular resistance during hypertension . in addition , these data indicate that the increases in small artery resistance do not develop uniformly throughout all vessel branches . 
renal nerves modulate renin gene expression in the developing rat kidney with ureteral obstruction . chronic unilateral ureteral obstruction ( uuo ) in newborn rats activates renin gene expression in the obstructed kidney , and increases renin distribution along afferent glomerular arterioles in both kidneys . to investigate the role of the renal nerves in this response , 2-d-old sprague-dawley rats were subjected to uuo or sham operation . chemical sympathectomy was performed by injection of guanethidine , whereas , control groups received saline vehicle . at 4-5 wk , renal renin distribution was determined by immunocytochemistry , and renin mrna levels were determined by northern blot hybridization . compared to the saline-treated rats with uuo , renin remained localized to the juxtaglomerular region in both kidneys of rats with uuo receiving guanethidine ( p less than 0.05 ) . moreover , renin mrna levels were eightfold lower in obstructed kidneys of rats receiving guanethidine than in those receiving saline . additional groups of rats with uuo were subjected to unilateral mechanical renal denervation : renin gene expression in the obstructed kidney was suppressed by ipsilateral but not by contralateral renal denervation . these findings indicate that either chemical or mechanical denervation suppressed the increase in renin gene expression of the neonatal kidney with ipsilateral uuo . we conclude that the renal sympathetic nerves modulate renin gene expression in the developing kidney with chronic uuo . 
expression of smooth muscle cell phenotype by rat mesangial cells in immune complex nephritis . alpha-smooth muscle actin is a marker of mesangial cell proliferation . mesangial cell proliferation is common in glomerulonephritis but it is unclear if proliferation is associated with any in vivo alteration in phenotype . we investigated whether mesangial of mesangial proliferative nephritis induced with antibody to the thy-1 antigen present on mesangial cells . at day 3 glomeruli displayed de novo immunostaining for alpha-smooth muscle actin in a mesangial pattern , correlating with the onset of proliferation , and persisting until day 14 . an increase in desmin and vimentin in mesangial regions was also noted . immunoelectron microscopy confirmed that the actin-positive cells were mesangial cells , and double immunolabeling demonstrated that the smooth muscle actin-positive cells were actively proliferating . northern analysis of isolated glomerular rna confirmed an increase in alpha and beta/gamma actin mrna at days 3 and 5 . complement depletion or platelet depletion prevented or reduced proliferation , respectively ; these maneuvers also prevented smooth muscle actin and actin gene expression . studies of five other experimental models of nephritis confirmed that smooth muscle actin expression is a marker for mesangial cell injury . thus , mesangial cell proliferation in glomerulonephritis in the rat is associated with a distinct phenotypic change in which mesangial cell assume smooth muscle cell characteristics . 
percutaneous needle biopsy preceding preoperative chemotherapy in the management of massive renal tumors in children . while the national wilms ' tumor study ( nwts ) group in the united states puts an emphasis on accurate staging and histology before any therapy is given for wilms ' tumor , the international society of pediatric oncology ( siop ) in europe focuses on preoperative therapy and safer surgery . our current approach combines the benefits of both policies in the management of massive renal tumors in children . in seven consecutive patients we first obtained a percutaneous posterior needle biopsy to obtain adequate tissue for histology , and proceeded with preoperative chemotherapy with vincristine and dactinomycin until tumor shrinkage was sufficient . tumor removals were feasible and uneventful . at the time of operation , two tumors were found to be totally or almost totally necrotic . in the others , which still included viable tumor , the histology corresponded well to the needle biopsy findings . one case with unfavorable histology and one with rhabdoid sarcoma would have been missed and given suboptimal therapy without the primary needle biopsy . as possible biopsy-related complications , subcapsular intratumoral bleeding was recognized in two patients . we conclude that percutaneous posterior needle biopsy is safe and yields definite , detailed histology in massive renal tumors in children . preoperative chemotherapy facilitates surgery in these patients . 
cancer registry problems in classifying invasive bladder cancer . a slide review of diagnostic pathologic tissue obtained from 364 bladder cancer cases , identified through the iowa surveillance , epidemiology , and end results ( seer ) program in 1983 , classified 97 ( 26.6 % ) of these cases as invasive bladder cancers . these findings contrasted sharply with the iowa seer program classification that coded 289 ( 79.4 % ) of these cases as invasive bladder cancers . these results were validated further by the hazard ratio of 4.54 ( 95 % confidence interval , 2.57 to 8.03 ) among invasive relative to noninvasive bladder cancer cases when the slide review findings were used . in contrast , the hazard ratio was only 1.70 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.76 to 3.79 ) when the iowa seer program findings were used . the traditional method used by the national cancer institute 's seer program to deal with this problem is described and its implications are discussed . 
polyglucosan body disease . adult polyglucosan disease has been described in 15 cases . all had signs of peripheral neuropathy , upper motor neuron signs , and 12 of the 15 had sphincter problems . dementia was prominent in 8 of 15 cases . we reported 2 cases that contained these clinical features . electrophysiological studies showed axonal neuropathy . somatosensory evoked potentials on the second patient were abnormal . sural nerve biopsy showed clusters of polyglucosan bodies . although the presence of polyglucosan bodies in biopsy is nonspecific , the number as well as the clinical features are necessary to make the diagnosis . branching enzyme activity in muscle extracts of the muscles were normal . hence , a specific enzyme abnormality is not yet known . 
molecular characterization of a major nephritogenic domain in the autoantigen of anti-tubular basement membrane disease . anti-tubular basement membrane ( alpha tbm ) disease is a form of primary interstitial nephritis mediated by autoimmune t cells and alpha tbm antibodies . in mice and humans the nephritogenic immune response is directed to a glycoprotein ( 3m-1 ) found along the proximal tubule of the kidney . we have isolated cdnas from an expression library that encodes for the common framework domain of the 3m-1 antigen . this common domain was once related evolutionarily to a family of intermediate filament-associated proteins . northern hybridization revealed that all isoforms of 3m-1 range between 1700 and 1900 base pairs and in situ hybridization studies indicate that transcripts are found in tubular epithelium . candidate peptide fragments were deduced and synthesized from the sequence encoding this common framework domain , and one of the peptide residues was able to bind a monoclonal 3m-1-reactive alpha tbm antibody , stimulate the growth of 3m-1-reactive helper t cells , and induce nephritogenic effector t cells capable of producing interstitial nephritis . our results indicate that a unique , immunodominant region of the 3m-1 antigen is an informative participant in the emergence of autoimmune injury to certain basement membranes . 
a complex ileovaginal fistula with associated obstructive uropathy in a patient with crohn 's disease : technical considerations and review of the literature . a high index of suspicion of an ileogenital fistula should be aroused by a patient with crohn 's disease , weight loss , malnutrition , and a persistent vaginal discharge . preoperative gastrointestinal and genitourinary evaluation should be used in an attempt to localize the fistulous origin as well as concomitant fistulae . the principles of surgical therapy include preoperative ureteral catheters , resection of the diseased bowel and fistulous segment of bowel , and interposition of healthy tissue ( ie , omentum ) between the bowel anastomosis and the vaginal cuff . 
spontaneous rupture of a normal bladder . we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of a normal urinary bladder . patients with this rare condition characteristically have a recent history of heavy alcohol intake , sudden onset of abdominal pain coincidental with bloody urine , generalized peritonitis , and abnormal renal chemistry . a high index of suspicion will lead to early diagnosis and treatment , minimizing the mortality attributed to this condition . 
radical prostatectomy after definitive radiation therapy for prostate cancer . radical prostatectomy was performed in 14 patients following local failure of radiation therapy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate . ten patients were treated with external beam and 4 with interstitial radiation . the interval from beginning radiation therapy to biopsy-proved residual or recurrent disease was twenty-four to one hundred fourteen months ( mean 61 months ) . ten patients had significant anterior and lateral fibrosis . five patients had loss of tissue planes between the prostate and rectum , however , no rectal injuries occurred . estimated blood loss was 300-8 ,000 cc ( median 1,000 cc ) . operative time was one hundred ten to three hundred seventy-five minutes ( median 185 minutes ) . significant late complications are impotence ( 100 % ) and incontinence ( 55 % ) . tumor volume was 1.1-27 .2 cc ( mean 11.1 cc ) . seven patients had seminal vesicle involvement , 9 had level iii capsule penetration , and 6 had positive surgical margins . follow-up ranges from one to fifty-two months ( median 18 months ) . currently , 6 patients are clinically without disease and have serum prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) of 0.0 ng/ml . four patients have no clinical evidence of disease but do have detectable serum psa , and 4 patients have evidence of metastatic bone disease on bone scan with elevated serum psa levels . radical prostatectomy following radiation therapy has no greater immediate morbidity or mortality compared with radical prostatectomy without prior irradiation and takes only slightly longer to perform . however , there is a marked increased risk of impotence and incontinence . more patients followed for a longer time are needed to assess the benefit of radical prostatectomy on survival of patients who fail radiation therapy . 
early detection program for prostate cancer : results and identification of high-risk patient population . three hundred sixty-two men underwent transrectal ultrasound of the prostate ( trus ) , digital rectal examination ( dre ) , and serum prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) determination as part of an early detection program for prostate cancer . thirty-seven ( 10 % ) cancers were detected . dre had the highest sensitivity and specificity , 89 percent and 84 percent , respectively . trus and psa had comparable sensitivities ( 84 % and 81 % ) and specificities ( 82 % and 82 % ) . the positive predictive values of dre , trus , and psa determination were 39 percent , 35 percent , and 33 percent , respectively . we found a cancer detection rate of 16 percent among patients with symptoms of bladder outlet obstruction and 5 percent in patients without these symptoms . the detection rate was 36 percent for physician-referred patients and 3 percent for self-referred patients . this suggests to us that at the present time the best utilization of medical resources to increase prostate cancer detection is to educate men to have annual medical evaluations by primary-care physicians who are encouraged to incorporate risk assessment and screening dre as part of their routine practice . any man with either abnormal findings on examination or increased risk should be referred to a urologist for further evaluation . 
gleason 's histologic grading as clinical prognostic marker in patients with advanced prostatic carcinoma . we have found that the gleason 's histologic grading system is a good clinical marker to predict long-term response and prognosis in symptomatic stage d-2 adenocarcinoma of the prostate . in this retrospective study , 56 cases were reviewed and correlated with bone scan , acid phosphatase , and symptomatology following bilateral orchiectomy . 
simultaneous presentation of adenocarcinoma of prostate and transitional cell carcinoma of bladder . simultaneous presentation of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and adenocarcinoma of the prostate is not uncommon . twenty-two patients were diagnosed as having simultaneous or concurrent presentation of prostate and bladder carcinomas between january 1970 and july 1986 . the overall five-year survival was 40 percent , with patients presenting with prostate cancer doing better ( 50 % ) than those with bladder cancer ( 32 % ) . retrospective review of these cases suggests that primary therapy should be directed to the most advanced cancer . incidental prostate cancer may be " cured " with a cystoprostatectomy and , when indicated , radiation therapy added postoperatively for the bladder cancer . eleven patients presented with stage a prostate cancer : 10 of the 11 were treated for their bladder cancer . treatment was usually radical cystoprostatectomy with or without postoperative radiation . none died of prostate cancer . patients presenting with advanced stage prostate cancer have had recurrence or have died of the cancer . 
interstitial cystitis : successful management by increasing urinary voiding intervals . a variant of the interstitial cystitis ( ic ) syndrome , minimal or no pain or significant pain that has been lessened by another therapy , can be clinically improved by retraining of the individual 's voiding pattern . patients with greater pain but capable of completing this protocol also may be helped . while this group of patients fills the diagnostic criteria of ic and has many of the classic changes , many differ in that they have minimal or no pain , while simultaneously they have a dysfunctional bladder as expected from long-term low-volume voiding . all patients were placed on a protocol which focused on progressively increasing intervals between voids . fifteen to thirty minutes initially were added to their present voiding time . the same increase was added to the voiding pattern every three or four weeks until an interval of three to four hours between voids was achieved . twenty-one patients fit the criteria to be entered into this study . overall 71 percent ( 15/21 ) had successful management of their symptoms and reported a 50 percent decrease in their symptoms of urinary urgency , frequency , and nocturia . nineteen percent ( 4/21 ) reported 25 percent decrease in symptoms and 10 percent had no change . presence of significant pain adversely affects outcome , 3/7 ( with pain ) improvements versus 12/14 ( without pain ) . for all patients there was a significant increase in bladder capacity ( 92 ml average before study and 179 ml after ) and average daily voids ( 13.2 / day prestudy and 7.4 post-therapy ) . these differences in voided profiles were statistically significant ( p value less than 0.01 ) . 
symptom analysis of patients undergoing modified pereyra bladder neck suspension for stress urinary incontinence . pre - and postoperative findings . the results of a physician-directed follow-up of 145 women undergoing the modified pereyra bladder neck suspension from march 1980 to february 1986 are presented . median follow-up was 3.5 years ( 2.0-7 .7 ) ; 70 percent of patients had follow-up between three and four years postoperatively . all patients had preoperative demonstration of stress incontinence as well as urodynamic evaluation . fifty-one percent of patients reported no stress incontinence and 76 percent reported that their sense of urinary control was better , or much better at the time of follow-up . improvement was seen in all grades of stress incontinence . age , weight , parity , and history of prior anti-incontinence surgery had no significant impact on success rates . although preoperative urgency symptoms were more common among failure ( 28 % vs 15 % ) , this association was not statistically significant . however , persistent or de novo urgency symptoms postoperatively were highly associated with postoperative incontinence ( p less than 0.005 ) . the onset of recurrent incontinence was experienced more than two years postoperatively in 23 percent of the incontinent group . 
incontinence management scale for elderly inpatient men . for many elderly inpatients , urinary incontinence can not be successfully treated and the management objective is identifying a suitable method for containment of urine loss . in elderly inpatient men , an external catheter is utilized in many cases for incontinence management . the role of the severity of incontinence and the use of an external catheter was investigated in 66 elderly inpatient men . quantitative incontinence measurements showed incontinent patients having an external catheter had approximately 6.3 ( sd = 2.5 ) episodes per day compared with 3.2 ( sd = 2.0 ) episodes per day in the noncatheter incontinent patients . the clinical management method used in these patients was associated with the measured severity of incontinence . 
hypogonadal impotence treated by transdermal testosterone . the transdermal therapeutic system for testosterone ( tts-t ) ( alza corp. ) , applied to the scrotal skin for twenty-two hours daily , was tested for twelve weeks on 4 men with hypogonadal impotence ; 2 of these men wore tts-t for as long as twenty-six months . the 40 cm2 system delivered a daily dose of 2.8 + / - 0.16 ( s.e. ) mg ( nominal dose 2.4 mg ) and the 60 cm2 system delivered a dose of 3.99 + / - 0.24 mg ( nominal dose 3.6 mg ) . both systems promptly increased serum testosterone and dihydrotestosterone ( dht ) to physiologic levels , restoring normal erectile activity with an increased frequency of ejaculation and a positive effect on both mood and energy . there were no changes in serum sex binding globulin and estradiol , prostate or breast size , hematologic or liver function measures , or urinary flow and frequency . there were no significant changes in serum cholesterol or low-density lipoproteins , but high-density lipoproteins tended to decline slightly . there were no dermatologic problems associated with the system . the tenfold increase in dht over baseline levels was attributed to 5-alpha reduction of testosterone in the scrotal skin . the tts-t is convenient , reliable , and mimics normal physiologic testosterone secretion and levels more closely than conventional methods of testosterone replacement . 
bilateral emphysematous pyelonephritis . emphysematous pyelonephritis is an uncommon and serious infection associated with gas-forming coliform bacteria . bilateral involvement is rare with only 10 reported cases in the english literature . prompt and aggressive management is required to salvage these patients . preservation of renal function using broad-spectrum antibiotics and surgical drainage provide the greatest benefit to these patients . three new cases are presented with a brief review of the results of management in the reported cases . 
results of surgical treatment of kidney cancer with solitary metastasis to contralateral adrenal . a large series of patients were reviewed in two major teaching institutions , and patients with a carcinoma of the kidney with a solitary metastatic deposit in the contralateral adrenal were identified . their survival was analyzed and compared with the survival of those patients having a solitary metastatic deposit in other organs . 
endoscopic treatment of vesicoureteral reflux in children with neurogenic bladders . endoscopic subureteral injection of teflon was performed in 12 children ( 20 ureters ) with neurogenic bladders and vesicoureteral reflux ( grades iii-iv ) . follow-up evaluation by ultrasonography and voiding cystourethrogram at three-month intervals up to two years revealed successful correction of the reflux in 70 percent of the ureters . 
pediatric testicular tumors : the johns hopkins experience . testicular neoplasms constitute 1 percent of all childhood malignancies and rank eighth in childhood cancer mortality . from 1970 to 1988 , 25 testicular tumors in children eighteen years and under were seen . the majority of the patients were white ( 88 % ) . pathologic analysis of the tumors revealed that 68 percent were germinal and 32 percent were nongerminal . staging was undertaken in all patients with serum markers , chest x-ray film , and computerized tomography scans or lymphangiography . all patients underwent radical orchiectomy , and further therapy was given dependent on tumor type and stage . the survival among this cohort was excellent , with only 3 patients succumbing to their disease . detailed results of treatment , and approaches to avoid excess treatment morbidity are reviewed . 
renal cell metastases versus liver hemangioma . we present the case of a man with presumed metastatic renal cell carcinoma based on radiologic examination and weight loss , who refused treatment of any kind for one year . a surgical exploration to control hematuria revealed a stage i tumor . 
squamous cell carcinoma of prostate . a primary squamous cell carcinoma occurring in the prostate of a sixty-nine-year-old man is described . a radical excision that included cystoprostatectomy , total penectomy , scrotectomy , pubic symphysiectomy , and abdominoperineal resection of rectum was done . the patient died of systemic metastases six months after diagnosis . review of the literature suggests that such a cancer of the prostate is rare , highly aggressive , and responds poorly to any mode of therapy . histogenesis of this tumor remains controversial ; however , it probably does not originate from the prostatic acinar cells . 
causes of post-prostatectomy retention . forty-eight patients in urinary retention following prostatectomy underwent urodynamic evaluation . fifteen patients ( 31 % ) were found to have persistent residual obstruction , while 14 patients ( 29 % ) had detrusor hyporeflexia . in 9 patients ( 19 % ) a combination of outflow obstruction and detrusor hyporeflexia was demonstrated . in 6 patients ( 13 % ) , urinary retention was due to compromised mental status . no abnormality was detected in remaining 4 patients ( 8 % ) on urodynamic evaluation . for proper evaluation of unsatisfactory voiding after prostatectomy cystoscopy is of limited value while urodynamic testing is essential . 
giant sclerosing leiomyoma of bladder presenting as chronic renal failure . the clinical and pathologic features of a case of giant sclerosing leiomyoma of the bladder in a male polynesian patient are reported . the presenting complication of chronic renal failure due to tumor envelopment of both ureters and consequent bilateral renal obstruction appears to be unique in the literature . 
ureteral stump carcinoma incidentally found at cystectomy for bladder cancer . we report on a sixty-five-year-old man with hematuria secondary to superficial bladder cancer . because of previous urethral trauma , a complete transurethral resection of his bladder tumor could not be done . he , therefore , underwent cystectomy , at which time we incidentally found a transitional cell carcinoma of the left ureteral stump that had been left from a previous left nephrectomy for a world war ii-related injury . this case underscores the importance of a thorough investigation of the complete urinary tract in a patient with hematuria or other urinary tract symptoms even if an obvious cause is found for his symptoms . 
percutaneous transperineal prostate cryosurgery using transrectal ultrasound guidance : animal model . cryosurgery has previously been used successfully to treat prostatic carcinoma . inability to monitor the freezing led to local complications that limited the use of this modality . recent studies have shown that monitoring of the freezing process can be accomplished using real-time ultrasound . in this study , transrectal ultrasound guidance was used to guide a cryoprobe percutaneously , using a transperineal approach , into the prostate . the extent of freezing was then monitored using ultrasound , taking care not to freeze the urethra or the rectum . six dogs had the procedure without any complications . this study demonstrates the feasibility of a noninvasive treatment for prostatic carcinoma . 
tumor-targeted chemotherapy with lipid contrast medium and macromolecular anticancer drug ( smancs ) for renal cell carcinoma . twenty-five patients with renal cell carcinoma were treated with a lipophilic macromolecular drug , poly ( stylene-co-maleic acid ) - conjugated neocarzinostatin ( smancs ) dissolved in lipid contrast medium ( lipiodol ) . the drug was injected by catheterizing the renal artery and another feeding artery in 24 patients , and in the common hepatic artery in 1 patient with metastases to the liver after a radical nephrectomy . the procedure of selective arterial administration of 3-20 mg/ml of smancs/lipiodol was simple to perform and was required once every two to three weeks . total dose of smancs for each patient varied from 3 to 57 mg . both smancs and lipiodol accumulated more selectively in tumor than in any other tissue and remained in the neovasculature and extracapillary space for a long time . ct pattern of the remaining oil contrast medium in the tumor was characterized by the high-density area localized mainly in the periphery of the tumor around the central necrosis . when hyperviscosity lipiodol ( lipiodol hv ) was used as lipid contrast medium , it remained more persistently in the tumor and disappeared more slowly than lipiodol . moreover , the pronounced anticancer effect was recognized when smancs/lipiodol hv was administered compared with only smancs/lipiodol . severe side effects , such as myelosuppression , unendurable pain , paralytic ileus , etc. , were not observed . this targeting chemotherapy may be of great significance for advanced renal cell carcinoma . 
extremely low serum pyridoxal 5 ' - phosphate in children with familial hypophosphatemic rickets . the apparent vitamin b-6 status of 31 children with familial hypophosphatemic rickets ( fhr ) was determined . all children had alkaline phosphatase activity that was high-normal to elevated for their ages . a sensitive assay for pyridoxal 5 ' - phosphate ( plp ) indicated that 15 of the 31 children had an undetectable ( less than 0.2 nmol/l ) concentration of the vitamer -- the lowest values yet reported in human serum . the 16 remaining children had concentrations of the vitamer so low that they indicated a potential severe vitamin b-6 deficiency . however , none of the children had ever presented with any of the classical vitamin b-6-deficiency symptoms . treatment of three additional fhr children with 100 mg pyridoxine.hcl / d resulted in a moderate and transient elevation of their serum plp concentrations , a dramatic elevation of their erythrocyte plp concentrations , and no improvement in clinical condition . serum or plasma plp concentrations are an inappropriate index for determining vitamin b-6 status in people with fhr and perhaps in others with elevated alkaline phosphatase activity . 
pericardial metastasis from testicular seminoma : appearance and disappearance by echocardiography . at the time of initial diagnosis , testicular malignancy is usually limited to the testicle and infradiaphragmatic lymph nodes . metastases initially follow the retroperitoneal lymph channels and subsequently extend to the supradiphragmatic lymph nodes in the mediastinum and supraclavicular fossa . testicular metastases to the pericardium are rare and usually asymptomatic . these lesions are most commonly identified at autopsy ; therefore , the actual incidence is unknown . the authors report a 32-year-old man with testicular carcinoma , who developed asymptomatic pericardial metastases without concomitant supradiaphragmatic nodal or pulmonary metastases . they review the efficacy of echocardiography in diagnosis and follow up or pericardial metastasis . 
diabetic nephropathy : changing concepts of pathogenesis and treatment . the metabolic changes which accompany hyperglycemia in a person with diabetes are thought to cause renal hyperperfusion and intraglomerular hypertension , especially in the person with a predisposition to essential hypertension . intraglomerular hypertension causing deposition of protein in the mesangium leads to glomerulosclerosis and renal failure . screening for microalbuminuria can predict which type i diabetic patients will develop nephropathy . the decline in renal function in established diabetic nephropathy can be slowed with aggressive treatment of hypertension . the use of ace inhibitors may also decrease intraglomerular hypertension . whether similar treatment in the person with preclinical diabetic nephropathy would delay or prevent the onset of diabetic nephropathy is being investigated . restricted protein intake , anti-platelet and rheolitic drugs may have a role in the treatment of established diabetic nephropathy . in end stage renal failure , renal transplantation is the treatment of choice . when transplantation can not be performed , chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis is preferable to hemodialysis . 
