treatment of fournier 's gangrene with adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen therapy . fournier 's gangrene is a devastating infection and often is associated with a high morbidity and mortality . surgical debridement and antibiotics are the cornerstones of therapy . this case describes the use of hyperbaric oxygen as an adjunct in the treatment of fournier 's gangrene . 
uremic platelets have a functional defect affecting the interaction of von willebrand factor with glycoprotein iib-iiia . uremic patients have an impaired platelet function that has been related to membrane glycoprotein ( gp ) abnormalities . using a perfusion system , we have studied the interaction of normal and uremic platelets with vessel subendothelium ( se ) under flow conditions . reconstituted blood containing washed platelets , purified von willebrand factor ( vwf ) ( 1 u/ml ) , and normal washed red blood cells was exposed to de-endothelialized rabbit segments for 10 minutes at two different shear rates ( 800 and 1,600 seconds-1 ) . in some experiments a monoclonal antibody to the gpiib-iiia complex ( edu3 ) was added to the perfusates . with normal platelets , the percentage of the vessel covered by platelets ( % cs ) was 23.1 % + / - 3.7 % at 800 seconds-1 and 30 % + / - 4.3 % at 1,600 seconds-1 . platelets were observed in contact or forming monolayers on vessel se . edu3 inhibited the spreading of normal platelets . the % cs ( 11.1 % + / - 3.3 % ) was statistically decreased ( p less than .01 ) and most of the platelets were observed in contact with the vessel surface . these data indicate that , under flow conditions , the interaction of vwf with gpiib-iiia can support the spreading of normal platelets in the absence of exogenous fibrinogen . under the same experimental conditions , the interaction of uremic platelets with se was markedly impaired at both shear rates studied ( p less than .01 v normal platelets ) . the presence of edu3 did not modify the interaction of uremic platelets . these results confirm the impairment of the platelet adhesion observed in uremic patients . furthermore , they indicate the presence of a functional defect in the interaction of vwf with gpiib-iiia . the fact that perfusions with normal and uremic platelets in the presence of an antibody to the gpiib-iiia complex did not show any differences gives indirect evidence on a functionally normal interaction vwf/gpib in uremic patients . 
analysis of bladder carcinoma by subsite . cystoscopic location may have prognostic value . nine hundred fourteen cases of carcinoma of the urinary bladder registered from 1977 to 1988 with the kansas state tumor registry were evaluated by subsite for differences in grade , histology , sex , age at diagnosis , and survival . only initial occurrences of carcinoma were included . carcinoma of the lateral walls accounted for 37.1 % ; the posterior wall , 17.9 % ; the trigone , 12.6 % ; the neck , 11.1 % ; the ureteric orifices , 9.8 % ; the dome , 7.7 % ; and the anterior wall , 3.8 % . malignant neoplasms occurring in the neck of the bladder had a significantly poorer prognosis by survival analysis ( p less than 0.05 ) . malignancies of the dome were found to present as higher grade lesions ( p = 0.00003 ) , and carcinoma of the ureteric orifices and lateral walls tended to be of lower grade ( p = 0.02 and p = 0.05 , respectively ) . carcinomas of the anterior wall and dome occurred in a more elderly population ( mean ages , 75.6 and 73.9 years , respectively ) , and carcinomas of the trigone and ureteric orifices occurred in a younger group ( mean ages , 68.3 and 67.5 years , respectively ) . on histologic evaluation the trigone gave rise to more squamous cell carcinoma than expected ( p = 0.001 , 325 % of expected ) . no distribution difference was noted among subsites with respect to sex . these data show significant differences among subsites of the urinary bladder with regard to survival , grade , histology , and age at diagnosis . 
myxoid malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the bladder . although the most common soft tissue sarcoma of adulthood , malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( mfh ) is an extremely rare tumor of the urinary bladder . only three well-documented cases have been reported in the world literature . the patient presented in this report represents the first case of the myxoid variant to develop in the urinary bladder . whereas all previous patients with mfh of the bladder had intermittent hematuria , this patient 's chief complaint was bladder outlet obstruction due to extension of the tumor into the prostate . he was managed with radical cystoprostatectomy , postoperative radiation therapy to the tumor bed , and adjuvant chemotherapy using doxorubicin . the patient tolerated the therapy well and was disease-free at the 3-year follow-up visit . the histogenesis , clinical features , pathologic characteristics , and treatment considerations of this rare bladder tumor are discussed in detail . 
evaluation of new rapid office test for microalbuminuria and its comparison to fully quantitative radioimmunoassay . a novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa [ dialbumin ] ) for rapid office measurement of microalbuminuria was evaluated and its performance compared with that of a commercially available radioimmunoassay ( double-antibody albumin ) . urine samples containing between 0.75 and 1800 micrograms/ml of albumin were obtained from 31 diabetic patients and assayed by both methods . a comparison of the paired values obtained from the two methods gave a correlation coefficient of greater than 0.99 . the dialbumin assay , which used detachable eight-well strips ( 1 strip/sample ) , 10-min incubation , tap water wash , and a 2-min color development step , was read on both an elisa reader and a hand-held analytical device ( acc-u-dial ) designed specifically for this test . the findings of this study indicate that the dialbumin assay , used in conjunction with the acc-u-dial device , affords a rapid , convenient , and sensitive method for quantitative determination of a broad range ( 0.3-1280 micrograms/ml ) of urinary albumin levels in the office setting . 
comparison of albumin excretion rate obtained with different times of collection . this study was undertaken to assess the usefulness of different techniques for determination of albumin excretion rate ( aer ) . ninety patients with type i ( insulin-dependent ) diabetes mellitus and 45 with type ii ( non-insulin-dependent ) diabetes mellitus , with aer/24 h of less than 200 micrograms/min , were included . all patients were free of major systemic complications of diabetes and overt kidney disease ( mean serum creatinine 1.1 + / - 0.1 mg/dl , range 0.4-1 .2 mg/dl ) . we compared timed day , night , and 24-h specimens , as well as timed spot specimens during water-induced diuresis . most patients with type i ( 75 of 90 ) and type ii ( 30 of 45 ) diabetes had aer less than 20 micrograms/min and showed significant differences in aer that were dependent on the collection time . differences were diminished or absent with aer less than 20 micrograms/min . sensitivity , specificity , and prediction rates of aer in different specimens were evaluated against 24-h aer . use of albumin concentrations and albumin-creatinine ratios did not improve test performance in comparison with aer . sampling time and the overall rate of aer influenced measurement of urinary albumin excretion . day or 24-h aer is most useful to determine the presence of abnormal aer . aer and albumin concentration in spot samples are of limited use for initial screening and frequently require day or 24-h specimens of aer for confirmation . day or 24-h aer should be used for long-term follow-up of the diabetic patient . 
relationship of psychiatric illness to impotence in men with diabetes . clinical data from 37 adult males with diabetes mellitus ( insulin dependent , n = 22 ; non-insulin dependent , n = 15 ) who had undergone psychiatric diagnosis and peripheral nerve conduction studies were reviewed to determine whether psychiatric illness was significantly related to complaints of sexual dysfunction . main-effects testing revealed that impotence was associated with both neuropathy ( p less than 0.01 ) and psychiatric illness ( p less than 0.001 ) . logistic regression analysis was then used to determine the independent relationships of these two variables with impotence . after controlling for the effects of neuropathy , psychiatric illness ( generalized anxiety disorder and depression ) remained significantly associated with sexual dysfunction ( p less than 0.01 ) . these data allow for the hypothesis that psychiatric illness may be an important contributor to impotence in diabetic men , as it is in nondiabetic men , even when neuropathic complications of the disease are present . 
treatment of idiopathic testicular failure with high-dose testosterone undecanoate : a double-blind pilot study . the effect of high-dose ( 240 mg/d ) intake of testosterone ( t ) undecanoate was studied for sperm characteristics , function of the accessory sex glands , and hormonal parameters of men with idiopathic oligozoospermia , asthenozoospermia , or teratozoospermia using a two-phase protocol including a 3-month double-blind period followed by a 3-month open phase . increased sperm viability and semen content of adenosine triphosphate were either not reproducible after patients on placebo were switched over to t undecanoate or did not reach statistical significance , whereas no changes were detected in other sperm characteristics and the accessory sex glands . intake of t undecanoate significantly increased the concentration of 5-alpha-dihydrotestosterone ( dht ) and the ratio of dht over t in peripheral blood , suppressed the luteinizing hormone concentration , and tended to decrease serum follicle-stimulating hormone concentration . it is concluded that high-dose t undecanoate is not effective in the treatment of men with infertility with idiopathic testicular failure . 
a portable digital data recorder for long-term monitoring of scrotal temperatures the application of a new , miniaturized portable digital data recorder " thermoport " ( institute for reproductive medicine , munster , west germany ) for continuous determination of scrotal temperatures revealed great variations of scrotal temperature during 24 hours in normal men . maximum temperatures approached body core temperatures . mean scrotal temperatures of 10 normal men rose during sauna from 32.72 + / - 0.23 degrees c to 37.53 + / - 0.38 degrees c. during treadmill running , scrotal temperatures increased by more than 2.5 degrees c. minimal scrotal temperatures were increased in some men with varicocele compared with normal fertile men indicating impaired cooling mechanisms . the continuous temperature measurements facilitate assessment of temperature dynamics . the miniaturized design of the thermoport makes it suitable for routine use in outpatients of infertility clinics , in occupational medicine for evaluation of heat hazards , and for investigations of body temperatures under various experimental conditions . 
analysis of sperm function in globozoospermia : implications for the mechanism of sperm-zona interaction . the globozoospermic condition has provided a unique opportunity to determine how the abnormal mitochondrial organization and acrosomal loss associated with this syndrome , influence sperm function . despite the abnormal midpiece architecture , the movement characteristics of the spermatozoa , in terms of the curvilinear , path , and progressive velocities , amplitude of head displacement , and hyperactivation were all within the normal range . similarly , the behavior of the spermatozoa on percoll gradients was normal , although the capacity of the isolated fractions to generate reactive oxygen species was negligible . of particular significance was the fact that the globozoospermic spermatozoa were incapable of sperm-oocyte fusion or binding the human zona pellucida , even after an intracellular calcium signal had been generated with the ionophore a23187 . the sudden induction of sperm-zona interaction could , however , be achieved by the use of a ferrous ion promoter system to induce limited lipoperoxidation . this result demonstrates that the enhancing effect of peroxidation on sperm-zona adhesion involves a direct action on the properties of the sperm-plasma membrane , rather than an indirect consequence of acrosomal damage and acrosin leakage . such findings emphasize the value of specific teratozoospermic conditions , such as globozoospermia , in dissecting the mechanisms that regulate human sperm function . 
genitourinary mycobacteria in infertile egyptian men . forty infertile patients with a preliminary diagnosis of genitourinary tuberculosis were selected for our study when they presented with one or more of the following : ( 1 ) personal or family history of tuberculosis , ( 2 ) sterile pyuria , ( 3 ) voiding urinary symptoms , ( 4 ) abnormality in the epididymis , ( 5 ) hemospermia , and ( 6 ) clinically unexplained obligoathenospermia . direct smear examination by ziehl-neelsen stain for 24-hour urine and freshly ejaculated semen for 3 days as well as culture of midstream urine and semen were done on egg media . urine smear was positive ( + ) ive in 20 patients ( 50 % ) , culture was ( + ) ive in 23 ( 57.5 % ) , whereas for semen smear was ( + ) ive in 3 ( 7.3 % ) and culture was ( + ) ive in 5 ( 20 % ) . tuberculous mycobacteria were detected in 5 of 23 cases ( 21.7 % ) . nontuberculous mycobacteria were detected in 18 of 23 cases ( 78.3 % ) . mycobacterium smegmatis was the most common mycobacterium isolated . there was improvement of the seminal picture , though not significant , after therapy . 
development of hypertension from unilateral renal artery stenosis in conscious dogs . the renal and systemic changes after stenosis of the left renal artery ( n = 5 ) or sham stenosis ( n = 6 ) in conscious dogs were studied sequentially over 25 days . stenosis produced a prompt rise in arterial pressure , which was at all times due to reduced peripheral vascular conductance , with no increase in cardiac output despite initial evidence of mild fluid retention . the decrease in peripheral conductance was attributable to 1 ) the stenotic kidney ( 25 % of the total and due to the mechanical effect of the stenosis itself ) , 2 ) the nonstenotic kidney ( about 15 % of the total and not caused by angiotensin ii ) , and 3 ) the nonrenal vasculature ( 60 % ) . the decrease in conductance in the nonrenal vasculature was due partly to angiotensin ii , but there was also a gradually developing non-angiotensin ii component . acute administration of captopril caused significantly greater changes in arterial pressure and peripheral conductance throughout the period of stenosis than before stenosis ( and greater than in sham-stenosis dogs ) , indicating that angiotensin ii was constricting the peripheral vasculature even when plasma renin levels were no longer elevated . in the stenotic kidneys , captopril produced a fall in renal vascular resistance , but renal blood flow did not rise because there was an approximately equal rise in the resistance of the stenosis . there was no evidence for a role for the autonomic nervous system in the hypertension , as ganglion blockade ( pentolinium ) had similar hemodynamic effects before and after stenosis . thus , the hypertension was due at all times to reduced peripheral conductance , with the two kidneys responsible for 40 % of this reduced conductance . 
comparison of converting enzyme inhibitor and calcium channel blocker in hypertensive glomerular injury . the protective effect of converting enzyme inhibitors in experimental hypertensive glomerular injury is associated with decreased systemic arterial and glomerular capillary pressure . although calcium channel blockers effectively lower systemic blood pressure , their effect on glomerular capillary pressure and on hypertensive glomerular injury is uncertain . we compared equihypotensive treatment with the calcium antagonist ta 3090 or the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril in post-salt hypertensive dahl salt-sensitive ( ds ) rats for up to 5 weeks after five sixths nephrectomy . before the nephrectomy , all rats demonstrated hypertension ( mean 177 mm hg ) , proteinuria ( mean 175 mg/day ) , and mild glomerulosclerosis ( mean injury score 35 ) . rats treated with captopril or ta 3090 demonstrated a significant and equivalent decrease in systolic blood pressure compared with untreated rats at 2 , 3 , and 5 weeks after five sixths nephrectomy ; however , only captopril reduced proteinuria . final proteinuria was actually increased in rats treated with ta 3090 compared with untreated rats . glomerular injury score was significantly decreased in captopril-treated compared with untreated rats at 2 weeks ( 33 + / - 9 versus 117 + / - 10 , p less than 0.05 ) and 5 weeks ( 46 + / - 9 versus 94 + / - 24 , p less than 0.05 ) , whereas treatment with ta 3090 delayed but did not prevent progressive glomerular injury ( 2-week score 35 + / - 7 , p less than 0.05 versus untreated ; 5-week score 109 + / - 19 , p = ns versus untreated ) . thus , in hypertensive ds rats after subtotal nephrectomy , treatment with a converting enzyme inhibitor reduced systemic blood pressure , proteinuria , and glomerulosclerosis . however , equihypotensive treatment with a calcium channel blocker did not reduce proteinuria and delayed but did not prevent glomerulosclerosis . thus , in the rat similar reductions in systemic blood pressure with these two classes of agents have disparate effects on the progression of chronic renal failure . 
mechanical cardiopulmonary support for refractory cardiogenic shock . from february 1982 to february 1990 , 38 patients ( 30 male patients and 8 female patients ) ranging in age from 10 to 78 years ( mean 49.4 years ) have been supported with arteriovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) at st. louis university medical center as a resuscitative system for cardiac arrest or cardiogenic shock . all patients were unresponsive to conventional resuscitative measures including an intraaortic balloon pump in 25 patients . patients were resuscitated in the intensive care unit , cardiac catheterization laboratory , or the emergency department . diagnosis varied from acute myocardial infarctions ( 12 patients ) , ischemic disease ( 15 patients ) , end-stage cardiomyopathy ( 7 patients ) , congenital heart disease ( 3 patients ) , or postoperative cardiac transplant graft rejection ( 1 patient ) . three patients could not be resuscitated with ecmo because of low flow , but the remaining 35 ( 92 % ) achieved hemodynamic stability with ecmo flows greater than 2 l/min/m2 . duration of support ranged from 0.5 to 130 hours ( mean 28 hours ) . twenty-four patients were successfully weaned from ecmo support after coronary artery bypass ( five patients ) , cardiac transplantation ( two patients ) , or ventricular assist device insertion ( eight patients ) , or with inotropic support ( nine patients ) . of the 14 patients not weaned , three were inadequately resuscitated , two had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty while receiving ecmo , and nine were not candidates for further intervention . nine ( 24 % ) patients were discharged and are long-term survivors . our results indicate that resuscitative ecmo is useful for intervals of 12 to 24 hours and can best be applied with ( 1 ) patients younger than 60 years of age ; ( 2 ) patients having acute events ( failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ) amenable to surgical intervention ; and ( 3 ) candidates for cardiac transplantation who could be switched to more sophisticated devices within 12 to 24 hours of ecmo insertion . with these criteria , ecmo , when used as a resuscitative system , can result in increased survival in selected patients with refractory cardiogenic shock or cardiac arrest . 
essential fatty acid deficiency ameliorates acute renal dysfunction in the rat after the administration of the aminonucleoside of puromycin . the administration of the aminonucleoside of puromycin ( pan ) to rats causes the nephrotic syndrome that is associated with an acute decline in renal function , and an interstitial infiltrate . we examined whether essential fatty acid deficiency ( efad ) , which inhibits macrophage infiltration in glomerulonephritis , affects pan-induced renal dysfunction . both control and efad rats developed proteinuria that resolved over 28 d. after pan administration , there was a prominent infiltration of macrophages in rats fed a normal diet . the infiltrate was prevented by the efad diet . the absence of a macrophage interstitial infiltrate was associated with a significantly higher cin in the efad rats than in controls at 7 d ( 5.21 + / - 1.19 versus 0.39 + / - 0.08 , p less than 0.002 ml/min/kg bw ) . in addition , cpah fell to less than 10 ml/min/kg bw by day 7 in controls , but remained the same as normal in the efad . after administration of pan to control rats , there was no increase in urinary thromboxane excretion or an increase in glomerular thromboxane production . furthermore , the effect of efad could not be mimicked by the administration of a thromboxane synthase inhibitor . irradiation-induced leukopenia in rats on a normal diet markedly improved glomerular filtration and renal blood flow in acutely nephrotic rats . efad prevents the interstitial cellular infiltrate and the renal ischemia associated with experimental nephrosis . the recruitment of mononuclear cells into the kidney following pan directly contributes to the decline in renal function . 
induction of renal growth and injury in the intact rat kidney by dietary deficiency of antioxidants . we report induction of renal growth and injury in the intact rat kidney using a diet deficient in vitamin e and selenium . this diet was imposed in 3-wk-old male weanling rats , and after 9 wk , enhancement of growth , characterized by increased wet weight , dry weight , protein content , and dna content appeared . morphometric analyses revealed increased kidney volume , tubular epithelial volume , and mean glomerular volume . there were no differences in nephron number . the animals on the deficient diet displayed increased urinary protein excretion at 9 wk . renal injury was also characterized by an interstitial cellular infiltrate and diminutions in glomerular filtration rate . enhanced growth and injury were antedated by increased renal ammoniagenesis . the deficient diet did not induce metabolic acidosis , potassium depletion , glucose intolerance , or elevated plasma amino acid concentration . enhancement of renal growth and ammoniagenesis by the deficient diet was not suppressible by chronic alkali therapy . stimulation of renal growth could not be ascribed to increased intrarenal iron , induction of ornithine decarboxylase , or alterations in glomerular hemodynamics . stimulation of renal ammoniagenesis by dietary deficiency of antioxidants is a novel finding , as is induction of growth and injury . we suggest that increased renal ammoniagenesis contributes to induction of renal growth and injury . 
testicular sex cord stromal tumour with granulosa cell differentiation : detection of steroid hormone receptors as a possible basis for tumour development and therapeutic management . a testicular sex cord stromal tumour with granulosa cell differentiation , typical of granulosa cell tumours of the adult type , was investigated immunohistologically on snap frozen and paraffin wax embedded material . the predominance of vimentin and the additional expression of cytokeratin subtypes 8 and 18 , as well as the negative staining for epithelial membrane antigen , accorded with results previously reported , for ovarian granulosa cell tumours ; the lack of expression of desmoplakin , however , was a distinctive feature . together with negative staining for leucocyte common antigen , the antigen pattern facilitates the differential diagnosis between granulosa cell tumour and undifferentiated carcinoma or gonadal lymphoma , although its suitability for differentiating within the group of gonadal stromal tumours seems to be limited . the small growth fraction , shown by the monoclonal antibody ki-67 , is typical of the clinical behaviour of granulosa cell tumours . the expression of oestrogen and progesterone receptors , also recently found in testicular leydig cell tumours , may provoke new approaches to the management of testicular granulosa cell tumours , as well as a new hypothesis on the development of these tumours . 
an external urine collection device for incontinent women . evaluation of long-term use . urinary incontinence is common in aged women , may precipitate nursing home admission , and may prompt use of a urine collection device , usually an indwelling urethral catheter . the safety and efficacy of a new external urine collection device for women that is affixed to the perineum by an adhesive developed for ostomy bags was evaluated . applied to 26 aged women , 78 % of 2,264 devices were leak-free for 24 hours and 49 % for 48 hours . the incidence of new bacteriuria was less than half that found in our earlier studies of long-term urethral catheters in the same institution . perineal erythema was infrequent and preexisting decubitus ulcers improved or did not change . four patients were withdrawn , one each because of periurethral itching , diminished urine output , recurrent wetness , and fracture of the proximal femur associated with severe osteoporosis . this device may offer an alternative to urethral catheters for management of urinary incontinence but should not be used on women with urine retention and should be used with care on women with severe osteoporosis . controlled trials must determine effects upon bacteriologic complications and health-care costs . 
experimental treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia with transurethral balloon dilation of the prostate : preliminary study in 73 humans . a prospective noncontrolled study of the safety and potential efficacy of transurethral balloon catheter dilation of the prostate ( tudp ) in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( bph ) was performed in 73 subjects with moderate to severe symptoms and signs of prostatism who were selected on the basis of a quantitative symptom score ( ss ) , uroflowmetry measurements , and residual urine volume . seven patients had urinary retention . mean age was 69.6 years ( range , 59-95 years ) . tudp was successfully accomplished in 70 patients ( 96 % ) . there were no significant complications . mean follow-up was 16.2 months ( range , 6-36 months ) . forty-six patients ( 66 % ) showed improved ss at the most recent follow-up . in 24 patients ( 34 % ) ss was unimproved , necessitating prostatectomy in 17 subjects ( 24 % ) . reduction in mean residual urine volume was not statistically significant . only 38 % of patients with median lobe enlargement showed improvement in ss , compared with 74 % for the others . the authors conclude that tudp is safe and shows promising effectiveness and that the ultimate demonstration of effectiveness requires a controlled clinical trial . 
hypointense renal cell carcinoma : mr imaging with pathologic correlation . in two pathologically documented cases of renal cell carcinoma , the appearance of the tumors at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was markedly hypointense relative to normal renal parenchyma on both t1 - and t2-weighted spin-echo images . pathologic examination of both tumors revealed diffuse iron scattered throughout the tumors . the paramagnetic effect of the iron may account for this unusual hypointense appearance at spin-echo imaging , independent of pulse sequence . 
renal artery stenosis in patients with aortic dissection : increased prevalence the authors retrospectively analyzed the prevalence of renal artery stenosis in 63 consecutive patients with aortic dissection who underwent thoracic and abdominal aortography . ten patients ( 16 % ) had renal artery stenosis , five with atherosclerosis and five with fibromuscular lesions . risk factors for aortic dissection were marfan disease in nine patients , bicuspid aortic valve in one , and hypertension in 54 ( including seven patients with marfan syndrome ) . if the patients with marfan syndrome and the patient with the bicuspid aortic valve are excluded , renal artery stenosis was present in 10 of 53 patients ( 19 % ) when the cause of dissection was presumably hypertension . this finding suggests that renovascular hypertension is a greater risk factor for aortic dissection than is essential hypertension . the success of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty ( ptra ) in controlling renovascular hypertension has been proved . in this series , emergent ptra successfully controlled the hypertension in one patient with a type b dissection , resulting in an excellent clinical outcome . angiography should be routinely performed on patients with aortic dissections to evaluate for renal artery stenosis . 
nephrotoxicity associated with concomitant ace inhibitor and nsaid therapy . angiotensin-i converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) can be nephrotoxic and may synergistically compromise renal function . a computer-assisted study was done to asses the prevalence of compromised renal function and the clinical importance of this drug interaction . a search of the records of all patients seen in the university of nebraska medical center internal medicine clinic was conducted to identify cases involving renal insufficiency , therapy with ace inhibitors , or therapy with nsaids . records of cases meeting these criteria were reviewed for clinical correlation and revealed 2278 patients treated with nsaids , 328 with ace inhibitors , and 162 with both . no nephrotoxicity was found in conjunction with monotherapy , but three cases of reversible renal failure were found in conjunction with combination therapy . significant nephrotoxicity during the concomitant use of ace inhibitors and nsaids is not uncommon , and attention should be drawn to this potentially important interaction . 
the absence of nephrotoxicity and differential nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin . we conducted a prospective , double-blind , randomized trial of gentamicin and tobramycin to evaluate differences in nephrotoxicity . we evaluated levels of creatinine , creatinine clearance , beta 2-microglobulin , and n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase ( nag ) as indicators of nephrotoxicity , and attempted to correlate them . forty patients met the criteria for evaluation ; 14 were given tobramycin and the remaining 26 received gentamicin . significant nephrotoxicity , as defined by an increase in creatinine of 0.5 mg/dl , did not occur in either group . increases in beta 2-microglobulin values were seen in 67 % of the patients in the tobramycin group , and 52 % of those in the gentamicin group . elevations in nag levels occurred in 54 % of those in the tobramycin group and 52 % of those in the gentamicin group . elevation of nag and beta 2-microglobulin levels was congruent in only 40 % of the cases . we conclude that there was no significant difference in nephrotoxicity between gentamicin and tobramycin . elevations of nag and beta 2-microglobulin occurred at rates similar to those reported in the literature , but they did not correlate with significant nephrotoxicity . 
duplex doppler examination of a perinephric abscess in a renal transplant . perinephric abscess has no characteristic ultrasonic appearance or location . differentiation from urinoma , lymphocele , or hematoma depends on clinical and laboratory findings . therapy consists of percutaneous catheter drainage , surgical drainage , and antibiotic therapy . acute rejection is the most common cause of decreased diastolic flow during the immediate postoperative period . acute tubular necrosis does not usually alter blood flow unless it is severe . duplex doppler ultrasonic assessment of the renal transplant during the immediate postoperative period may provide a valuable baseline for comparison if complications develop . baseline and follow-up ultrasonography to evaluate diastolic flow can help determine whether a posttransplant patient should receive emergency or conservative therapy for complications . 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in patients who undergo open heart surgery . to determine whether heparin-dependent antiplatelet antibodies ( haab ) have an effect on morbidity and/or mortality rates , we reviewed the cases of 3438 patients who underwent open heart surgery from 1981 to 1989 . forty-six patients ( 1.3 % ) had haab . the patients were divided into two groups : those patients who were known to have haab before surgery ( group i ) and those patients who were diagnosed with haab after surgery ( group ii ) . group i patients ( n = 5 ) were pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before reexposure to heparin during cardiopulmonary bypass and were maintained with strict abstinence from heparin afterward . their lowest observed platelet counts ranged from 42,000 / mm3 to 89,000 / mm3 ( median , 63,00 / mm3 ) . thromboembolic complications did not occur , and all patients survived . group ii patients ( n = 41 ) who were diagnosed to have haab after surgery had not been pretreated with platelet-inhibiting drugs before surgery . lowest platelet counts ranged from 11,000 / mm3 to 128,000 / mm3 ( median , 42,000 / mm3 ) . bleeding complications occurred in 21 patients ( 51 % ) , and thromboembolic complications occurred in 13 patients ( 32 % ) . hospital mortality in group ii patients was 37 % . late recognition of haab was associated with an increase in morbidity and mortality rates . thromboembolic complications of haab , which had been diagnosed before surgery , were eliminated , and bleeding was reduced by pretreatment with platelet-inhibiting drugs and strict abstinence from heparin after surgery . 
results of infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease . limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) is complicated by the diffuse , obstructive , calcific arteriopathy that makes anastomotic technique especially critical . furthermore , decreased resistance to infection and impaired wound healing produced by host-factor deficiencies such as diabetes mellitus , hypoalbuminemia , uremia , and immunosuppression produce additional obstacles to successful limb salvage . this report summarizes our experience with distal arterial bypass procedures in these patients . a total of 32 bypass procedures were performed for limb salvage in 24 patients ( 17 diabetic ) during a period of 5 years . the operative mortality rate was 6 % . during the same period , 635 infrainguinal bypass procedures were performed by the in situ technique in patients without esrd . primary bypass patency was comparable in both groups at 24 months ( 92 % vs 90 % ) . in the group with esrd , overall limb salvage was 83 % at 2 years . life-table analysis of bypass patency and limb salvage was thought not to be appropriate in the population with esrd beyond 2 years because of the increased mortality rate ( 38 % ; 9/24 ) during this interval . it is important that limb salvage was achieved in diabetic patients with esrd in the presence of extensive foot gangrene or ischemic ulceration . revascularization should be considered strongly for limb salvage in all patients in this difficult population . 
pulmonary disease following intravesical bcg treatment . bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) is an attenuated strain of mycobacterium bovis that has been used in the treatment of malignant disease for over 20 years and for the treatment of bladder cancer since 1976 . major complications of this treatment are infrequent . we report two cases of systemic illness with pulmonary manifestations after treatment with intravesical bcg . 
natural history of low-stage prostatic cancer and the impact of early detection . an expanding and increasingly older population , a rising incidence of prostate cancer , and uncertainties regarding treatment effectiveness have made this disease a target of special concern . the natural history of the cancer must be a consequence of host-tumor interactions , but little is known for sure about this subject . the growth rate of the tumor is determined by many factors , including genetic instability . at present , tumor grade , volume , and ploidy are the most useful techniques for judging the growth rate and metastatic potential . stage a1 tumors generally are indolent , whereas stage a2 tumors are more aggressive . the natural history of stage b lesions is not well documented . the author asks two questions ( is cure necessary in those in whom it may be possible ? is cure possible in those in whom it may be necessary ? ) and reviews the problems inherent in screening for prostate cancer at this time . 
epidemiology of prostate cancer . available epidemiologic data do not allow targeting of specific populations for prostate cancer screening or early detection programs . although certain strong factors have been identified ( age , race , location ) , none sufficiently defines high-risk groups in whom recommendations should differ from those of other age-matched patients . certainly , a strong familial tendency has been identified , but the relative contribution of genetic and environmental factors in these patients remains unclear . some hypotheses on the pathogenesis of prostate cancer are possible based on the available data . genetic factors appear to be permissive , as are hormonal influences , which are partially regulated by genetics . environmental factors appear to be promotional in genetically susceptible men . dietary fat may also be an important promotional factor in genetically susceptible men . dietary factors appear to exert some influence by modulating sex hormone concentration . several factors demand more investigation and understanding of the epidemiology of prostate cancer . the relative frequency of the disease and the increasing death rate from prostate cancer are of concern . the similarities in the incidence of latent prostate cancer among various groups with strong differences in the rate of clinically apparent disease raise significant issues regarding potential lifestyle or environmental promotional factors . further understanding of the pathogenesis of prostate cancer may allow a refinement and definition of programs for prevention and early detection of the disease . 
economics of screening for carcinoma of the prostate . the proposition of whether to adopt a system of mass screening for carcinoma of the prostate in the u.s. is well suited to the clinical decision analysis approach . the authors demonstrate this by using available data , which suggest that offering a screening program to all men ages 50 to 70 would be prohibitively expensive . the method also permits calculation of the eventual morbidity of screening and its costs . this analysis demonstrates the importance of attempting to predict ultimate patient outcomes before implementing any health care strategy as standard . 
digital rectal examination in the early detection of prostate cancer . screening using digital rectal examination improves the clinical stage distribution of prostate cancer and prolongs survival . unfortunately , digital rectal examination may not be sensitive enough to detect the small-volume tumors that are most amenable to cure . in several studies , approximately 50 per cent of cancers detected through screening had already spread beyond the prostate . regardless , the key to demonstrating overall benefit from screening is a diminished disease-specific mortality rate . to date , this has not been shown . lower mortality rates from prostate cancer can be demonstrated only through a randomized study comparing screened and unscreened populations . such a study , which has recently been approved and funded by the national institutes of health , will require 10 to 15 years to complete . until that time , the value of screening for prostate cancer by digital rectal examination or any other method will be unknown . beyond a lack of proved benefit , screening for prostate cancer may be harmful because of the variable natural history of the disease and the morbidity and mortality rates associated with treatment . there exists a large population of patients with pathologically detectable prostate cancer who will never have clinical disease . the detection of some of these tumors may expose those patients to the risks of unnecessary treatment . large-scale prostate cancer screening studies may ultimately be shown to be advantageous . the sooner this occurs , the earlier aggressive screening can be advocated , similar to screening for breast cancer . however , the temptation to embark on such screening programs without first demonstrating clear benefit should be resisted . 
transrectal ultrasonography for the early detection and staging of prostate cancer . relatively recent changes and improvements in equipment have vastly increased image resolution for transrectal ultrasonography of the prostate . the expanded use of transrectal ultrasonography has greatly furthered knowledge of prostate zonal anatomy and permitted clinical evaluation of internal prostate architecture . the technique is operator dependent , as the quality of the results is related directly to that person 's knowledge and experience . the significant majority of prostate cancers originate from the peripheral zone . palpable stage b nodules characteristically have a hypoechoic appearance . there is disagreement about the tumor characteristics that cause hypoechogenicity , but large tumors may obscure the normal prostate anatomy and appear isoechoic because of the lack of contrast with surrounding prostate tissue . the transition zone of the prostate is the origin of benign prostatic hyperplasia and almost 20 per cent of prostate cancers . these tumors probably correspond to most stage a lesions . transrectal ultrasonography is less accurate in identifying transition zone tumors because of the mixed echogenicity of the transition zone , interference from prostatic calculi or calcified corpora amylacea , and poorer image resolution in this area . studies evaluating the use of transrectal ultrasonography for early detection of prostate cancer generally have shown a twofold increase in the detection rate compared with digital rectal examination . however , the decreased morbidity and expense of transrectal prostate biopsy using an automatic gun device have increased the frequency of biopsy in ultrasound-examined patients compared with those historically evaluated by digital rectal examination . the increased detection rate may in part be a function of the increased use of biopsies , independent of other factors . transrectal ultrasonography rarely detects cancer in patient with normal digital rectal examination and a normal serum prostate-specific antigen level . transrectal ultrasonography may be capable of identifying early capsular penetration or seminal vesicle invasion in some patients with known prostate cancer . however , its superiority to digital rectal examination for this purpose has not been demonstrated unequivocally . ultrasonography does allow directed biopsies of the seminal vesicles or other suspect areas , and this may be helpful in staging the disease . the use of transrectal ultrasonography in prostate cancer has evolved rapidly , and changes in technology antiquate reports within a few years . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
laboratory studies for the detection of carcinoma of the prostate . acid phosphatase and prostate-specific antigen are extremely useful markers for the management of patients with prostatic carcinoma . prostatic acid phosphatase , because of its relatively low sensitivity and specificity , as well as analyte instability and diurnal variability , is unsuitable for prostate cancer screening . improved performance characteristics , stability , the lesser diurnal variation , and the association of elevated prostate-specific antigen with prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia make prostate-specific antigen possibly a better candidate for early detection of this common malignancy . further investigations in this area are clearly indicated before we can recommend screening with prostate-specific antigen . 
management of stage a prostate cancer . transrectal ultrasonography has defined a new category of stage a disease , namely nonpalpable lesions diagnosed by needle biopsy . how this type relates to classic stage a disease is unclear . stage a1 carcinoma becomes clinically significant only in a distinct minority of patients , and even in this group , progression does not necessarily mean significant morbidity or death from prostate cancer . an aggressive approach is not justified . in contrast , stage a2 cancer is usually virulent , and aggressive therapy with curative intent is justified in patients of appropriate age and health . both radical prostatectomy and external irradiation appear to provide long-term survival rates superior to those obtained with observation alone , but nearly 20 % of these patients will die of cancer despite therapy . unfortunately , forecasting the outcome in an individual case is still not possible , and efforts to identify prognostic features must continue . in the meantime , emotional arguments in favor of the treatment of all discovered cancers must be suppressed by an informed and objective understanding of the natural history of nonpalpable prostate cancer and the potential impact of treatment . 
selection of patients with stage b prostate cancer for radical prostatectomy . there are several areas of concern in dealing with clinical stage b disease . first , understaging is common . second , recognition of extension into the seminal vesicles is important . third , the patient 's predicted life expectancy must be taken into account . moreover , even clinically localized prostate cancer may have metastasized , and the need for surgical staging by lymph node dissection has been a significant factor in the authors ' preference for radical retropubic rather than radical perineal prostatectomy . neither of the two serum markers in clinical use is an absolute predictor of stage . analysis of tumor ploidy may prove useful , and transrectal ultrasound warrants further study . in the elderly patient , the urologist certainly may elect to monitor the tumor without definitely deciding on operative versus conservative treatment . 
radiation therapy for localized prostate cancer . justification by long-term follow-up . in the series presented here , survival patterns at 15 years after radiotherapy for patients with clinical stage a carcinoma of the prostate did not deviate significantly from those of an age-matched peer group . for patients with clinical stage b disease ( nodular disease that did not exceed involvement of one lateral lobe ) , survival was only 5 % less at 15 years than for the age-matched group of california men . this was in spite of the fact that the lymph node status and the true incidence of capsular penetration were unknown . moreover , the patients were not stratified by histopathologic grade or by either acid phosphatase or prostate-specific antigen values . if one were to restrict the patients to those with intermediate and low gleason scores , normal acid phosphatase , and low prostate-specific antigen values , it is likely that there would have been no difference between the survival of those with prostatic cancer and their age-matched peers . as one deviates from these conservative selection criteria and includes patients with more advanced stages , the likelihood of achieving 15-year survival diminishes . with radiation treatment , however , patients whose disease , by clinical examination , extends beyond the prostate and who seem too advanced for radical prostatectomy still may have a 20 per cent to 30 per cent chance of 15-year survival . 
significance and treatment of positive margins or seminal vesicle invasion after radical prostatectomy . the periprostatic soft-tissue involvement described in the older urologic literature differs from that now recognized ; a much " earlier " pathologic stage c is being identified . apparent microscopic extension of the cancer to the margin of the specimen yields an approximately 25 % risk of local recurrence . postoperative radiation apparently is effective in reducing this risk , and if patients are properly selected , such treatment is well tolerated . whether adjuvant radiation affects overall survival is not known . new observations on pathologic extension of the disease need to be refined . 
prostate-specific antigen for staging prior to surgery and for early detection of recurrence after surgery . the exact usefulness of prostate-specific antigen for staging before radical prostatectomy is still unclear . perhaps the marker 's most exciting feature is its value in detecting residual disease after radical prostatectomy . the author also discusses the technical questions in testing and interpretation . 
patient selection for , results of , and impact on tumor resection of potency-sparing radical prostatectomy . our results show that by using the nerve-sparing radical retropubic prostatectomy , potency can be preserved in the majority of appropriately selected patients without compromising the adequacy of tumor excision . however , proper patient selection is important . patients with focal , well-differentiated tumors , especially young patients with stage a or b1 tumors , are ideal candidates . in patients with more extensive and less well-differentiated tumors , there is a higher risk of incomplete tumor excision . although we suspect that the adequacy of tumor excision is determined more by the extent of the tumor than by the technique of radical prostatectomy used , we believe that nerve-sparing surgery should be used with great caution , if at all , in patients with extensive or high-grade tumors . in these patients , microscopic extracapsular tumor extension is extremely common , can be impossible to detect at the time of operation , and is less likely to be adequately encompassed by nerve-sparing techniques . on the other hand , our current data provide little evidence that excision of the neurovascular bundles is beneficial . it is possible that more extensive resections will not materially alter the incidence of positive margins or cure rates . finally , it might be argued that all forms of radical prostatectomy are inappropriate for patients with poorly differentiated clinical stage b2 prostate cancer for whom there are no really effective treatment options . we continue to recommend radical prostatectomy for these patients based on the finding that patients with clinical stage b2 disease who have organ-confined tumors can be expected to have excellent long-term disease-free survival rates similar to those of clinical stage b1 patients . in the remaining patients who are clinically understaged , the prospects for the minimal microscopic tumor remaining being controlled with adjunctive radiation therapy may be better than those of controlling the bulky primary tumor with radiation therapy alone . this hypothesis will need to be tested in a randomized clinical trial . 
the case for no initial treatment of localized prostate cancer . this contribution summarizes the evidence from the natural history and pathology of this disease that , given the high incidence of latent cancer , a policy of radical treatment at diagnosis will represent over-treatment in the majority of cases . as yet , neither radical prostatectomy nor radical radiotherapy has been shown to be effective in managing the poorly differentiated tumor in the patient with " localized " disease . for the patient with well-differentiated disease , there is little evidence that early treatment is mandatory , because the majority of these patients will not die of prostatic cancer . the adoption of a policy of diagnosis followed by active surveillance would spare many patients the hazard and discomfort of a major operation or of a course of radiotherapy , would minimize expenditure , and would ensure that treatment was given only to those patients in whom progression had been demonstrated . such an approach is almost certain to be as effective as treatment at diagnosis . confirmation of this view is likely to be obtained from the existing studies of immediate versus delayed orchiectomy or lhrh therapy currently being undertaken by the urological working party of the medical research council in the united kingdom and the urological group of the eortc within europe . 
local failure and related complications after definitive treatment of carcinoma of the prostate by irradiation or surgery . the authors review their institution 's experience with the failure of definitive treatment to achieve local tumor control and with the distant dissemination and local morbidity associated with such failure . the causes of local failure are various : incomplete resection , implantation of spilled cells , and , possibly , selective implantation of circulating tumor cells in traumatized tissues after surgery and totally or partially resistant cells , new tumors , or radiologic misses after radiation . treatment of local failure may be prophylactic or therapeutic and differs depending on the stage of the disease . failure to control the tumor locally in the presence of distant metastases does not alter the length of survival , but it can profoundly affect the quality of survival . 
current options in the management of clinical stage c prostatic carcinoma . the evaluation of clinical stage c prostatic cancer has been enhanced by advances in staging modalities over the past 15 years . better staging of the local lesion is possible with transrectal ultrasound-guided multiple biopsies of the prostate and its vicinity . biopsies of suspect pelvic lymph nodes guided by ct ( or lymphangiography ) may obviate pelvic lymphadenectomy , particularly in patients with high-grade stage c lesions . advances in the understanding of serum markers have supplemented other staging information . no single therapeutic modality is appropriate for all cases of clinical stage c cancer . in c1 lesions , radical prostatectomy with adjunctive radiation or hormonal therapy seems to produce the best 5 - and 10-year survival rates . external-beam radiation alone , or in combination with interstitial radiation , may have equivalent success . in clinical stage c2 disease , external-beam radiotherapy seems at present to be the best therapeutic modality . interstitial radiation as a sole method of management in stage c disease carries a high local recurrence rate and a significant risk of metastatic progression . transurethral prostatectomy and hormonal treatment continue to have a place in the management of selected poor-risk patients . the current results with surgery or radiation therapy alone are less than ideal . it is recommended that aggressive combination treatment be compared with monotherapy in randomized clinical trials monitored jointly by radiation and urologic oncologists . 
new concepts in the treatment of stage d1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate . stage d1 disease will be encountered in 20 per cent of patients by those who treat prostate cancer . there is marked heterogeneity among cancers discovered at this stage , with 5-year disease-free survival rates ranging from 0 to 95 per cent . generally , when prostate cancer has escaped the confines of the gland , metastasis occurs , and widespread systemic disease prevails . any significant chance for long-term cure will then depend on systemic therapy . from maturing data in retrospective reviews , preliminary data from prospective trials , and recent well-conducted animal studies , chemotherapy and hormonal deprivation appear most effective when tumor volumes are the smallest . this evidence supports the removal of all cancer possible and the early institution of systemic treatment . caution must be exercised in extrapolating the aforementioned evidence to include cases of more extensive prostate cancer ( i.e. , patients with bulky pelvic or retroperitoneal disease , distant metastasis , or significant elevation of serum markers ) . it is doubtful that " debulking " with removal of the prostate and lymph nodes will provide any justifiable advantages in these patients . whether removal of the prostate affords any local palliative benefit is an issue for debate . certainly , the primary tumor , if left untreated , will progress locally and cause symptoms necessitating further procedures in more than half these patients , whereas the incidence of local recurrence and the adverse effects of these recurrences in patients with d1 disease after radical prostatectomy and adjuvant therapy is less than 10 per cent . surgical refinements coupled with acceptably low morbidity now associated with radical prostatectomy have led some authors to endorse the palliative benefits of removing the primary tumor in selected patients . the purpose of this article is not to endorse or disparage the aggressive treatment of patients with stage d1 prostate cancer . the evidence suggests that if long-term survival is the endpoint used to compare treatment groups , then to date no treatment option offers significant advantages . on the contrary , if progression rates or disease-free survival are compared , then cytoreductive surgery and early systemic adjuvant treatment ( testosterone deprivation or chemotherapy ) provides significant advantages for selected patients with stage d1 disease . although ploidy analysis , receptor mapping , and oncogene assays are promising , today , there is no practical way to identify patients who will benefit most from multimodality treatment approaches . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
flow cytometry in carcinoma of the prostate . flow cytometry is a quantitative cytologic technique with demonstrated utility in the assessment of prostate cancer as well as other tumors . the authors summarize current data on its use in disease detection and diagnosis , prognostic evaluation , and monitoring of response to therapy . they also project future developments . 
current management of varicoceles . in spite of all that has been written about the varicocele , it is still not clear who will benefit from occlusion of the spermatic vein or why improvement in semen takes place in some patients but not in others . because fertility is usually assessed in the framework of a couple who are trying to establish a pregnancy , it is important to evaluate both partners before making any recommendations regarding therapy . if the man is found to have a varicocele and semen analyses that indicate deficits in either the quantity or quality of the sperm , surgical ligation or transvenous occlusion should be considered as one appropriate form of therapy . varicocele ligation and embolotherapy both can be performed as an outpatient procedure with minimal morbidity and equal effectiveness regarding pregnancy outcome . the cost , if the procedures are done in an outpatient facility , should be approximately equal . the obvious benefits of the percutaneous technique are a slightly lower recurrence rate and a more rapid return to full physical activity . the surgical procedure described by marmar and associates appears to have a similar rate of recurrence and short postoperative period of recovery . greater experience by more urologists using this technique needs to be gained to compare it adequately with the other methods described . varicocele ligation by the inguinal or retroperitoneal routes is familiar to most urologists and does not require the operating microscope or other special instruments . with greater understanding of the venous anatomy and with careful dissection , the persistence and recurrence rate can be acceptably low and the postoperative recovery relatively rapid and smooth . 
low incidence of asymptomatic brain metastases in patients with renal cell carcinoma . brain metastases from renal cell carcinoma are uncommon . the present study was undertaken to determine the value of routine computerized tomographic ( ct ) scanning of the brain in patients with renal cell carcinoma . a review of 106 patients with renal cell carcinoma who had undergone ct scan of the brain revealed brain metastases in only 13.2 percent . brain metastases were accompanied by central nervous system ( cns ) symptoms in 78.6 percent of patients , with headaches constituting the most common presenting symptom ( 64.3 % ) . brain metastases were detected in only 3.3 percent of patients who had no cns symptoms at the time of evaluation . it is concluded that ct scanning of the brain should be performed routinely only for those patients who report cns symptoms at the time of evaluation . 
is urethral sparing at cystectomy a safe procedure ? urethrectomy is performed with cystectomy when the neoplasm is multifocal , at the bladder neck , or associated with carcinoma in situ ( cis ) . the records of the most recent 20 patients treated by radical cystectomy at our institution were reviewed . in 50 percent of the cases , the extent of disease within the bladder was found to have been underestimated to the point that a urethral sparing operation ( i.e. , to maintain urinary continence with an intestinal segment and an intact urethra ) might have been dangerous . 
neodymium : yag laser treatment of bladder hemangiomas . we present 3 cases of bladder hemangiomas , one single and two multiple , with a long-term history of recurrent hematuria , treated with endoscopic neodymium : yag ( yttrium , aluminum , garnet ) laser photocoagulation , and obtaining good results . 
allopurinol and thiazide effects on new urinary stone formed after discontinued therapy in patients with urinary stones . we treated 87 patients with calcium-containing urinary stones with either allopurinol alone ( 44 patients ) or in combination with thiazide ( 43 patients ) and studied new stone formation before , during , and after the discontinuation of the drug therapy . the number of stones formed were 1.18 , 0.24 , and 0.13 before , during , and after discontinuation of the drug therapy , respectively , in the patients treated with allopurinol alone and 1.32 , 0.20 , and 0.09 in those treated in combination with thiazide . no differences were observed in these values and the duration of each observation period between the two groups . decreases in the incidence of stone formation even after interruption of drug therapy suggested that recurrence-preventive effects observed following administration of these drugs include the effects of medical guidance . however , allopurinol therapy was effective in preventing recurrence in patients with hyperuricosuria . 
sex reversal syndrome ( xx male ) . men who appear normal and live a normal life , may have a 46 , xx karyotype and present with the typical features of infertility and end organ ( testicular ) failure . they are azoospermic and their small testicles show specific patterns on light and electron microscopy . recent advances in genetics ( 1 ) favor the " x-y interchange " theory to explain this phenomenon ; ( 2 ) hypothesize about the roles of the h-y antigen and testis determining factor ( tdf ) in determining " maleness " ; and ( 3 ) allow mapping of the relative positions of h-y and tdf loci on the y chromosome . 
renal abscess in children . three cases of renal abscesses in children are described to illustrate the variable presenting features . an additional 23 pediatric cases , reported over the past ten years , were reviewed for clinical features and therapy . fever , loin pain , and leukocytosis were common presenting features , but less than half of all abscesses were associated with either an abnormal urinalysis or a positive urine culture . the presenting features were sometimes confused with appendicitis , peritonitis , or a wilms tumor . an organism was identified in 17 cases -- escherichia coli in 9 children and staphylococcus aureus in 8 children . the majority of e. coli infections occurred in girls and the majority of s. aureus infections occurred in boys . reflux was documented in 5 patients , and 2 children had a possible extrarenal source of infection . antibiotics alone produced a cure in 10 children ( 38 % ) , but 16 children ( 62 % ) required a surgical procedure . 
treatment of primary nocturnal enuresis by oral androgen mesterolone . a clinical and cystometric study . a double-blind clinical study of 30 boys , six to ten years of age , with primary nocturnal enuresis was undertaken to assess the role of androgens in treating enuresis . the oral synthetic androgen mesterolone was selected because of its minimal potential toxic effects . twenty boys were treated with mesterolone and 10 received placebo . fourteen boys ( 70 % ) became dry during treatment ( 20 mg daily for 14 days ) , and 5 ( 25 % ) remained dry for a follow-up period of four months . increased cystometric bladder capacity and disappearance of uninhibited detrusor contractions were noticed in a significant number of cases after treatment . no side effects were recorded . mesterolone has probably modulated the autonomic innervation of the vesical musculature with correction of the defective neural mechanism which is believed to be implicated in the pathogenesis of nocturnal enuresis . 
inverted papilloma of renal pelvis : flexible ureteroscopic diagnosis and treatment . a case is reported of inverted papilloma of the renal pelvis in a patient with previous transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . the renal pelvic lesion was diagnosed and treated with a flexible ureteropyeloscope . although nephroureterectomy was avoided , the patient must be carefully followed endoscopically and radiographically for recurrence of lesions throughout the urinary tract . this case represents the first report of the endoscopic diagnosis and treatment of an inverted papilloma of the renal pelvis . it demonstrates the vast potential for endoscopic diagnosis , treatment , and surveillance throughout the urinary tract . 
improved early detection of recurrence in prostatic carcinoma following hormonal therapy . combined use of palpation and fine needle aspiration cytology . fifty-nine hormonally treated prostatic carcinoma patients were prospectively followed by rectal examination and fine needle aspiration cytology at six-month intervals for periods ranging from six to one hundred twenty months ( median follow-up 48 mos ) . the cytologic findings and clinical impressions were divided into four or five categories , respectively , ranging from benign to clearly malignant . cytologic material and clinical descriptions suitable for evaluation were available for 306 follow-up examinations . of these , 209 were cytologically benign ( including 191 without and 18 with clinical evidence of malignancy ) . the remaining 97 examinations showed cytologic evidence of malignancy of which 50 were clinically apparent ( 51.5 % ) . while the correlation of clinical and cytologic findings was good ( 91.4 % ) in cases with no evidence of disease activity , our findings indicate that many recurrences which are occult to clinical examination may be detected by cytologic examination . 
acute aluminum toxicity after continuous intravesical alum irrigation for hemorrhagic cystitis . an encephalopathy and cardiomyopathy developed in a seventeen-year-old girl with chemotherapy-induced renal failure while receiving an intravesical aluminum infusion for hemorrhagic cystitis . premortem serum and postmortem tissue aluminum levels were markedly elevated . it is likely that her inability to excrete absorbed aluminum contributed to her death . aluminum infusions should be used with caution in patients with renal failure . 
single polypoid cystitis cystica and glandularis presenting as benign bladder tumor . a case report of a ten-year-old boy with a benign polypoid bladder tumor is presented . the rarity of benign or malignant bladder tumors in children is reviewed , as well as the possible etiology of this unique lesion . 
transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis after m-vac ( methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin , and cisplatin ) chemotherapy . the m-vac ( methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin , and cisplatin ) regimen has been utilized at our two institutions to treat 17 patients with advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . we report 2 cases of carcinomatous meningitis resulting from metastatic transitional cell carcinoma which occurred in patients treated with m-vac . review of the literature suggests that our experience with central nervous system metastases is not unique , and that treatment of advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder with m-vac may enhance the incidence of meningeal metastases . carcinomatous meningitis , although rare , is a rapidly fatal manifestation of metastatic transitional cell carcinoma if left untreated . however , prompt diagnosis and early aggressive therapy may result in palliation and stabilization of neurologic status . we review the pathophysiology , diagnosis , and treatment of transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis . 
desmopressin for diabetes insipidus , hemostatic disorders and enuresis . arginine vasopressin preparations have been used in the treatment of diabetes insipidus for many years . compared with older antidiuretic agents , the synthetic analog desmopressin is more potent , longer acting and easier to use . it is available for intravenous , subcutaneous and intranasal administration . desmopressin may be useful in the treatment of hemostatic disorders such as von willebrand 's disease and hemophilia a. it has also been used for nocturnal enuresis . the vasopressor effects of arginine vasopressin preparations have been exploited for use as a temporizing measure in controlling acute gastrointestinal bleeding . side effects such as hyponatremia and water intoxication are uncommon when these drugs are used with proper precautions . 
merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testis . tumor metastases to the testes are rare and are usually found incidentally at autopsy or after orchiectomy for prostatic carcinoma . it is even more unusual for testicular metastases to be clinically detected or symptomatic . the authors report two cases of clinically detected testicular metastases from merkel cell carcinoma of the skin . merkel cell carcinoma metastatic to the testes has not been reported previously . the two tumors , to some degree , resembled testicular lymphomas and the interstitial type of seminoma . 
confronting cisternae presenting as intracytoplasmic inclusions in monocytes . small gray-blue intracytoplasmic inclusions were noted in the peripheral monocytes and neutrophils from a patient with renal failure . ultrastructural analysis revealed confronting cisternae within the cytoplasm . the authors submit a case report to introduce a previously undescribed morphologic feature of leukocytes that may be mistaken at the light microscopic level for dohle bodies or other inclusions . 
serum amylase in patients with renal insufficiency and renal failure . results vary with regard to the upper limits of serum amylase seen in patients with renal failure , and very little has been reported with patients with renal insufficiency not yet requiring dialysis . to determine the level of serum amylase elevation in renal insufficiency and renal failure , we determined serum amylase values in 128 subjects with creatinine clearances less than 90 ml/min . serum amylase remained in the normal range when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min , and did not become elevated until creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min . the highest serum amylase recorded in the absence of acute pancreatitis was 503 iu/l ( normal , less than 128 iu/l ) . serum lipase and trypsin values paralleled those for serum amylase ; values remained normal when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min , and were normal or elevated when creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min . these results indicate that elevations of serum amylase ( i.e. , amylase greater than 128 but less than 500 iu/l ) in asymptomatic patients with impaired renal function are not evident until creatinine clearances fall below 50 ml/min , and probably do not represent acute pancreatitis . 
geriatric pharmacokinetics and the kidney . the general population is aging and , as a result , drugs are increasingly prescribed for a variety of medical conditions in a group of patients with multiple physiologic and pharmacokinetic abnormalities . the present report summarizes principles of prescribing for the elderly , especially those related to the decline in renal function that frequently occurs . 
nutritional causes of renal impairment in old age . the occurrence of renal insufficiency tends to increase in late adulthood . this common complication of old age is associated with increased physical dependency , morbidity , and mortality , and a lowered quality of life . in this review , the authors will develop the thesis that dietary practices during early and middle adulthood importantly influence the risk of renal insufficiency in the elderly . 
renal disease in the elderly : the role of the renal biopsy . the causes of renal disease in the young and the elderly vary in their frequency . there are many indications for renal biopsy in older patients , with the nephrotic syndrome ( ns ) being the most common , followed by acute renal failure . biopsy does not carry a greater risk for older patients , but there is a greater risk of complications when there is coexistent renal insufficiency . interpretation of the renal biopsy in elderly patients may be more complex because of changes associated with aging or intercurrent disease -- arteriolar sclerosis and global sclerosis . a prospective study is needed to determine the exact prevalence of renal insufficiency , ns , and other renal diseases in noninstitutionalized elderly individuals and to determine the role of renal biopsy in making these determinations . 
treatment of glomerulonephritis in the elderly . glomerular disease was assessed in persons who had renal biopsies and who were age 60 years and older in retrospective reviews of referral-based cohorts in europe , the united states , and japan . from a cumulative total of 514 patients reported from five centers , 337 ( 66 % ) patients had primary glomerular diseases and 177 ( 34 % ) had various secondary renal diseases . amyloidosis was the largest histopathologic group among the secondary disorders . idiopathic membranous nephropathy was the most common primary glomerulopathy ( 107/337 [ 32 % ] patients ) and also comprised 46 % of nephrotic patients . in our experience covering two consecutive 13-year periods from 1959 to 1984 , there was an increase both in total number of patients , and in percentage more than 60 years old , with membranous nephropathy in the more recent study period compared with the earlier period reflecting a trend to more biopsy procedures that included older patients . non-immune-mediated rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis ( rpgn ) , thought by some to be more common in older adults , has been shown to represent a crescentic glomerulonephritis associated with systemic necrotizing vasculitis . treatment with corticosteroids had a short-term favorable effect on renal function in this disorder over that achieved in antiglomerular basement membrane-associated or idiopathic rpgn . however , the 5-year patient survival was remarkably lower in older patients irrespective of the disease entity . on the other hand , age was not associated with progressive renal failure in patients with membranous nephropathy . finally , minimal change glomerulopathy accounted for 35 of 204 ( 17 % ) nephrotic subjects , and complete remissions occurred after corticosteroid treatment at the same frequency ( 80 % to 90 % ) observed in younger patients . 
geriatric diabetic nephropathy : an analysis of renal referral in patients age 60 or older . we report a series of 33 consecutive hospitalized geriatric diabetic patients who were referred for evaluation of diabetic nephropathy , defined as proteinuria greater than or equal to 1 g/d ( 1,000 mg/24 h ) or a serum creatinine concentration greater than or equal to 177 mumol/d ( greater than or equal to 2 mg/dl ) . the study population was 60 years old or older ( mean age , 68 + / - 6 years ) , was comprised mainly of women ( 24 of 33 , 72.7 % ) , and was predominantly black ( 25 of 33 , 75.8 % ) . all patients had type ii diabetes . a family history of diabetes in parent or sibling was elicited in 24 ( 72.7 % ) patients . there were eight patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis and 25 with less severe nephropathy ( mean proteinuria , 2.7 g/d [ 2,700 mg/24 h ] ; mean creatinine clearance , 0.57 ml-s [ 34 ml/min ] ) . cardiac disorders were noted in the majority of patients : congestive failure in 20 ( 60.6 % ) , myocardial infarction in eight ( 24.2 % ) , and active angina in five ( 15.2 % ) . other comorbid diseases were present in both hemodialysis patients and the subset of nondialyzed azotemic-proteinuric patients , and consisted of peripheral neuropathy in 31 ( 93.9 % ) , gastroparesis in 16 ( 48.5 % ) , retinopathy in 28 ( 84.8 % ) , and legal blindness in 11 ( 33 % ) . we conclude that geriatric diabetic nephropathy in type ii diabetes is similar in presentation and severity of comorbid extrarenal complications to the syndrome described in younger adults . this inference must be tempered by both the small size and the limitation imposed by the demographics of the study population , which is predominantly composed of black patients receiving treatment at inner city hospitals . 
basic evaluation of female urinary incontinence . urinary incontinence is a common disorder that is frequently underreported because of its social implications . although several types of urinary incontinence are recognized , they can be generally classified as failure of the bladder to store or failure of the urethral mechanism . a systematic approach for the evaluation of incontinence that includes history , physical examination , basic laboratory tests , and often urodynamic evaluation , offers the most comprehensive assessment of the etiology of incontinence . 
genitourinary cancer in the elderly . the subject of genitourinary cancer in the elderly becomes increasingly more important as our population of patients older than 50 years expands . carcinoma of the kidney , bladder , and prostate all have an increasing incidence over the age of 50 and have a predilection for afflicting men more commonly than women . etiologic factors , especially with bladder and kidney carcinomas , are well documented and in some cases preventable . screening the urine for hematuria and careful digital rectal examinations may uncover a higher percentage of these malignancies in earlier , more curable stages . recent advances in the treatment of all of these malignancies have improved survival and quality of life for these patients . 
treatment of renal calculi in the elderly . the management of renal calculi in the geriatric patient population poses some unique problems that include anesthetic risks , underlying medical disease , and general risk/benefit concerns . a variety of relatively noninvasive procedures are available , including extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) and percutaneous nephrostolithotomy ( pcnl ) . a practical management plan is presented that is based primarily on stone size and takes into consideration problems unique to the elderly patient . 
peritoneal dialysis in the geriatric patient . elderly patients on chronic peritoneal dialysis ( cpd ) from two large chronic peritoneal dialysis programs were compared with younger patients in regard to peritonitis rates , catheter problems , hospital days , transfers to other forms of therapy , and mortality . peritonitis rates and organisms were similar in younger and older patients . catheter replacements were less common in the elderly . differences in hospital days were attributable to hospitalization for vascular disease . the elderly were more likely to have the first episode of peritonitis , to die and to change dialysis modalities at all times after the first year of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) treatment , although other than increased mortality , differences between the two groups were small . cpd appears to be an acceptable form of renal replacement therapy in the elderly . 
dialysis considerations in the elderly patient . this brief review discusses several aspects of dialytic care pertinent to the older dialysis patient . heart disease , nutrition , and the quality of life for these patients are considered . 
hemodialysis and the elderly patient : potential advantages as to quality of life , urea generation , serum creatinine , and less interdialytic weight gain . a total of 204 patients treated by maintenance hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) were studied to ascertain how advancing age influences adaptation to uremia therapy . no difference in karnofsky score was noted among patients over 70 years of age and two groups of patients , 16 to 59 , and 60 to 69 years of age , respectively . in a subset of 33 hemodialysis patients studied midweek , it was noted that increasing age is associated with a lower serum creatinine concentration , lower interdialytic weight gain , and a lower urea generation rate . these three findings contribute to a relative ease in treating older uremia patients with hemodialysis or capd , as they tend to be stable and compliant relative to younger patients . 
the elderly on dialysis : some considerations in compliance . compliance with scheduled treatments , dietary and fluid restrictions , and multiple medications is an important component in the care and well-being of end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) patients . given the rigorus and complex demands of dialysis , it is important to examine the issue of compliance , focusing on a large and ever-increasing segment of our patient population , the elderly . the esrd literature reflects efforts to define and measure levels of compliance , identify factors that influence and predict compliance , and develop intervention strategies to improve adherence to treatment regimens . while limited attention has been focused specifically on the elderly , there are studies suggesting that age may be a factor associated with improved adherence and that social support may be a significant contributor to compliance in this patient group . in an effort to examine the current status and needs of the dialysis elderly , research is in progress at chromalloy american kidney center , washington university , which replicates a study of 5 years ago . eighty-four patients age 60 and over , on dialysis for a minimum of 6 months , were identified . sociodemographic , treatment , compliance , and functional capacity data were collected ; additional mental and psychological testing was completed on patients willing and able to participate . preliminary data suggest the current elderly population is larger and significantly older than that of 5 years ago . other sociodemographic data indicate the population is increasingly female , black , and more socioeconomically disadvantaged . in regard to compliance , the vast majority of elderly demonstrate good compliance as measured by serum potassium , fair to good compliance with phosphorus , and fair to poor compliance with fluid restrictions . 
strategies for enhancing compliance in the dialysis elderly . noncompliance must be viewed as a symptom of another problem or problems . treatment plans should be developed based on an individualized assessment of the patient 's physiologic functioning and psychosocial situation . it must be determined whether the patient is intentionally or unintentionally not complying . staff must also be aware of how they impact compliance . while staff have a responsibility to maximize the individual 's efforts to comply , it must be realized that the ultimate decision and responsibility rests with the patient . 
prevention of renal disease and conservation of renal function . in summary , we have reviewed some of the most frequently encountered areas of prevention of renal failure in the elderly . they include obstruction , hypertension , drug interaction , and inappropriate use of drugs and the silent killer of the elderly , renal carcinoma . only by a thorough understanding of the altered physiology of the aging kidney can the physician avoid making the same mistakes when new drugs are developed or new types of diseases are encountered . proper early diagnosis and understanding the guidelines to therapy in these conditions , can save huge human costs in terms of mortality , morbidity , and money . 
ethical issues in geriatric nephrology : overview . developments in medical care over the past five to six decades have provided remarkable life-sustaining technologies ( lst ) that have contributed to prolongation of the life span of patients , as well as to a general increase in health and well-being . end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) treatment is a prototype of these lst treatments and of the issues surrounding provision of chronic/catastrophic care . this remarkable progress has been accompanied by ethical dilemmas that include allocation of scarce resources , and initiation and termination of care with lst . consideration of these ethical dilemmas are especially poignant for the elderly , because they raise " hard choices " and there are no easy answers to these ethical dilemmas . 
ethical and legal issues in geriatric nephrology . ethical and legal issues affecting geriatric nephrology are conditioned more by individuals ' status as elderly , sick people than by the distinctive characteristics of kidney disease or failure . key ethical issues are the obligation to respect persons , in particular by recognizing competent persons ' autonomy of medical choice and affording due protection to dependent or vulnerable individuals , by beneficence or doing good , and by acting with justice , treating like cases alike and avoiding unjust discrimination . the law reinforces ethical obligations through such legal concepts as informed consent and the duty to maintain appropriate confidentiality , which have special applications concerning medication and management of the elderly . additional legal issues concern advanced care directives and terminal care decisions . 
rationing of health care and the end-stage renal disease program . the potential impact of rationing health care on the end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) program is considered . the possible implications of the recommendations emanating from the study being conducted by the institute of medicine of the national academy of sciences are also mentioned . particular emphasis is given to the potential consequences of rationing health care on the elderly and on certain socioeconomic groups with esrd . 
effects of calcium antagonists on renal hemodynamics . recent attention has been focused on the effects of calcium antagonists on renal function . when administered in vitro to the isolated perfused kidney , calcium antagonists exhibit consistent actions permitting characterization of actions permitting characterization of their renal effects . calcium antagonists do not affect the vasodilated isolated perfused kidney , but they do markedly alter the response of the kidney to vasoconstrictor agents . in the presence of norepinephrine , calcium antagonists markedly augment the glomerular filtration rate but produce only a modest improvement in renal perfusion . studies using the isolated perfused hydronephrotic rat kidney model , which permits direct visualization of afferent and efferent arterioles , have demonstrated that the augmentation of the glomerular filtration rate is attributable to a preferential vasodilation of preglomerular vessels . although the clinical implications of such observations are not fully delineated , preliminary studies in experimental animal models indicate that calcium antagonists might exert salutary effects on renal function in clinical settings characterized by an acute impairment of renal hemodynamics . it is apparent , however , that the renal hemodynamic effects of calcium antagonists commend their use in the management of essential hypertension . 
calcium channel blockers versus angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors : renal effects . angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers are two classes of antihypertensive agents with novel effects on renal function . in both experimental and clinical studies , calcium channel blockers tend to increase renal blood flow , glomerular filtration rate , and urinary sodium excretion in essential hypertension . ace inhibitors have similar effects on renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate in essential hypertension , but they tend to cause sodium retention . ace inhibitors can cause marked reductions in glomerular filtration rate in renovascular hypertension , making them a problematic choice for the treatment of this form of hypertension . in chronic , progressive renal diseases , ace inhibitors have been shown to decrease protein excretion and morphologic evidence of glomerulosclerosis . the relationship of the decrease in protein excretion to the progression of renal disease has not yet been established . 
effect of dietary protein restriction on functional renal reserve in diabetic nephropathy . purpose , patients , and methods : functional renal reserve in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , as determined by the glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) response test , is a measure of the capacity of the kidney to increase glomerular filtration in response to the stimulus of a protein meal or amino acid infusion . this 12-month study evaluated the changes in functional renal reserve in eight patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with nephropathy ( micro-albuminuria [ greater than or equal to 30 micrograms/minute ] ) who chronically decreased their dietary protein intake to a mean of 0.6 g/kg/day ( group 1 ) compared with a group of similar patients ( n = 7 ) who maintained their unusual dietary protein intake ( 1.0 g/kg/day , group 2 ) . patients were evaluated and measurements taken at 3 - , 6 - , and 12-month intervals . absolute and percent increases in gfr were calculated from three averaged 1-hour measurements after an 80-g protein test meal . results : although the initial absolute mean rise ( 14 + / - 12 versus 18 + / - 13 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 ) in gfr and maximal percent rise ( 16 % + / - 16 % versus 32 % + / - 27 % ) after the meal did not differ significantly between the two groups , at 12 months , values in the lower protein group increased ( 27.8 + / - 9.5 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 and 54.7 % + / - 48.8 % ) , whereas those in the normal protein intake group declined significantly ( 3.7 + / - 3.6 ml/min-ute/1 .73 m2 and 6.5 % + / - 6.5 % ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . both urine urea and microalbuminuria decreased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) in the low protein group . unstimulated gfr at the end of 12 months was significantly less ( p less than 0.05 ) in group 2 ( 47 + / - 2 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 ) than in group 1 ( 71 + / - 21 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 ) . the rate of decline in gfr was significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) in the normal protein intake group than in the low protein intake group ( 0.68 + / - 0.4 versus 0.28 + / - 0.15 ml/minute/1 .73 m2/month ) . conclusions : this study indicates that sustained dietary protein restriction can help to preserve renal function , decrease albuminuria , and lower the baseline gfr while maintaining functional renal reserve in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . 
treatment of the anemia of chronic renal failure with subcutaneous recombinant human erythropoietin . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of recombinant human erythropoietin ( rhuepo ) given subcutaneously three times/week in patients with chronic renal failure and anemia ( predialysis ) . patients and methods : eleven patients with predialysis chronic renal failure participated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled study of subcutaneously administered erythropoietin . for 12 weeks , patients received either rhuepo 100 mu/kg body weight three times/week subcutananeously or a placebo . after 12 weeks of placebo , patients now also received rhuepo in a dose up to 150 mu/kg three times/week until target hematocrit was achieved . throughout the study , blood pressure was monitored closely and blood work was obtained regularly for hemoglobin , hematocrit , reticulocyte count , and iron profile determinations . results : at 12 weeks , the hematocrit of the treated group had risen from 29 % + / - 2 % to 35 % + / - 2 % ( p less than 0.001 ) . the placebo group baseline hematocrit was 28 % + / - 2 % and at 12 weeks 26 % + / - 2 % after 12 weeks of rhuepo therapy , the hematocrit of the prior placebo group was 32 % + / - 2 % ( p less than 0.001 versus baseline ) . no significant change in biochemical parameters was noted . mean blood pressure values were comparable before and after treatment . all protein ultimately required iron supplementation . in two patients , the rate of progression of renal failure appeared to increase as their hematocrit rose and rhuepo was discontinued . conclusions : it is concluded that rhuepo given subcutaneously is an effective and safe therapy for patients with chronic renal failure who are anemic and who are not receiving dialysis . 
oral estrogens decrease bleeding time and improve clinical bleeding in patients with renal failure . purpose : a prolonged bleeding time is associated with platelet dysfunction and clinical bleeding in patients with renal failure . parenteral estrogens have been shown to shorten the prolonged bleeding time in patients with chronic renal failure , although the mechanism of action is unknown . we conducted a study to evaluate the efficacy of oral conjugated estrogens in this setting . patients and methods : four patients with renal failure , prolonged bleeding time , and clinical bleeding were given 50 mg of conjugated estrogen ( premarin ) daily . results : bleeding time normalized in two cases and was reduced to less than 50 % of the pretreatment value in one of the remaining two cases . bleeding stopped in all patients within two days . ten dialysis patients with prolonged bleeding time were randomized to a course of 50 mg of premarin daily or placebo . the bleeding time in all five patients in the premarin group normalized or decreased to below 50 % of the pretreatment value after 7.0 + / - 4.2 days of therapy . the bleeding time did not normalize in the five patients treated with placebo . no side effects attributable to therapy were reported . conclusion : we conclude that orally administered conjugated estrogens effectively improve the bleeding tendency in patients with chronic renal failure . 
the effect of large uterine fibroids on urinary bladder function and symptoms . fourteen patients with large uterine fibroids and urinary symptoms were treated with monthly injections of [ d-trp6 ] - luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone microcapsules . the average uterine size before treatment was 728 ml ; it dropped to 323 ml ( a drop of 55 % ) after treatment . urinary symptoms of diurnal frequency disappeared in 11 of 12 patients ( p less than 0.005 ) after the reduction of uterine size . urgency decreased in 11 of 13 ( p less than 0.005 ) and nocturia in eight of 10 ( p less than 0.02 ) . no differences were found before and after treatment in the symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence in the cystometric and urethral pressure profile measurements . urinary symptoms of frequency , urgency , and nocturia may be caused by the direct pressure exerted on the bladder by the enlarged uterus . symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence deserve a more specific treatment as they are not related to uterine size . 
expression of the human nephron differentiation molecules in renal cell carcinomas . the authors tested frozen sections from 28 renal cell carcinomas ( rcc ) -- 21 clear , 1 eosinophilic , 4 basophilic , and 2 spindle-shaped cell type -- with monoclonal antibodies ( mab ) reacting against cytokeratin , vimentin , cd24 , calla/cd10 , villin , cd26 , and hla class i and class ii molecules . these molecules are markers of specific segments of the mature kidney , and their loss or acquisition reflects the different steps of human nephrogenesis . ki67 mab was used to evaluate cell-proliferating activity . all rcc cases expressed cytokeratin . coexpression of vimentin was observed in 21 of 28 cases . whether of clear or chromophilic type , all tumoral cells strongly expressed cd24 molecule , present on primitive blastema cells . all clear-type rccs expressed calla/cd10 and 60 % were also villin positive ; some were faintly positive for cd26 . calla , villin , and cd26 were not detected in basophilic cell type . hla class i molecules were variably expressed in almost all cases , but hla class ii were never detected on tumoral cells . except for the spindle-shaped population , cell-proliferating activity was low . these results favor the hypothesis that rccs derive from cells that have ' recovered ' the different options of metanephric differentiation . clear cells show evidence of maturation toward proximal type , while basophilic cells do not . it would be of interest to evaluate the usefulness of serum measurements of villin and/or calla as markers in clear cell-type rcc . 
results of surgical treatment for hyperparathyroidism associated with renal disease . recently , the role and timing of surgery for treating secondary and tertiary hyperparathyroidism ( hpt ) have been questioned . in order to delineate the indications for surgery in these patients , a retrospective analysis of 53 consecutive patients treated with parathyroidectomy was conducted . subtotal thyroidectomy was done in 37 of 45 patients undergoing their initial operations for hpt . eight additional patients were referred after failed operations . of 33 patients with preoperative bone pain , 70 % improved . joint pain improved in 87 % of 30 patients , pruritus improved in 81 % of 27 patients , and preoperative malaise improved in 73 % of 33 patients after parathyroidectomy . abdominal pain and irritated eyes were unlikely to improve . the best predictors of a successful outcome were a markedly elevated preoperative immunoreactive parathyroid hormone ( mid-region ) level and an elevated alkaline phosphatase level . there were no perioperative deaths . one patient ( 1.6 % ) had a recurrent laryngeal nerve injury , and one patient required reoperation for a neck hematoma . no patient had permanent hypoparathyroidism , but transient hypocalcemia ( less than 7 mg/dl ) occurred in 22 % . postoperative hypocalcemia correlated with elevated preoperative alkaline phosphatase levels ( r2 = 0.247 ) . 
urgent management of a giant scrotal hernia . an unusual case of giant scrotal hernia is presented . hernias of this magnitude are extremely rare , even in underdeveloped countries , and their repair is challenging to the surgeon and stressful to the patient . only a few case reports on the use of pneumoperitoneum prior to herniorrhaphy have been published ; however , our patient 's accompanying complications of diabetes mellitus and gastrointestinal symptoms precluded the use of pneumoperitoneum . the emergency management , including the expansion of the abdominal cavity with prosthesis , the ensuing postoperative complications , and the patient outcome , are discussed . 
clinical course of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-associated glomerulonephritis and systemic vasculitis . the glomerular disease collaborative network objectives : to determine the spectrum of clinical manifestations in patients with anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody ( anca ) - associated glomerulonephritis ; to determine renal and patient survival in these patients ; to compare survival among patients treated with corticosteroids alone , corticosteroids plus intravenous cyclophosphamide or corticosteroids plus oral cyclophosphamide ; and to assess the correlation of disease manifestations and treatment response with anca subtypes and serial autoantibody titers . design : inception cohort study ; mean follow-up of 24 months . setting : collaborative network of 120 university and private practice nephrologists ( the glomerular disease collaborative network ) . participants : seventy patients with anca and pauci-immune necrotizing and crescentic glomerulonephritis , of whom 59 were treated with either corticosteroids alone ( 14 patients ) , corticosteroids plus oral cyclophosphamide ( 30 patients ) , or corticosteroids plus intravenous cyclophosphamide ( 15 patients ) . main results : of the 70 patients , 18 had renal-limited disease ( idiopathic crescentic glomerulonephritis ) ; 15 , nonpulmonary extrarenal disease consistent with polyarteritis nodosa ; and 37 , pulmonary disease consistent with wegener granulomatosis or alveolar capillaritis . there were overlapping manifestations of disease between patients with autoantibodies producing a cytoplasmic pattern and patients with autoantibodies producing a perinuclear pattern ; however , the perinuclear pattern occurred more frequently in patients with renal-limited disease . renal and patient survival was 75 % at 24 months , and no difference in survival was seen between patients with renal-limited disease and those with systemic disease . no differences in survival were seen between patients treated with oral cyclophosphamide and those treated with intravenous cyclophosphamide ; however , the comparative data from patients treated with corticosteroids alone were inconclusive . in general , autoantibody titers correlated with response to treatment and disease activity , but there were exceptions . conclusions : patients with anca have various forms of necrotizing vascular inflammation , ranging from renal-limited disease to widespread systemic vasculitis , including polyarteritis nodosa and wegener granulomatosis . oral corticosteroids with either oral or intravenous cyclophosphamide appear to be equally effective therapy for anca-associated glomerulonephritis . 
pharmacokinetics of enoxacin and its oxometabolite following intravenous administration to patients with different degrees of renal impairment . enoxacin is a fluorinated quinolone with potential clinical use in the treatment of serious infections . twenty-three patients ( age , 19 to 87 years ) with different degrees of renal function , including a group undergoing chronic hemodialysis , received enoxacin ( 400 mg ) by intravenous infusion ( 1 h ) . blood samples were collected before infusion ; at the end of infusion ; and at 5 , 10 , 20 , 30 , 45 , 60 , 90 , and 120 min and 3 , 4 , 6 , 12 , 18 , 24 , 48 , and 72 h after infusion . enoxacin and oxoenoxacin concentrations were measured by high-pressure liquid chromatography . pharmacokinetic parameters ( mean + / - standard deviation ) were calculated by using a noncompartmental pk model according to creatinine clearances ( in milliliters per minute ) . total clearance of enoxacin decreased from 4.95 + / - 1.16 ml/min per kg in the group with normal creatinine clearance to 0.76 + / - 0.21 ml/min per kg in the patients with severe renal failure ( creatinine clearance , less than 15 ml/min ) , whereas the elimination half-life increased from 4.5 + / - 1.0 to 20 + / - 5 h , respectively . the elimination of oxoenoxacin ( the main metabolite of enoxacin ) in urine was markedly decreased when creatinine clearance was less than 15 ml/min . hemodialysis removed an insignificant amount of enoxacin and oxoenoxacin . these data indicate that as creatinine clearance falls below 30 ml/min , the daily enoxacin dose should be reduced by half . during prolonged administration of enoxacin to patients with creatinine clearances of less than 30 ml/min , the accumulation of oxoenoxacin might lead to unexpected side effects . 
how curable is relapsed wilms ' tumour ? the united kingdom children 's cancer study group . three hundred and eighty one children with wilms ' tumour were treated on the united kingdom children 's cancer study group wt1 study ( 1980/6 ) . seventy one patients relapsed during or after treatment , which included surgery and chemotherapy , with irradiation depending on stage and histology . despite treatment with various combinations of chemotherapy , surgery , and radiotherapy there were only 17 survivors . for unfavourable histology , any stage , only two of 20 survive . we conclude that , after relapse , even for patients who have had localised disease and favourable histology , the ' salvage ' rate is little more than 50 % and for all others the likelihood of cure is very small . three of 41 children who relapsed less than 12 months from diagnosis survive , compared with 14 of 30 who relapsed later . it is essential that even with this ' good prognosis ' tumour initial treatment is optimal and given by centres experienced in management of children 's cancer . furthermore , there is a clear need for additional effective chemotherapeutic agents for relapsed patients . 
spontaneous resolution of congenital nephrotic syndrome in a neonate an infant with congenital nephrotic syndrome recovered spontaneously and completely by the age of 11 days and had remained well at the age of 1 year . this reinforces the view that reversible congenital nephrotic syndrome does occur and that it is not a single disease with a universally dismal prognosis . 
ionized calcium , parathormone , and mortality in critically ill surgical patients . a prospective study measured ionized calcium and parathormone sequentially at 48 - to 72-hour intervals in 25 surgical intensive care unit patients . twelve patients ( 48 % ) died at mean day 40 and median day 26 . levels of ionized calcium , parathormone , blood urea nitrogen , creatinine , albumin , magnesium , and phosphate for patients who lived were compared with levels for patients who died . the incidence of hypotension , renal failure ( creatinine greater than or equal to 3.0 ) , and bacteremia , as well as the amount of red cell , crystalloid , and colloid administration for the two groups was compared . hypotension , bacteremia , red cells , crystalloid , and colloid were no different . on days 1 and 2 ionized calcium levels were significantly lower and parathormone levels significantly higher in nonsurviving patients ; this difference persisted through days 3 and 4 . blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels increased early in nonsurviving patients but renal failure , which occurred in nine nonsurviving patients , did not develop until mean day 14 , median day 18 . the phosphate level was slightly higher but still within normal range in nonsurviving patients . by days 5 and 6 ionized calcium and parathormone levels were no different in nonsurviving patients , despite there being no improvement in renal function . magnesium and albumin levels were no different between groups . ionized calcium levels are lower and parathormone levels higher early in nonsurviving patients . this difference is not readily explained by associated clinical conditions , including renal dysfunction . although etiology remains unclear , low ionized calcium and elevated parathormone are early predictors of mortality in critically ill surgical patients . 
the association of blood pressure levels and change in renal function in hypertensive and nonhypertensive subjects . we compared the changes in serum creatinine levels over time after a mean follow-up of 9.8 years in essential hypertensive ( eh , n = 56 ) and control ( n = 59 ) male veteran subjects . all subjects had normal serum creatinine levels ( 62 to 124 mumol/l ) and " normal " urinalysis results on entry into the study . subjects with comorbid renal diagnoses and diabetes mellitus were eliminated from the analysis . although not statistically significant , the rate of change in the serum creatinine concentration over time was greater in the eh cohort compared with the control cohort ( 1.08 + / - 4.8 vs 0.027 + / - 3.5 mumol/l per year ) . the difference was especially marked in black eh subjects vs black control subjects ( 1.60 + / - 6.2 mumol/l per year vs -0.21 + / - 3.3 mumol/l per year ) . when age , race , body mass index , and a diagnosis of eh were entered into a logistic regression analysis , eh subjects had a statistically significantly greater rate of decline in renal function than did control subjects ( 1.5 + / - 8.3 mumol/l per year ) . when mean time-averaged systolic blood pressure for each subject was also included in the logistic regression analysis , only systolic time-averaged blood pressure was statistically significant ( 0.063 + / - 0.029 mumol/l per year ) . we conclude that in the absence of clinically detected parenchymal renal disease , eh subjects have a greater rate of decline in renal function than do nonhypertensive subjects . time-averaged blood pressure is predictive of the change in serum creatinine concentration not only in eh subjects but also in nonhypertensive subjects . thus , preservation of renal function may require a blood pressure lower than the currently accepted normotensive range . 
acute renal failure due to ciprofloxacin . acute renal failure developed in three patients within a few days of starting ciprofloxacin hydrochloride therapy . an allergic interstitial nephritis was suggested by fever and eosinophiluria in one patient and by erythema multiforme in another . a kidney biopsy specimen confirmed this diagnosis in one patient . renal function improved shortly after withdrawal of the drug in all three patients . literature survey revealed an additional three patients with a similar complication . allergic manifestations , such as fever or rash , were a feature in most reported cases . in view of this potential complication , renal function should be closely monitored in patients receiving ciprofloxacin therapy , especially if other potentially nephrotoxic drugs are prescribed concomitantly . 
binding of anti-dna antibodies and inhibition of glomerulonephritis in mrl-lpr/lpr mice by heparin . heparin was found to inhibit the dna binding of antibodies eluted from kidneys of both humans and mrl-lpr/lpr mice with systemic lupus erythematosus . treatment of mrl-lpr/lpr mice with low doses of heparin significantly inhibited renal damage . these results suggest that low-dose heparin might be useful in preventing renal damage in patients with lupus nephritis . 
renal disease in chronic arthritis of childhood . a study of urinary n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and beta 2-microglobulin excretion . urinalyses of randomly obtained samples from children with various types of chronic arthritis revealed proteinuria in 2.3 % of patients , hemoglobinuria in 3.5 % , erythrocyturia in 4.1 % , and leukocyturia in 5.3 % ; these frequencies are within the range found by screening school children . however , raised urinary levels of n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and/or beta 2-microglobulin ( both sensitive measures of renal tubular damage ) were found more frequently in children with chronic arthritis than in controls ( p less than 0.0001 ) . abnormalities of either n-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase or beta 2-microglobulin excretion were associated with active arthritis as measured by physician global estimate of disease activity , with a polyarticular onset of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis , and with the use of slow-acting antirheumatic drugs or the concurrent use of more than 1 nonsteroidal antiinflamtory drug . abnormal renal tubular function appears to be common in chronic arthritis of childhood . the long-term consequences of this abnormality remain to be elucidated . 
changes in ventricular fibrillation threshold during the development of perinephritic hypertension . established hypertension is associated with enhanced susceptibility to life-threatening arrhythmias . however , little is known about the effects of the development of hypertension on the electro-physiological properties of the heart . to study this relationship , dogs were chronically instrumented for recording mean arterial pressure and conducting cardiac electrical testing during right ventricular pacing using an intracavitary bipolar catheter . in normotension , ventricular fibrillation threshold was determined under alpha-chloralose anesthesia , after which perinephritic hypertension was induced by wrapping one kidney in silk followed by contralateral nephrectomy . during serial testing of the same animals , ventricular fibrillation threshold was significantly increased early in the development of hypertension ( 2 to 3 weeks after renal wrapping ) , but found to be significantly reduced at 6 to 7 weeks after renal wrapping . the increase in ventricular fibrillation threshold was eliminated by cholinergic blockade . 
effect of captopril on renal function in hypertensive dogs with unilateral renal artery stenosis , studied with radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy . the kidneys of five hypertensive dogs with experimental unilateral renal artery stenosis were examined by 99mtc-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ( dtpa ) and 131i-hippuran radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy at 10 and 40 min ( respectively ) following the administration of intravenous bolus injections of captopril . doses of 0.2 , 0.5 , and 1.0 mg/kg captopril reduced mean arterial pressure by 33 + / - 4 , 31 + / - 7 , and 51 + / - 4 mm hg and increased plasma renin activity by 40.1 + / - 9.8 , 57.6 + / - 3.2 , and 34.4 + / - 15.2 ng a1/ml/h , respectively . the time-activity curves of both 99mtc-dtpa and 131i-hippuran indicated that renal excretory function in the stenotic kidney was compromised with all three doses of captopril . however , if nitroprusside was used to reduce the mean arterial pressure to a level comparable to that with captopril , there was no appreciable increase in plasma renin activity and renal excretory function was only partially affected in the stenotic kidney . one hour after the administration of 0.5 mg/kg captopril , the function of the stenotic kidneys was partially restored and , by two hours , the time-activity curves were comparable to control scans . these data demonstrate a reversible , time-limited suppression of stenotic kidney function by captopril in renovascular hypertension and provide support for the use of captopril in the diagnosis of renovascular hypertension by radionuclide dynamic scintigraphy . 
nonpeptide angiotensin ii receptor antagonists . although the most direct way to interfere with the renin-angiotensin system ( ras ) is at the level of the angiotensin ii ( aii ) receptor , the currently available aii receptor antagonists are peptides still retaining significant agonistic properties with the obvious drawbacks of limited stability and lack of oral activity . we have characterized simple n-benzylimidazoles as weak , but selective aii receptor antagonists with a competitive mode of action . chemical modification of these early leads led to exp6155 and exp6803 , which show approximately 10 - and 100-fold higher affinity . oral activity was obtained for exp7711 , and in particular for exp9654 . this class of compounds displaces 3h-aii from its specific binding sites in various tissues . they competitively antagonize aii-induced responses in various in vitro and in vivo preparations , but do not influence aii-induced responses to kcl , norepinephrine , and vasopressin , nor do they affect converting enzyme or renin . in high renin models of elevated blood pressure , such as the renal hypertensive rat and sodium-depleted dog , these substances produce a sustained decrease in arterial pressure without changing heart rate after intravenous and oral ( exp7711 and exp9654 ) administration . none of these compounds showed agonistic activity in any of the above test systems . in conclusion , the nonpeptide structures described herein are selective and competitive aii receptor antagonists and add another dimension to the arsenal of drugs manipulating the ras . 
effects of felodipine on urinary albumin excretion and metabolic control in hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetics . the effect of a blood pressure reduction by 10 mg extended release felodipine once daily on urinary albumin excretion ( uae ) as well as the possible diabetogenic effect of felodipine was studied . a 2 x 12 week placebo-controlled double-blind crossover study was performed in 12 hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetic ( niddm ) patients without nephropathy on concomitant treatment with beta-blocker and/or a diuretic agent . metabolic control as estimated by fasting plasma glucose , hemoglobin a1c and fasting plasma c-peptide was unaltered after felodipine . blood pressure was significantly reduced by felodipine : systolic 166 + / - 26 mm hg ( placebo ) v 153 + / - 26 mm hg ( felodipine ) ( p less than .05 ) and diastolic 95 + / - 7 mm hg v 90 + / - 8 mm hg ( p less than .05 ) . heart rate was unchanged . there was no correlation between blood pressure and uae , but the relative change in uae expressed as uae placebo/uae felodipine was significantly correlated to the fall in systolic blood pressure ( r = 0.64 , p = .03 ) and mean blood pressure ( r = 0.66 , p = .02 ) . since microalbuminuria predicts proteinuria and reduced survival , early antihypertensive treatment may be beneficial in niddm as it is in iddm . long-term consequences on kidney function and mortality remains , however , to be elucidated . 
normalization of increased sodium sensitivity by maintenance hemodialysis . blood pressure ( bp ) becomes more sodium and body fluid sensitive as renal function deteriorates . thus , hypertension in chronic renal failure is mostly of the sodium sensitive type . we studied whether the increased sodium sensitivity ( ss ) can be restored to normal on the maintenance phase of hemodialysis ( hd ) therapy . body weight ( bw ) and bp ( specifically , mean arterial pressure [ map ] ) were measured after hd and before the next hd , and the body fluid sensitivity ( bfs ) was calculated as the ratio of changes in these factors on both introduction and maintenance phases in hd patients ( n = 56 ) who were not taking any antihypertensive drugs ( bfs = delta map/delta bw ) . in a preliminary study , the amount of interdialytic sodium intake ( qna + ) was measured ( n = 30 ) , and ss was calculated as the ratio of the change in map to qna + ( ss = delta map/qna + ) . interdialytic bw gain ( 3.1 + / - 0.1 kg ) was correlated with the amount of sodium intake ( 136 + / - 17 meq ) , resulting in a positive relationship between bfs and ss ( r = 0.79 , p less than .0001 ) . therefore , bfs was used as an index of ss . as a whole , bfs decreased from the introduction to the maintenance phase ( 6.5 + / - 1.0 to 3.5 + / - 0.6 mm hg/l , p less than .01 ) . this decrease was marked ( 6.2 + / - 1.1 to 2.9 + / - 0.6 mm hg/l , p less than .01 ) in patients ( n = 46 ) whose bp was normalized in the maintenance phase , while not significant ( 7.9 + / - 1.9 to 6.3 + / - 1.3 mm hg/l ) in patients ( n = 10 ) whose bp was still high . 
parathyroid hormone and the vascular response to norepinephrine . norepinephrine blood pressure reactivity is reduced in uremia , an effect attributed to excess parathyroid hormone ( pth ) . most , but not all , animal and human studies support the theory that high pth levels diminish the pressor response to norepinephrine . in hemodialysis patients in whom norepinephrine infusion tests were performed to determine the effect of parathyroidectomy on vascular responsiveness , the vascular response to norepinephrine ( 100 ng/kg/min ) improved significantly ( 11.3 + / - 1.3 mm hg before and 17.5 + / - 2.4 mm hg after parathyroidectomy ; p less than .01 ) . excess parathyroid hormone appears to play an active role in reduced vascular responsiveness to norepinephrine , although the mechanisms of this effect are unknown . 
abnormal diastolic function in patients with type 1 diabetes and early nephropathy . left ventricular diastolic function was assessed by pulsed doppler echocardiography in non-diabetic controls ( n = 11 ) and in patients with type 1 diabetes without microvascular disease ( n = 16 ; diabetic controls ) , with microalbuminuria ( n = 9 ) , or with early persistent proteinuria ( n = 11 ) . the peak filling velocities during the early and atrial phases of left ventricular diastole and their ratio ( e : a ratio ) were measured . all patients with diabetes had a normal serum concentration of creatinine and exercise electrocardiogram . the mean e : a ratio was significantly lower in those with proteinuria than in the diabetic controls because of an increase in peak atrial filling velocity ; most patients with proteinuria had an abnormal e : a ratio of less than 1.0 . multiple regression analysis showed that systolic blood pressure was the major determinant of both the peak filling velocity during the atrial phase of diastole and also left ventricular mass . blood pressures were significantly higher in the proteinuria group than in the diabetic controls . glycaemic control and autonomic function did not influence diastolic filling . the slightly raised blood pressures at the earliest stages of diabetic nephropathy are sufficient to alter left ventricular diastolic compliance -- this may reflect early hypertensive heart disease . these data do not preclude a specific heart muscle disease related to diabetes , but suggest that these slightly raised blood pressures contribute significantly to left ventricular dysfunction in these patients , in whom the risk of cardiovascular disease is already greatly increased . 
sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells of patients with insulin dependent diabetes and nephropathy and their parents objective -- to determine whether there are familial and genetic aspects of sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells in diabetic nephropathy . design -- case-control study . setting -- teaching hospital diabetic clinic . subjects -- 40 patients with insulin dependent diabetes , both of whose parents were alive : 20 with persistent proteinuria and 20 with normal albumin excretion matched for age , duration of diabetes , and body mass index . all 80 parents . main outcome measures -- sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells and arterial blood pressure . results -- sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells was higher in the patients with proteinuria than in the patients with normoalbuminuria ( mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 0.47 ( 0.39 to 0.54 ) v 0.33 ( 0.28 to 0.38 ) mmol/l red cells/h respectively , p = 0.0036 ; mean difference 0.14 ( 0.04 to 0.22 ) ) . the mean countertransport activity for the two parents of each patient was calculated , and from this the mean value for each group of parents was calculated ; the value was higher in the parents of the patients with proteinuria than in the parents of the patients with normoalbuminuria ( 0.40 ( 0.32 to 0.48 ) v 0.30 ( 0.26 to 0.33 ) mmol/l red cells/h respectively , p = 0.016 ; 0.10 ( 0.02 to 0.19 ) ) . twenty-eight of the parents of the patients with proteinuria compared with 12 of the parents of the patients with normoalbuminuria had a countertransport activity that was above the median value in all 80 parents ( p less than 0.001 ) . mean arterial blood pressure in the parents of the patients with proteinuria was related to that of their offspring ( r = 0.46 ; p less than 0.01 ) . there was a positive correlation between the sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells in the parents and their offspring when all parents and patients were considered ( r = 0.37 ; p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions -- increased sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells in the parents of diabetic patients with nephropathy provides further evidence that familial , and possibly genetic , factors related to a predisposition to arterial hypertension have a role in the susceptibility of diabetic renal disease . 
sedoanalgesia in urology : a safe , cost-effective alternative to general anaesthesia . a review of 1020 cases . sedoanalgesia is a technique developed to provide safe and satisfactory operating conditions for a wide range of patients independent of age and overall level of fitness ( although its use in children remains to be established ) . it is suitable for both endoscopic and open procedures , day-cases and in-patients . when used in day-case surgery it significantly improves overall efficiency . it is recognised that day-case surgery is an important and cost-effective element in surgical care . with increasing restraints being imposed upon hospital finances , patient beds and staffing levels , any strategies designed to improve efficiency in this sphere of surgical activity are to be welcomed . that 93 % of patients prefer sedoanalgesia to conventional general anaesthesia attests to its high degree of acceptability . the technique of sedoanalgesia , its applications and potential impact for urology are detailed . 
chronic dehydration stone disease . a study was made of 819 patients attending a metabolic stone clinic . a firm diagnosis was made in 708 ( 86 % ) and in 132 of these ( 19 % ) the diagnosis was thought to be chronic dehydration . the records were available for study for 87 males and 11 females in the chronic dehydration group . the mean age at presentation was 43 years . the causes of chronic dehydration were hot climate ( 62 % ) , with hot occupation and low water intake almost equal in second place . in patients with a single cause of chronic dehydration , 57 % also had a dietary risk factor for urolithiasis and this was most commonly high oxalate intake . following dietary advice , the mean urinary volume increased from 1720 to 2475 ml/24 h. this was accompanied by a rise in mean urinary calcium from 6.02 to 6.96 mmol/24 h , presumably due to the calcium in the additional water drunk . urinary oxalate did not change significantly . the mean follow-up time was 4.85 years and the stone recurrence rate was low . it was concluded that chronic dehydration is a common cause of urolithiasis ; this can be treated satisfactorily by increasing water intake plus dietary advice in certain cases . 
the use of internalised ureteric stents in renal transplant recipients . since 1982 , we have used internal indwelling ureteric stents for the management and prevention of ureteric reconstruction complications in 28 renal allograft recipients . a total of 30 stents were placed in 18 patients either diagnostically or therapeutically in the management of allograft ureteric obstruction . in 16 patients internal stents were placed at the time of reconstruction for primary ureteropyelostomy ( 3 ) , secondary ureteropyelostomy ( 8 ) , repeat reimplant ( 3 ) and repair of ureteric or pelviureteric junction injury ( 2 ) . complications included 3 episodes of transplant pyelonephritis , proximal stent migration ( 1 ) , persistent bacteriuria ( 1 ) and prolonged healing of a ureteropyelostomy ( 1 ) . internalised ureteric stenting is a safe and effective means of managing or preventing ureteric reconstruction complications in renal transplant recipients . 
effect of bladder outflow obstruction on the innervation of the rabbit urinary bladder . the effects of bladder outflow obstruction on the innervation of the bladder were studied using a rabbit animal model . partial occlusion of the bladder neck was obtained by the placement of a silk ligature at that level ; control animals underwent a sham procedure . after a 3-month period , the presence of outflow tract obstruction was confirmed using urodynamic studies . the animals were then killed and pharmacological assessments of the bladder innervation undertaken . detrusor muscle strip studies provided evidence of damage to the cholinergic innervation of the detrusor . also , muscle strips from obstructed animals showed reduced inhibitory responses to beta-adrenergic stimulation with isoprenaline . in addition to these muscle strip studies , the bladder content of the neuropeptide substance p was assayed , but no significant change was observed in response to obstruction . this finding suggests that substance p-containing sensory nerves may be spared from the denervating effect of bladder outflow obstruction . 
in vitro evaluation of the pollen extract , cernitin t-60 , in the regulation of prostate cell growth . nine human-derived cancer and non-cancer continuous cell lines were employed to evaluate the relative in vitro activity of the pollen extract , cernitin t-60 . responses of the cell lines to the drug were assessed by measuring growth and cell survival as determined by cell count . the results demonstrated that of the 9 continuous cell lines tested , only those derived from the human prostate were growth inhibited by the pollen extract , whereas the non-prostate derived cells exhibited variable degrees of resistance to the t-60 . the selectivity of the drug for the prostate cell lines was even more pronounced in the hormone-independent models , suggesting that there might be a place for the pollen extract in the control of abnormal growth in hormone-insensitive cells . 
treatment of outflow tract obstruction due to benign prostatic hyperplasia with the pollen extract , cernilton . a double-blind , placebo-controlled study . whilst prostatectomy remains the " gold standard " for the treatment of outflow tract obstruction due to benign prostatic hyperplasia , medical treatment -- if only for symptomatic relief -- appears to be an attractive alternative . most of the pharmacological agents in use block the hormonal or the sympathetic neurological pathways that influence prostate growth and function . all of these drugs are known to have side effects . sixty patients with outflow obstruction due to benign prostatic hyperplasia ( bph ) were entered into a double-blind , placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effect of a 6-month course of the pollen extract , cernilton . there was a statistically significant subjective improvement with cernilton ( 69 % of the patients ) compared with placebo ( 30 % ) . there was a significant decrease in residual urine in the patients treated with cernilton and in the antero-posterior ( a-p ) diameter of the prostate on ultrasound . however , differences in respect of flow rate and voided volume were not statistically significant . it is concluded that cernilton has a beneficial effect in bph and may have a place in the treatment of patients with mild or moderate symptoms of outflow obstruction . 
prostatic carcinoma : histological and immunohistological factors affecting prognosis . neuro-endocrine or paracrine cells of the human prostate and urethra have been identified by various methods , predominantly silver stains and immunocytochemistry . the incidence of neuro-endocrine differentiation in prostatic carcinoma has varied considerably from 10 to 100 % , but has not been studied previously as an independent factor affecting prognosis . nucleolar organiser regions ( nors ) are loops of ribosomal rna occurring in the nucleoli of cells which ultimately process rna genes . nors have been demonstrated by silver ( ag ) staining techniques and have been studied in numerous malignant tumours . a pilot study from this laboratory has shown a distinct and significant difference in agnor staining between prostatic carcinoma and benign prostatic epithelial hyperplasia . a retrospective study was performed with at least 6 years ' follow-up . this confirmed the presence of neuro-endocrine cells in more than half of the patients under investigation . a significant correlation between survival and the absence of neuro-endocrine cells was demonstrated . agnor staining was shown to be of no prognostic value . 
distribution of bony metastases in prostatic carcinoma . fifty-five prostate cancer and 55 breast cancer patients with positive bone scintigrams were studied . the pattern of spread in the axial skeleton and pelvis showed differences between the 2 groups . this difference was not related primarily to bone volume at the site of metastasis . the difference in distribution of bony metastases between breast and prostate is explained by our knowledge of batson 's vertebral venous plexus . 
increased survival of patients with massive lymphadenopathy and prostate cancer : evidence of heterogeneous tumour behaviour . the survival of patients with prostate cancer and radiologically detectable lymph node enlargement has been studied prospectively over an 8-year period . computed tomography in 108 patients presenting with symptoms , signs or biochemical results suggesting lymphatic spread revealed pelvic or abdominal node masses in 60 patients ; in 29 ( 48 % ) , the masses measured more than 4 cm and the maximum node diameter was 15 cm . two-thirds of patients had advanced ( t3/t4 ) tumour stage . following treatment , actuarial survival in all 60 patients with nodal enlargement was 40 % at 5 years . within this group , survival in 22 patients with lymphadenopathy but negative bone scans at diagnosis was significantly better than that of 38 patients with both node and bone disease ( 70 % vs 20 % at 5 years ) . this improvement was related both to an apparent inability of certain tumours initially to progress and seed within bone and to a marked sensitivity of the node masses to subsequent hormonal manipulation . primary tumour grade was proportionally similar in both groups . unexpectedly , 6 of the 38 patients with combined disease obtained a complete remission after treatment . the reason for this heterogeneous biological behaviour remains unclear ; but these observations underscore the importance of vigorous treatment in all patients with advanced lymph node disease . 
persistent carcinoma in situ of the testis after chemotherapy for advanced testicular germ cell tumours . the chemosensitivity of testicular carcinoma in situ ( cis ) was analysed in 25 testes excised 10 weeks to 4.5 years following platinum-based chemotherapy . cis was present in 8 of the 23 evaluable cases ( 35 % ) , in 5 of which the lesion coexisted with invasive germ cell tumour . it is concluded that cis may persist or recur after chemotherapy . this has implications for occult presentation of metastatic germ cell tumours and also for the management of the contralateral testis in patients with testicular germ cell tumours . 
the importance of prognostic factors in the individual treatment of patients with disseminated germ cell tumours . following chemotherapy for disseminated testicular cancer , 55 patients underwent surgery because of residual tumour . the histological findings were viable tumour in 12 patients , mature teratoma in 12 and fibrosis and/or necrosis in 31 . retroperitoneal abdominal masses were evaluated radiographically before and after chemotherapy . the reduction in size of these masses after chemotherapy appeared to have prognostic significance . a decrease of more than 70 % was always associated with fibrosis . a residual mass over 50 mm indicated viable tumour or mature teratoma . seminoma or embryonal carcinoma was more likely to result in fibrosis/necrosis in the resected tissue . both the indiana and the eortc classification models can be used for prognosis . radiographic measurements before and after chemotherapy are of considerable prognostic significance . these objective indicators help in planning treatment and so diminish the side effects of therapy and maintain or even increase the high cure rate in disseminated testicular cancer . 
parathyroid autotransplantation this paper reviews the technique , indications and results of parathyroid autotransplantation . autotransplantation is most commonly indicated following parathyroidectomy for renal osteodystrophy , but can also be used in primary hyperplastic hyperparathyroidism , re-exploration of the neck and radical neck surgery . the success of the technique ranges from 75 to 100 per cent . 
primary chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy and/or surgery for children with localized sarcoma of the bladder , prostate , vagina , uterus , and cervix . a comparison of the results in intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma studies i and ii . a major objective of the second intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma study ( irs-ii ) ( 1978 to 1984 ) was to preserve the bladder without compromising the survival of children with localized genitourinary sarcomas arising in or near the bladder . after incisional biopsy , 109 patients with localized , gross residual sarcoma of the prostate ( 43 patients ) , bladder ( 43 patients ) , vagina ( 20 patients ) , or cervix/uterine corpus ( 3 patients ) were treated with vincristine , dactinomycin , and cyclophosphamide ( vac ) . after two to four drug courses , radiation therapy and/or surgery were used to treat patients with residual or recurrent tumor . the 3-year survival rate of patients treated on this primary chemotherapy regimen ( 70 % ) was similar to that of the primary surgery regimens of irs-i ( 78 % ; p = 0.46 ) , but the 3-year disease-free survival rate was significantly inferior ( 52 % versus 70 % ; p = 0.02 ) . since the irs-ii encouraged bladder preservation at the onset of therapy , the percentage of patients with bladder and prostate tumors who retained the bladder was initially substantially higher in irs-ii ( 97 % ) than in irs-i ( 58 % ) . however , the percentages of 95 patients with bladder-prostate ( bp ) tumors in irs-ii who retained the bladder and were alive at 2 and 3 years after starting treatment were only 33 % and 22 % , respectively , compared with 26 % and 23 % , respectively , in the 66 patients with bp tumors in irs-i . thus , sequential treatment with primary chemotherapy , followed by radiation therapy and/or surgery as given in irs-ii , failed to improve the eventual bladder salvage rate . 
testicular relapse in children with acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia . the clinical course and other distinctive features of five children who developed a testicular relapse 4 months to 25 months after the diagnosis of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia ( anll ) are described . the chief presenting feature at relapse was painless testicular enlargement , as is also seen in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who relapse in the testes . by french-american-british convention , the malignant cells were classified as m4 ( myelomonoblastic ) in four cases and m2 ( myeloblastic ) in one . all children received a course of multiagent reinduction chemotherapy and all but one received local irradiation to the testes . only one of these children , whose relapse was a late event after elective cessation of therapy , is a long-term survivor . a comparison with six previously published cases shows similar clinical characteristics and outcome . given the poor responses of such patients to conventional treatment , it seems worthwhile to consider the use of intensive reinduction chemotherapy with concomitant bilateral testicular irradiation followed by remission intensification and an autologous or allogenic marrow transplant . 
dna analysis of multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas . the authors used retrospective quantitative dna analysis to study interrelationships between multiple synchronous renal cell carcinomas in seven patients . dna content was determined by image analysis on feulgen-stained nuclear smears prepared from multiple paraffin blocks from each tumor . tumors were unilateral in four cases and bilateral in three . ten tumors had homogeneous , and four heterogeneous dna stemlines . intertumoral heterogeneity in four cases suggested multifocal origin . identical dna aneuploid indices in bilateral tumors in one case suggested metastasis from a solitary origin . abnormal dna content and heterogeneous populations began to appear in the size range 2.0 to 5.0 cm . all tumors over 5.0 cm contained nondiploid populations . although the interrelationships between these multiple synchronous neoplasms are not entirely clear , the dna analysis suggests that the occurrence of nondiploid stemlines and heterogeneous dna content may parallel both tumor growth and more aggressive behavior . 
sarcoid reaction mimicking intrathoracic dissemination of testicular cancer . the close observation of patients treated for testicular cancer led to the suspicion of intrathoracic and/or mediastinal metastases on radiologic examination in a number of patients without other evidence of relapse . this report presents two patients with combined seminomatous and nonseminomatous germ cell tumors with isolated sarcoid reactions of hilar and interlobular lymph nodes , detected concomitant with diagnosis and 12 months after diagnosis , respectively . histologic examination appears to be imperative in these cases to avoid unnecessary chemotherapy . 
chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome after the treatment of head and neck cancer . a case report . a 62-year-old woman who was being treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck developed a chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome during the second cycle of neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin , bleomycin , and methotrexate . though the syndrome was suspected early , attempts at reversing the hematologic and renal abnormalities were unsuccessful . at postmortem examination , the characteristic microvascular lesions of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome were found in the kidneys . 
primary carcinoma of the upper urinary tract . effect of primary and secondary therapy on survival . the pathologic material and medical records of 76 patients with primary upper urinary tract carcinomas were reviewed to identify the role of grade and stage in predicting survival ; to determine any differences in survival between ureteral and renal pelvic carcinoma ; to understand the role of local therapy in low grade , low stage tumors ; and to establish the usefulness of adjuvant therapies in metastatic disease . kaplan-meier survival curves with cox-mantel analysis for statistical significance revealed both grade and stage to be excellent predictors of survival . no differences in survival were noted between renal pelvic and ureteral carcinomas for equivalent stage tumors . for low grade , low stage tumors , although there was an increased risk of local recurrence with local therapy , there were no differences in survival between patients treated with local therapy or radical surgery . finally , cisplatin-based chemotherapy seemed to improve survival in patients with metastatic disease . 
the significance of low-grade prostate cancer on needle biopsy . a radical prostatectomy study of tumor grade , volume , and stage of the biopsied and multifocal tumor . twenty-one cases showing only low gleason grade prostate carcinoma on needle biopsy were identified . in 15 cases radical prostatectomy was performed with the entire prostate embedded for thorough evaluation of grade , volume , and stage of tumor at the needle biopsy site as well as of multifocal tumor . eight specimens had solitary low grade and low volume tumor , with only one of these cases showing minimal capsular penetration and the others confined to the prostate . four cases had low-grade tumor at the biopsy site , yet multifocal higher grade tumor . all of these tumor nodules were low volume and confined to the prostate . in three cases there was both low-grade and high-grade tumor in the nodule sampled by needle biopsy . in two of these cases the tumor was large and in the third it was small but mostly higher grade , with two of these cases showing capsular penetration . although transrectal ultrasound and repeat needle biopsy would most likely have identified either the tumors ' large size or high-grade component in these latter three cases , it is unlikely that these techniques would have identified the cases of multifocal higher grade tumor because of their relatively small size . furthermore , preoperative serum prostate specific antigen levels and clinical stage failed to distinguish those cases with higher grade tumor . because of the difficulty in identifying these areas of high-grade tumor preoperatively , it is uncertain whether expectant therapy could be recommended even for patients with very low-grade cancer on needle biopsy . 
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells . mesothelioma has not been commonly reported as a cause of hypercalcemia of malignancy . we have studied a patient with malignant mesothelioma and hypercalcemia in association with elevated plasma concentrations of parathyroid hormone-like peptide ( plp ) . immunohistochemical analysis of the tumor and seven of eight other mesotheliomas that were not associated with hypercalcemia revealed the presence of plp cytoplasmic immunopositivity . plp immunopositivity was also detected in normal and reactive mesothelial cells . the results of these studies suggest that plp immunoreactivity is common in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells and raises the possibility that plp production may play a role in the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia associated with mesothelioma . 
familial testicular cancer in five members of a cancer-prone kindred . of a family of 13 siblings , four brothers have developed testicular neoplasms , one embryonal cell carcinoma and three testicular seminomas . a first cousin once removed on their mother 's side of the family ( fourth-degree relative ) has developed an embryonal carcinoma . after treatment they are all alive and well . their mother is a dizygous twin and one of ten siblings . multiple other cancers have been diagnosed among her siblings and their offspring including breast carcinoma at age 30 years in monozygous twin nieces . associated urogenital abnormalities , concordance of age , and discordance of pathology in the five males with testicular cancer is discussed . further identification and reporting of this risk factor is encouraged . 
anaesthesia for renal transplantation in sickle cell disease . sickle cell disease ( scd ) is associated with many pathological and functional abnormalities affecting all organ systems . renal manifestations of scd may result in end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) , which can be treated by chronic haemodialysis or renal transplantation . renal transplantation was successfully performed in a 25-yr-old male with sickle cell beta-thalassaemia and nephrotic syndrome . we present a case report of this patient , a discussion of the renal complications associated with scd and the perioperative management of a patient with scd undergoing renal transplantation . 
comparison of pathological lesions on repeated renal biopsies in 73 patients with primary iga glomerulonephritis : value of quantitative scoring and approach to final prognosis . in order to improve our possibility of establishing a long-term prognosis in iga nephritis , 73 patients out of a cohort of 282 , followed over a mean period of 12 years at the same institution for an iga nephritis , had a prospective second renal biopsy 5 years later . for all biopsies ( rb1 and rb2 ) , we developed a quantitative scoring for all elementary lesions with a glomerular , an interstitial , a tubular and a vascular index . the sum of these 4 indexes gave a global optical score ( gos ) . pathological improvement on light microscopy ( delta gos less than or equal to -2 ) was noticed only in 3 patients ( 4 % ) , stability ( -2 less than delta gos less than +2 ) in 30 patients ( 41 % ) , mild deterioration ( +2 less than or equal to gos less than 5 ) in 23 patients ( 32 % ) and major progression ( delta gos greater than or equal to 5 ) in 17 patients ( 23 % ) . we observed no pathological remission , even in the 14 patients with complete clinical remission . the pathological progression was characterized by an increase in all elementary lesions , mainly the tubulo-interstitial and vascular ones . by immunofluorescence mesangial iga deposits remained stable with no disappearance ; however , the number and intensity of vascular c3 deposits were significantly greater on rb2 . chronic renal failure ( serum creatinine greater than 1.5 mg/dl ) correlated best with major pathological progression and mainly with the progression of extraglomerular lesions . iga nephritis is a slowly progressive disease with no pathological remission , and its evolution is characterized by progression of extraglomerular lesions , mainly vascular , which might play a major role in the ultimate development of chronic renal failure . 
iga nephritis in behcet 's disease : case report and review of the literature . we describe a 13-year-old girl with the incomplete type of behcet 's disease who had recurrent oral and genital ulcers , folliculitis , proteinuria and hematuria . renal biopsy specimens revealed diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis with strongly positive iga deposits in the glomerular mesangial area , which is histologically indistinguishable from primary iga nephritis . further studies of the iga subclasses showed that iga1 deposits were predominant in the glomerular mesangium . primary iga nephritis is thought to be associated with polymeric iga1 . so it appears that there may be a common underlying disease or mechanism involved in both primary iga nephritis and the iga nephritis in behcet 's disease . 
glomerular iga deposits in patients with celiac disease . glomerular immunopathology was studied in 25 patients with newly diagnosed celiac disease . none had clinical signs of renal disease . glomeruli were obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy . the specimens were processed and studied by indirect immunofluorescence for immunoglobulins and complement . mesangial iga was found in 8 of the patients . it occurred occasionally together with slight igg or igm , but c3 was not seen in these patients . iga-class circulating immune complexes ( cic ) , antireticulin antibodies ( ara ) , antigliadin antibodies ( aga ) , and rheumatoid factor ( rf ) occurred significantly more often in the patients with mesangial iga than in the 17 patients having no mesangial iga . the patients with mesangial iga also had significantly higher mean levels of serum iga , iga-ara and iga-aga than those without . the results suggest that glomerular mesangial deposits of iga occur frequently in untreated celiac disease and that they are in some way associated with circulating iga-class antibodies and immune complexes . in this situation iga seems to be deposited without being able to induce clinically overt glomerulonephritis , a circumstance that may be related to the lack of complement in the deposits . 
diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis : long-term observations in patients treated with ancrod . twenty-two patients with histologically demonstrated diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis ( dpln ) and glomerular thrombosis received a 14-day course of ancrod , followed in most by nitrogen mustard ( mechlorethamine hydrochloride ) 0.4 mg/kg . many were referred when renal function was deteriorating despite large doses of prednisone . the patients had severe disease ; there was a high degree of glomerular sclerosis ; the median serum creatinine was 137 mumol/l , the diastolic blood pressure 101 mm hg . reported previously was a short-term improvement in renal function , blood pressure , and renal histology . reported here is the long-term follow-up on all 22 patients for an average of 58 months . three died of causes other than renal failure . eleven developed end-stage renal disease an average of 27 months after ancrod treatment . the other 8 are alive with no deterioration of renal function after an average of 70 months . this outcome seems satisfactory when disease severity is taken into consideration . factors present at treatment start that might be associated with subsequent renal function deterioration were : prior prolonged prednisone treatment , extensive glomerular sclerosis , high plasma alpha 2-antiplasmin and possibly triglycerides . during the follow-up period after completion of treatment , later relapses of sle and dpln appeared to be an important predictor of deterioration of renal function . 
disappearance of renin-induced proteinuria by an ace-inhibitor : a case report . a 55-year-old man developed renovascular hypertension that was characterized by high plasma renin activity . this was accompanied by nephrotic range proteinuria . treatment with nifedipine and furosemide lowered the blood pressure to normal values , but proteinuria persisted . however , treatment with an ace-inhibitor brought resolution of the proteinuria , suggesting a role for angiotensin ii in urinary protein loss . 
post-traumatic acute renal failure , 1956-1988 . eighty patients with acute renal failure secondary to trauma treated between 1956 and 1988 are reviewed . the overall mortality was 46.3 % . factors associated with increased mortality were age , high injury severity score , and injury to the abdomen and pelvic contents . the number of injuries , the delay between injury and the institution of dialysis , and the level of urea on starting dialysis did not affect mortality . the declining incidence of traumatic acute renal failure highlights the importance of prompt effective resuscitation of injured patients . 
the treatment of mesangial iga nephropathy with cyclophosphamide , dipyridamole and warfarin : a two-year prospective trial . of 52 patients with mesangial iga nephropathy , 25 were allocated to treatment with cyclophosphamide ( 6 months ) , and dipyridamole and warfarin ( 2 years ) and 27 to no treatment in a randomized prospective 2-year study . at entry , the treated and untreated groups of patients did not differ in mean serum creatinines , urinary protein excretions , quantitative urinary erythrocyte counts or blood pressure readings . at the end of the trial mean ( + / - sem ) serum creatinine values had gone from 0.12 + / - 0.01 to 0.13 + / - 0.01 mmol/l ( p less than 0.05 ) in untreated patients and from 0.10 + / - 0.01 to 0.12 + / - 0.01 mmol/l ( p less than 0.05 ) in treated patients . mean ( + / - sem ) log values of urinary erythrocyte ( rbc ) counts had not changed significantly from 5.47 + / - 0.09 to 5.21 + / - 0.14 log rbc/ml in untreated patients , from 5.45 + / - 0.11 to 5.49 + / - 0.19 log rbc/ml in treated patients . however , in treated patients , mean ( + / - sem ) urinary protein excretions decreased from 1.67 + / - 0.35 to 1.15 + / - 0.31 g/24 h ( p less than 0.01 ) whereas in untreated patients urinary protein was unchanged between initial values of 1.76 + / - 0.34 and follow-up at 1.89 + / - 0.45 g/24 h. no significant changes in blood pressure occurred in either group . this study supports the observation that treatment of iga nephropathy with cyclophosphamide , dipyridamole and warfarin is associated with a reduction of urinary protein excretion but a significant effect on preservation of renal function , at least as determined by serum creatinine values , could not be confirmed over this two-year study . 
membranous glomerulonephritis induced by 2-mercaptopropionylglycine ( 2-mpg ) . thirty-two patients suffering from cystinuria were treated with 2-mercaptopropionylglycine ( 2-mpg ) for 0.5-10 years ( average 6.3 years ) . after 4-14 months of treatment at daily doses ranging from 500 to 2500 mg , three patients developed slight to moderate proteinuria . two patients were subjected to renal biopsy which showed membranous glomerulonephritis . in one biopsy signs of progressive glomerular lesions were observed . in seven patients ( 22 % ) antinuclear antibodies were demonstrated . in one patient with biopsy-proven membranous glomerulonephritis , the antinuclear antibodies consisted of antihistone antibodies . the observations presented in this report indicate that 2-mpg , like d-penicillamine , could induce autoimmune reactions , in some cases leading to membranous glomerulonephritis . the prognosis seemed to be favorable . however , the occurrence of irreversible glomerular lesions as reported by us should be borne in mind when considering long-term treatment with 2-mpg . a continuous , close follow-up of patients on 2-mpg treatment is recommended . 
acute deterioration of renal function associated with enteric hyperoxaluria . enteric hyperoxaluria due to malabsorption syndromes has been well documented to cause renal calculi and chronic tubulointerstitial renal damage . rarely , in the setting of intestinal bypass operations for morbid obesity , enteric hyperoxaluria has produced acute renal failure . we report two patients who suffered acute deterioration of renal function associated with increased intestinal absorption and renal excretion of oxalate associated with steatorrhea . one patient had a large portion of his small bowel resected many years prior to the onset of the renal failure and the second patient had chronic pancreatitis causing steatorrhea . both patients had renal biopsy documentation of the acute nature of the tubular damage produced by oxalate deposition . the mechanisms of their deterioration of renal function may relate to sudden increases in steatorrhea in association with episodes of volume depletion . enteric hyperoxaluria may be an easily overlooked and potentially preventable etiology of acute renal dysfunction . 
is preliminary binephrectomy necessary in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease undergoing renal transplantation ? patients with end-stage chronic renal failure due to autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease who underwent renal transplantation with or without preliminary binephrectomy were retrospectively studied to determine the effect of binephrectomy on outcome . nineteen patients were identified . thirteen patients had no surgery prior to transplantation and six underwent preliminary binephrectomy . one patient died as a result of the nephrectomy . twenty-one renal allografts were performed on 18 patients of whom seven have died of sepsis ; 10 have functioning grafts and one has returned to dialysis . patients not undergoing preliminary binephrectomy had a statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) increase in mortality and morbidity due to septic complications related to polycystic kidney disease . indications for bilateral nephrectomy should be reconsidered . 
urinary excretion of albumin and enzymes in non-insulin-dependent chinese diabetics . urine albumin ( alb ) , total protein ( tp ) and creatinine ( cr ) concentrations and the activities of n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase ( nag ) , alanine aminopeptidase ( aap ) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase ( ggt ) were measured in untimed random urine samples from 157 non-insulin-dependent ( niddm ) diabetic subjects and 54 healthy subjects . in niddm subjects the excretions of tp , alb , nag , aap , ggt ( expressed in relation to creatinine ) were significantly higher and were abnormal in 59.9 % , 68.8 % , 47.2 % , 41.4 % and 13.4 % of the subjects , respectively . however , 24.5 % , 22.4 % and 6.1 % of niddm subjects with normal alb/cr ratio had abnormal excretion of nag , aap and ggt , respectively . alb/cr ratio was greater than 26.8 mg/mmol ( considered to be equivalent to albumin excretion of 250 mg/24 h ) in 14.6 % and between 2.5-26 .8 mg/mmol ( equivalent to albumin excretion rates of 20-250 mg/24 h ) in 54.1 % of subjects . in those diabetic subjects with clinical retinopathy only alb/cr ratio was higher . arterial blood pressure was significantly correlated with alb/cr ( r = 0.365 ) and nag/cr ( r = 0.204 ) . we conclude that prevalence of abnormal alb/cr is relatively common among chinese niddm subjects . 
hypophosphatemia in infants on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . three infants with irreversible renal failure and treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) developed hypophosphatemia . in one of them rachitic lesions were observed on x-ray and bone biopsy showed osteomalacic osteodystrophy . different mechanisms may have been at the origin of the hypophosphatemia : high doses of phosphate binders , low phosphorus intake , phosphate loss with the dialysate and possibly nutritional repletion . dietary phosphorus restriction and use of phosphate binders should be applied with caution and serum phosphate should be monitored regularly in infants treated with capd . 
uremic pruritus in patients on hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) . the role of plasma histamine and skin mast cells . fifty-four uremic patients ( 26 patients were maintained on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ capd ] and 28 on hemodialysis [ hd ] ) were screened for pruritus and plasma histamine . 50 % of the patients on capd and 64.3 % of patients on hd complained of current itching . the extent of itch , assessed by a score , was not significantly different between hd and capd patients . plasma histamine levels showed no significant difference between capd and hd patients and no correlation between plasma histamine level and the extent of pruritus could be demonstrated . in six patients on capd and 9 patients on hd plasma histamine levels were determined before and three months after initiation of dialysis treatment ; no substantial change could be observed . in some patients skin biopsies were obtained from the gluteal region in order to determine the number of skin mast cells . the number of mast cells did not show a significant difference between controls ( n = 12 ) , uremic patients before initiation of dialysis treatment ( n = 8 ) , patients on capd ( n = 11 ) and patients on hd ( n = 13 ) . there was no relationship between the level of plasma histamine , the number of skin mast cells and the extent of pruritus in uremic patients . 
total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus . a retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus . the overall infection rate was 7 % , with an overall revision rate of 10 % and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years . wound complications were present in 12 % of the tkas . the rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients . therefore , maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having tka to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis . 
femoral neck fractures in patients receiving long-term dialysis . the morbidity and mortality of 11 femoral neck fractures were analyzed to compare operative and conservative management of femoral neck fractures in dialysis patients . all fractures occurred in older men with severe cardiac , pulmonary , gastro-intestinal , and neurologic conditions and with advanced renal osteodystrophy . six of the seven operated patients survived the surgery and achieved varying degrees of ambulation . stability of the operated hip was excellent in each case . post-operative complications included transient confusional state related to narcotics , pneumonia , decubitus ulcers , and severe hypoalbuminemia . all four patients who were managed conservatively died from complications of the fracture . progressive deterioration was noted in each nonoperated patient , with confusion caused by narcotics and analgesics , pneumonia , hepatic coma , decubitus ulcers , severe depression , and severe hypoalbuminemia . therefore , operative management was superior to conservative management for femoral neck fractures of patients receiving chronic dialysis with multiple medical problems and advanced renal osteodystrophy . narcotics must be used with great caution , and efforts should be directed toward prevention of malnutrition and decubitus ulcers . 
validity of creatinine clearance estimates in the assessment of renal function . in clinical practice , estimations of renal function are commonly used to calculate the appropriate dose for drugs that are renally cleared . continuous-infusion inulin clearance ( clin ) , 4-hour creatinine clearance ( clcr , m ) , and 24-hour creatinine clearance ( clcr , a ) were measured in 109 subjects ( 86 men and 23 women ) with varying degrees of stable renal function ( clin , 6 to 209 ml/min ) and compared with clcr values as predicted by five equations on the basis of plasma creatinine concentrations , age , weight , and/or height . the clcr , m was positively correlated with clin ( r = 0.92 ; p less than 0.0001 ) but exceeded clin by 15 % between the range of 30 and 209 ml/min ( clin ) . similarly , clcr , a correlated well with both clcr , m ( r = 0.84 ; p less than 0.0005 ) and clin ( r = 0.84 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . the relative role of tubular secretion in the overall clearance of creatinine increased with declining clin and exceeded 40 % when clin was below 30 ml/min . clcr estimated by the cockcroft-gault and mawer methods did not significantly differ from either clcr , m or clcr , m , whereas the other equations generally underestimated clcr . among the numerous mathematical equations , clcr as estimated by the method proposed either by mawer or cockcroft and gault was the best predictor of clin ( clin = 1.05 clrcr - 18.38 or clin = 1.12 clcr - 20.60 , respectively ; r = 0.81 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . the present data support the use of estimator equations proposed by cockcroft and gault or mawer for rapid estimation of renal function in the clinical setting . 
urogenital dysfunction after abdominoperineal resection for carcinoma of the rectum . the long-term urogenital dysfunctions in 46 of 104 surviving patients submitted to abdominoperineal resection for rectal carcinoma between 1972 and 1986 were collected and assessed . urinary retention was present in 41 percent of the men and 35 percent of women , while incontinence was present in 10 percent of men and 29 percent of women . impotence was reported by 59 percent of the males , all sexually active before surgery . dyspareunia was present in 50 percent of the women in the study . the possibility of treating prostatic hypertrophy concurrently with abdominoperineal resection in selected cases to avoid urinary retention is discussed . the limited number of responders to the survey may interfere with the global statistical significance . 
involvement of epidermal growth factor deficiency in pathogenesis of oligozoospermia in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice . based on previous findings that epidermal growth factor ( egf ) , which plays an important role in maintenance of spermatogenesis , is deficient in diabetic mice , the significance of egf deficiency in the pathogenesis of oligozoospermia in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice was studied . egf levels in the submandibular glands and plasma of diabetic mice were 0.61 + / - 0.07 micrograms/mg tissue and 0.25 + / - 0.02 ng/ml ( mean + / - se ) , respectively , whereas those of normal mice were 1.63 + / - 0.08 micrograms/mg tissue and 0.54 + / - 0.04 ng/ml , respectively . the epididymal sperm counts of diabetic mice , 4.7 + / - 0.14 x 10 ( 5 ) / mg tissue , were significantly lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than those of normal mice , 6.0 + / - 0.10 x 10 ( 5 ) / mg tissue . administration of egf ( 5 micrograms/mouse/day ) to diabetic mice significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) increased their sperm counts to 5.5 + / - 0.16 x 10 ( 5 ) / mg tissue without affecting plasma levels of testosterone and glucose . furthermore , insulin treatment ( 1 u/mouse/day ) of diabetic mice restored the submandibular gland , plasma egf concentrations , and sperm counts to normal levels . the restorative effects of insulin on sperm production appeared to be mediated , at least in part , by egf , because its effect was significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) reduced by the concomitant administration of egf antiserum . in addition , the plasma testosterone levels of diabetic mice , 67 + / - 14.3 ng/ml , were lower that those of normal mice , 122 + / - 19.1 ng/ml . administration of testosterone ( 1 mg/mouse/day ) normalized the submandibular gland and plasma egf levels and significantly increased sperm counts in the epididymis . these results suggest that egf deficiency is a possible cause for the pathogenesis of oligozoospermia in diabetic mice . 
the interaction of parameters of male and female fertility in couples with previously unexplained infertility . a prospective study was undertaken of the relationship between semen variables , serial endocrine and follicular ultrasound measurements in one complete menstrual cycle , and the treatment-independent chance of conception for couples who were referred with unexplained infertility . for the 91 couples studied , the mean length of infertility was 70 months . a 100 % follow-up rate was achieved . when a stepwise analysis was performed examining semen variables and ultrasonographic and endocrine variables , the mean ratio of salivary progesterone/plasma estradiol between days +1 and +3 , with respect to the luteinizing hormone surge and the grade 2 motile sperm density , were the only variables that achieved the 5 % level of significance . there was a highly significant relationship between the product of these two variables and the chance of conception . this study clearly demonstrates an interaction between parameters of male and female fertility . 
psychological assessment and follow-up after in vitro fertilization : assessing the impact of failure . the present study was conducted to assess the immediate psychological impact of failed in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) . emotional status and marital functioning were also examined pre-ivf , and both demographic information and psychological test scores were evaluated as predictors of reaction to treatment failure . after a failed first cycle , both males and females showed significant increases in anxiety and depressive symptoms . although group means were not clinically elevated and most participants were coping adequately , the prevalence of both mild and moderate depression increased substantially , particularly among women . in addition , women without children were a subgroup particularly vulnerable to the stress of failure . predisposition towards anxiety , pre-ivf depressive symptoms , and fertility history were the most important predictors of emotional response . treatment implications of these findings were discussed . 
a reverse ( antibody capture ) enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of antisperm antibodies in sera and genital tract secretions . a reverse ( antibody capture ) enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) for detection of antisperm antibodies has been developed . the assay enables detection of immunoglobulin ( ig ) m , igg , iga , or igm , igg , and iga -- antisperm antibodies in serum , cervical mucus , and seminal plasma samples . the reverse elisa is more specific and sensitive than conventional elisa in detecting human antisperm antibodies of different isotypes . using this assay , statistically significant differences in levels of antibodies between infertile and fertile individuals were demonstrated in sera and in genital tract secretions . studies with 143 infertile couples revealed that the presence of antibodies in sera was not necessarily reflected in individual 's genital tract secretion and vice versa . these data emphasize the importance of detecting antisperm antibodies in sera as well as in genital tract secretions for correct evaluation of sperm immunity . 
protein differences between normal and oligospermic human sperm demonstrated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis . protein expression by sperm obtained from men with normal semen analysis and men with oligospermia were evaluated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis . proteins were solubilized in a 9.5 m urea/2 % nonidet-p40 ( lkb , bromma , sweden ) lysis buffer and underwent second dimension separation on 10 to 16 % polyacrylamide gradient gels . a set of 36 invariant proteins was identified in all normospermic samples , whereas 8 of 10 evaluable oligospermic samples lacked 1 or more of the invariant proteins . proteins absent in oligospermic samples may be critical to normal sperm function and may serve as markers for infertility . 
pooled sequential ejaculates : a way to increase the total number of motile sperm from oligozoospermic men . we investigated the yield of total number of motile spermatozoa from oligozoospermic men by pooling two closely spaced sequential ejaculates . semen characteristics were compared between sequential ejaculates ( within a period of 1 to 4 hours ) of 18 oligozoospermic males ( sperm concentration less than 20 x 10 ( 6 ) / ml and total sperm count less than 40 x 10 ( 6 ) in the ejaculate ) and a control group of 16 normozoospermic men . whereas the median total number of motile sperm of normozoospermic males significantly decreased from 70 x 10 ( 6 ) in the first ejaculate to 23 x 10 ( 6 ) in the second sequential ejaculate , such a decrease was not detected in oligozoospermic males , 3.6 x 10 ( 6 ) and 3.1 x 10 ( 6 ) , respectively . the percent of normozoospermic and oligozoospermic men who demonstrated a decreased ( less than 50 % ) , a comparable ( 50 % to 150 % ) , or an increased ( greater than 150 % ) total motile sperm count in the second ejaculate in comparison with the first ejaculate were 69 % , 31 % , and 0 versus 39 % , 28 % , and 33 % , respectively . consequently , pooling of two sequential ejaculates significantly increased the median total number of motile sperm from normozoospermic males by 144 % and from oligozoospermic males by 329 % , ( to 10.2 x 10 ( 6 ] . we suggest that pooling of two sequential ejaculates from oligozoospermic males is a simple and cost effective method to increase significantly the total number of motile sperm for intrauterine insemination , in vitro fertilization , gamete intrafallopian transfer , or semen cryopreservation . 
studies on requirements for trackpoints in cellsoft automated semen analysis . the cellsoft ( cryo resources , ltd. , new york , ny ) system for computer-assisted sperm analysis was evaluated as to the appropriate settings for trackpoints . fifty-eight human spermatozoa exhibiting complex swimming modes were chosen for analysis at room temperature . the accumulated measures for curvilinear velocity , linearity , mean and maximum amplitude of lateral head displacement , and beat cross frequency were determined over a range of trackpoints from 2 to 37 . stable measures ( within the 95 % confidence interval at 37 frames ) were observed at 4 frames for curvilinear velocity and at 20 frames for linearity . the corresponding figure for mean amplitude of lateral head displacement and beat cross frequency was 8 frames . we conclude that the frame requirements concerning measures for curvilinear velocity/linearity and mean amplitude of lateral head displacement/beat cross frequency should be 20 and 8 , respectively . thus , 20 consecutive frames to analyze will suffice . 
short-term administration of captopril and nifedipine and exercise-induced albuminuria in normotensive diabetic patients with early-stage nephropathy . recent studies have demonstrated that short-term angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibition with captopril can reduce urinary albumin excretion rate ( uaer ) after exercise in normotensive diabetic patients with early-stage nephropathy . the aim of this study was to investigate whether this effect of ace inhibition was due to a systemic hypotensive action or a specific action at the intrarenal level . thus , we compared the acute effects of captopril and the ca2 ( + ) - channel blocker nifedipine on exercise-induced uaer in normotensive ( blood pressure less than 165/95 mmhg ) diabetic patients who were normoalbuminuric or microalbuminuric at rest ( stage 2 or 3 of diabetic nephropathy ) . twenty-five stage 2 diabetic nephropathy patients , 39 stage 3 diabetic nephropathy patients , and 12 nondiabetic subjects performed five submaximal cycloergometric exercises ( 90 % of theoretical heart rate ) on nonconsecutive days . the first two exercises were performed in basal conditions ; the next three exercises were performed 24 h after administration of captopril ( 25 mg twice daily ) or nifedipine ar ( 20 mg twice daily ) or placebo ( 1 tablet twice daily ) according to a randomized double-blind crossover trial . after placebo , blood pressure and uaer did not change at rest or 1 h after exercise . after captopril , blood pressure at rest and during exercise was similar to that observed after placebo . uaer at rest was not modified , whereas 1 h after exercise , it was significantly decreased both in stage 2 and stage 3 diabetic nephropathy patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . after nifedipine , blood pressure decreased significantly at rest and during exercise in respect to placebo and captopril . uaer at rest did not change significantly . 
relationship between blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion in development of microalbuminuria . two hundred nine consecutive normotensive insulin-dependent diabetic ( iddm ) patients were followed prospectively from november 1982 to january 1988 . patient urinary albumin excretion rate ( uae ) had to be normal ( less than 30 mg/24 h ) on at least two occasions before inclusion in the study . patients were aged 18-50 yr with a duration of diabetes of 10-30 yr . uae was measured every 4 mo , and supine blood pressure was measured annually . two hundred five patients completed the study . five years later , 15 patients had developed persistent microalbuminuria with median uae greater than 30 mg/24 h for at least 2 yr ( group 2 ) , and 190 patients stayed normoalbuminuric ( group 1 ) . although within normal range , initial uae was significantly elevated in group 2 compared with group 1 ( mean 19 mg/24 h [ range 15-23 mg/24 h ] vs. 11 mg/24 h [ 10-12 ] , 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , p less than 0.001 ) . initially , there was no difference in blood pressure between group 2 ( mean systolic 122 mmhg [ 117-127 ] , diastolic 80 mmhg [ 76-84 ] ) and group 1 ( mean 126 mmhg [ 124-128 ] , 79 mmhg [ 78-80 ] , 95 % ci ) , and a significant increase in diastolic blood pressure could first be detected during the 3rd yr of persistent microalbuminuria ( mean systolic 132 mmhg [ 124-140 ] , diastolic 85 mmhg [ 81-89 ] vs. 128 mmhg [ 126-130 ] , 79 mmhg [ 78-80 ] , p less than 0.05 ) . initial hemoglobin a1c was significantly elevated in group 2 compared with group 1 ( 9.6 % [ 8.8-10 .4 ] vs. 8.5 % [ 8.3-8 .7 ] , p less than 0.01 ) . 
enalapril and renal injury in spontaneously hypertensive rats . rats of the spontaneously hypertensive strain develop kidney damage that resembles the nephropathy seen in some cases of human essential hypertension . previous studies with a triple drug antihypertensive regimen indicated that proteinuria and glomerular histopathology in spontaneously hypertensive rats might develop despite long-term effective control of systemic blood pressure . to investigate further the relation between hypertension and kidney disease , a group of spontaneously hypertensive rats were treated with enalapril at 15 weeks of age . blood pressure , protein excretion , and kidney function were measured in those rats at regular intervals during the next year and a half and were compared with untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats and the normotensive wistar-kyoto parent strain . kidney tissue samples from all three groups , collected at autopsy , were stained by immunohistochemical and conventional methods to assess the relative severity and nature of kidney damage . although enalapril therapy was completely effective in controlling the blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats , it only postponed the onset of kidney disease . enalapril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats eventually exhibited albuminuria as severe as that found in hypertensive rats . kidney vessel pathology was completely prevented with enalapril , but the abnormal accumulation of mononuclear cells in tubulointerstitial and periglomerular sites was the same as in untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats . we have concluded that elevated protein excretion in rats of the spontaneously hypertensive rat strain is not a secondary consequence of systemic hypertension . structural abnormalities of renal vessels also do not appear to contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of albuminuria in spontaneously hypertensive rats . other explanations must be sought to account for the close link between spontaneous hypertension and kidney damage in this animal model . the clear dissociation of kidney disease from systemic hypertension exhibited by spontaneously hypertensive rats may also be relevant for human disease . 
intrarenal de novo production of angiotensin i in subjects with renal artery stenosis . to estimate the renal extraction and de novo production of angiotensin i and to assess the contribution of blood-borne renin to renal angiotensin i production , the aortic and renal venous plasma levels of renin and intact [ 125i ] angiotensin i and endogenous angiotensin i during continuous systemic intravenous infusion of monoiodinated [ 125i ] angiotensin i were measured in subjects with unilateral renal artery stenosis ( n = 8 ) who were treated with captopril ( 50 mg b.i.d. ) . results demonstrated that 80 % of angiotensin i delivered by the renal artery was extracted both by the affected and the unaffected kidney and that on both sides a major part of angiotensin i in the renal vein was derived from intrarenal de novo production . production of plasma angiotensin i was in excess over extraction ( p less than 0.01 ) on the affected side , whereas extraction was in excess over production ( p less than 0.01 ) on the contralateral side . the plasma level of de novo intrarenally produced angiotensin i in the renal vein was seven times higher on the affected side than the contralateral side . this difference was by far too big to be explained by a difference in the transit time of blood between the two kidneys , by an augmented production of angiotensin i in the circulating blood passing through the affected kidney due to the higher level of venous plasma renin activity in that kidney , or by the combination of both . 
on the need for erythropoietin treatment in dialysis patients . a copenhagen city dialysis unit study we evaluated the need for erythropoietin ( epo ) treatment in 134 end-stage renal disease patients assuming a level of hemoglobin below 6 mmol/l ( 9.6 g/dl ) as indication for treatment . 91 patients ( 68 % ) fulfilled this criterion . absolute contraindications in 2 patients were previous thrombotic encephalopathy and refusal of treatment . relative contraindications due to cardiac disease were found in 3 patients . in 15 patients additional treatment was required because of hypertension ( 5 ) or deficiency states ( 10 ) . the implications of elevated serum pth and aluminum overload are discussed . 
magnetic resonance imaging of the bone marrow following treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin in patients with end-stage renal disease . we used magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) to study vertebral bone marrow in hemodialysis patients during treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin ( rhuepo ) . we found changes in t1 relaxation times and image contrast within 14 days after starting treatment , before any response was seen in the hemoglobin concentration in peripheral blood . the increase in t1 relaxation times , together with earlier reported changes observed with localized magnetic resonance spectroscopy , indicate an alteration in cellular composition of the hemopoietic bone marrow with an increase in the amount of hemopoietic active tissue . mri may be a useful , non-invasive way of evaluating bone marrow response to different modes of rhuepo administration and dosage . 
three staged approach to the surgical management of renal cell carcinoma extending into the right atrium . case report . left renal cell carcinoma extending into the right atrium was treated by angioinfarction , removal of right atrial tumour using cardiopulmonary bypass and ten days later abdominal radical nephrectomy and inferior vena cava thrombectomy . twenty four months later the patient remains well with no evidence of tumour recurrence . 
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms . in a series of 517 operations for abdominal aortic aneurysm from 1971 to 1988 there were 45 cases ( 8.7 % ) with an inflammatory aneurysm with a typical thick glistening whitish fibrous layer . almost two-third of the patients had rather severe chronic or acute progressive pain in the abdomen , the back or the flank . unilateral ( 7 ) or bilateral ( 2 ) hydronephrosis due to ureteral compression occurred in 9 patients ( 20 % ) . a diagnosis of inflammatory aneurysm was made preoperatively only in 10 patients . in 8 of the 9 patients with hydronephrosis ureterolysis was done , unilaterally ( 6 ) or bilaterally ( 2 ) . after ureterolysis all had complete resolution of the hydronephrosis . preoperative diagnostic methods are excretory urography , showing medial deviation , ultrasonography and ct-scanning of the abdominal aorta . all patients with an inflammatory aneurysm should undergo aortic replacement to prevent rupture and achieve pain relief . ureterolysis in cases of hydronephrosis is strongly recommended and may be performed safely and with excellent results . 
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic human endocrine tissues . pth-like peptide ( plp ) is produced by tumors commonly associated with hypercalcemia as well as nonneoplastic tissues and several endocrine glands and tumors . to characterize the distribution of plp in human endocrine tissues and tumors , we localized plp in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique with polyclonal antisera . among peptide hormone-producing tissues , plp was identified in nontumorous adenohypophysis and pituitary adenomas ; medullary thyroid carcinomas ; normal , hyperplastic , and adenomatous parathyroids ; adrenal medulla and pheochromocytomas ; normal pancreatic islets ; and endocrine tumors of pancreas , gut , and lung , including small cell carcinomas . in other endocrine tissues plp was identified in nontumorous thyroid follicular epithelium , colloid nodules , and follicular neoplasms ; normal adrenal cortex , adrenocortical adenomas , and carcinomas ; nontumorous testicular leydig cells ; normal ovarian granulosa and thecal cells ; an ovarian thecoma and a granulosa cell tumor ; placental trophoblast ; and decidua . these results demonstrate that plp is localized in many normal and neoplastic endocrine cells , including those not known to influence extracellular calcium homeostasis . the presence of plp in a variety of endocrine tissues suggests that it may play a local physiological role in the growth or function of endocrine cells . 
anti-5 alpha-reductase autoantibodies in the serum of patients with prostatic cancer . human sera were tested for their ability to inhibit 5 alpha-reductase binding of a potent inhibitor of the enzyme . thirty one of 227 serum samples from patients diagnosed or suspected of prostatic cancer had a significant inhibitory activity , whereas 128 serum samples from other patients were inactive . the majority of the inhibitory activity was in the igg fraction purified by chromatography on a protein a-sepharose affinity column and an anti-human igg-agarose column . igg fractions from non-inhibitory sera were inactive . inhibitory igg also inhibited the enzymatic activity of microsomal 5 alpha-reductase from liver , ventral prostate and preputial gland of rat , and liver , prostate , and facial skin of human . the inhibitory igg had no effect on nadh-menadione reductase or 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase . these results suggest that 5 alpha-reductase autoantibodies are present in the blood of some prostatic cancer patients . 
women with preeclampsia have higher plasma endothelin levels than women with normal pregnancies . endothelin , a newly discovered endothelium-derived peptide , has potent vasoactive properties in vivo and in vitro . the actions of endothelin in clinical conditions of hypertension have not yet been defined . this study examined the possible role of endothelin in the vasospasm and hypertension associated with a well-defined syndrome of gestational hypertension , preeclampsia . our results indicate that the concentration of immunoreactive endothelin is elevated significantly in plasma obtained from women with preeclampsia and rapidly returns to a normal pregnancy value within 48 hours of delivery , as predicted by the prompt clinical resolution of this disorder . the findings suggest that endothelin may contribute to the vasospasm associated with this syndrome and lend further support to the involvement of endothelial cells in the pathophysiology of preeclampsia . 
cutaneous horn of the penis : its association with squamous cell carcinoma and hpv-16 infection . cutaneous horns of the penis are rare . including this case , only 19 cases have been reported in the english-language literature . in 37 % of the reported cases a malignant tumor was found beneath the cutaneous horn . our case is remarkable because a stage i squamous cell carcinoma developed on the shaft of the penis of a neonatally circumcised man . human genital carcinoma resulting from a multifactorial process in which " promoting " papillomavirus is an integral element is being increasingly reported . we review the relationship of circumcision to genital human papillomavirus infection and their synergism in the development of squamous cell carcinoma . 
prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infection with a silver oxide-coated urinary catheter : clinical and microbiologic correlates . in a prospective clinical trial involving 482 acutely hospitalized patients , the overall incidence of catheter-associated urinary tract infection ( uti ; 10 % ) was similar in recipients of a silver oxide-coated urinary catheter ( silver catheter ) or a control silicone catheter . however , female sex and absence of antimicrobial use were independently associated with an increased risk of uti . after stratification for these variables , the silver catheter reduced the incidence of uti among women not receiving antimicrobial agents ( 19 % for control catheter vs. 0 for silver catheter , p = .04 ; confidence interval for the difference in incidence , 0.4 % -38 % ) but not in the other subgroups . gram-positive uti was associated with absence of antimicrobial use , the control catheter , and catheter care violations . gram-negative and candidal utis were more common after 7 days of catheterization , and candidal uti was associated with being female and antimicrobial use . these findings demonstrate that several clinical variables influenced the incidence and microbiology of catheter-associated uti and that the silver catheter appeared to prevent uti among women not receiving antimicrobials . 
partial characterization of chlamydia trachomatis isolates resistant to multiple antibiotics . in vitro susceptibility testing was done on urogenital isolates of chlamydia trachomatis from five patients , four of whom were suspected treatment failures . at least one isolate from each patient was resistant to tetracycline at concentrations greater than or equal to micrograms/ml , although less than 1 % of a population of organisms showed high-level resistance . fully resistant populations selected by passage through 8 micrograms/ml tetracycline either died or lost their resistance on further passage in antibiotic-free medium . relatively large inocula were required to demonstrate resistance , and morphology of inclusions was altered at high tetracycline concentrations . the observed resistance may be a new characteristic of the organism or merely newly recognized . isolates resistant to tetracycline were resistant to doxycycline , erythromycin , sulfamethoxazole , and clindamycin but sensitive to rifampin , ciprofloxacin , and ofloxacin . thus , resistance to tetracycline , erythromycin , and clindamycin occurs in c. trachomatis and may be a factor in some treatment failures . 
quantitation of tamm-horsfall protein binding to uropathogenic escherichia coli and lectins . in quantitative experiments using elisa , binding of tamm-horsfall protein ( thp ) to uropathogenic escherichia coli was studied with monoclonal antibody to thp . adherence to e. coli bearing type 1 fimbriae was proportional to thp concentration and size of the bacterial inoculum . type 1 fimbriae-bearing e. coli bound 50 times more thp than did non-type 1-fimbriated or p-fimbriated strains . concanavalin a and wheat germ agglutinin bound thp in a dose-dependent fashion , whereas pokeweed mitogen and vicia villosa b4 isolectin did not . addition of mannose and n-acetylglucosamine reduced adherence of thp to concanavalin a and wheat germ agglutinin by 50 % -80 % . sugar inhibition studies suggested that the fimbrial receptor site for thp has lectin-like properties and that thp binds to fimbriae via its mannose side chains . this quantitative assay is useful for studying the interaction between thp , uroepithelial cells , and bacteria in vitro . 
endolymphatic hydrops precipitated by haemodialysis . we report a case of endolymphatic hydrops preceded by haemodialysis in the contralateral ear of a patient with known meniere 's disease , and discuss the possible mechanism . it is suggested that the sudden decrease of plasma osmolality during haemodialysis acts as a reverse glycerol test . the audiometric and electrophysiological recordings pre - and post-dialysis and the induction of the meniere 's triad of symptoms during dialysis , were strongly indicative of the presence of endolymphatic hydrops . 
screening diabetic patients for microalbuminuria . abnormal rates of urinary albumin excretion have been shown to predict the development of nephropathy and may signal atherosclerotic disease in diabetic patients . this study demonstrated the feasibility of measuring microalbuminuria in diabetic patients from a large family practice population . although only one half of the 473 diabetic patients offered free screening took advantage of the testing , those participating did not differ in terms of sex , race , type of diabetes , mean age , systolic blood pressure , and fasting blood glucose levels from those not electing to participate . over 40 % of those screened had abnormally elevated albumin excretion rates as defined as greater than 0.02 g of albumin per gram of creatinine . those participating in the screening perceived the process as useful and were able to comply with directions for overnight urine collection . results show that screening for microalbuminuria in diabetic patients cared for by family physicians is feasible , simple , and inexpensive . interventions to slow or reverse the progression of abnormal microalbuminuria and future risk for nephropathy in those with diabetes are underway . 
central nervous system involvement in nephropathic cystinosis . nephropathic cystinosis , an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder due to impaired cystine transport , causes damage to multiple organs that results in end-stage renal disease , hypothyroidism , and retinopathy , usually in childhood . dialysis and renal transplantation now frequently enable patients with cystinosis to live into adulthood . examinations at autopsy of a 28-year-old man who died of complications of this disease showed deposits of cystine crystals in multiple organs . there was severe cerebral involvement with multifocal cystic necrosis , dystrophic calcification , spongy change , and vacuolization that had produced profound neurologic deficits . electron microscopy of the brain documented cytoplasmic deposition of cystine crystals in membrane bound vacuoles within the cytoplasm of pericytes and within parenchymal cells of the white matter . while affected patients who have received renal transplants may no longer die from renal failure , serious , potentially life-threatening , neurologic complications of this disorder may supervene . 
treatment of testicular cancer : a new and improved model . testicular cancer has become a model for a curable neoplasm . prior to the advent of cisplatin combination chemotherapy , standard chemotherapy consisted of dactinomycin , alone or in combination with chlorambucil and methotrexate . disseminated germ cell tumors were chemosensitive to these older regimens , with a 50 % objective response rate and a 10 % to 20 % complete remission rate ; however , the cure rate was only 5 % to 10 % . in 1974 , we began our initial cisplatin plus vinblastine plus bleomycin ( pvb ) chemotherapy . thirty-three of 47 patients with disseminated germ cell tumors treated from 1974 to 1976 achieved a complete remission ( cr ) , and an additional five ( 11 % ) were rendered disease-free with post-pvb resection of teratoma or carcinoma . twenty-seven ( 57 % ) of these patients are continuously disease-free with a minimal follow-up of 13 + years . thus , cisplatin-based chemotherapy produced a one-log increase in the cure rate compared with dactinomycin . a subsequent phase iii study performed from 1976 to 1978 demonstrated that the vinblastine dosage could be reduced 25 % from 0.4 mg/kg to 0.3 mg/kg with a reduction in toxicity but without any decrement in therapeutic efficacy . a third-generation pvb study from 1978 to 1981 documented that optimal cure rates were achieved with 12 weeks of induction therapy with pvb and that long-term maintenance therapy with vinblastine was unnecessary . in 1978 , we initiated salvage therapy with cisplatin plus etoposide ( vp-16 ) in patients not cured with pvb , and 25 % of these patients were subsequently cured with this regimen . this represented the first time an adult solid tumor had been cured with a second-line regimen . in 1983 , we began studies with third-line therapy with cisplatin plus ifosfamide combination chemotherapy , and even in this refractory setting , approximately 20 % of patients are curable . from 1981 to 1984 , we compared cisplatin plus vp-16 plus bleomycin ( pvp16b ) with pvb as first-line chemotherapy . there was a significant reduction in neuromuscular toxicity favoring the vp-16 arm , and furthermore , 78 % of these patients were continuously disease-free compared with 66 % with pvb . approximately 75 % of patients with disseminated germ cell tumors will be cured with pvp16b , and an additional 10 % are curable with salvage chemotherapy . this represents the highest cure rate in any adult malignancy . 
acute renal dysfunction during interleukin-2 treatment : suggestion of an intrinsic renal lesion . adoptive immunotherapy with interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells has been effective in treating some advanced malignancies in animals and humans . one complication of this treatment is a reversible , oliguric , acute renal failure , which has been ascribed to renal hypoperfusion and resultant prerenal azotemia . we serially studied renal function in 10 patients receiving high-dose regimens of recombinant interleukin-2 ( ril-2 ) to attempt to delineate further the nature of the renal dysfunction caused by il-2 treatment . renal plasma flow was computed from iodine 131 ( i-131 hippuran ; mediphysics , paramus , nj ) orthoiodohippurate , excretion curves , and glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) was determined by creatinine clearance . studies done prior to and on day 4 of treatment showed that gfr fell in nine of 10 patients , with a mean decrease of 43 % + / - 8 % , and renal plasma flow fell in five of the 10 patients with a mean decrease of 5 % + / - 10 % . the average pretherapy filtration fraction was calculated to be 23 % + / - 1 % and after 4 days of treatment , decreased to a mean value of 15 + / - 2 % . the bun to creatinine ratio also declined in all patients . these findings collectively suggest that il-2 nephrotoxicity may result from an intrarenal defect in addition to the previously described prerenal azotemia . additionally , radionuclide studies of renal function are a reliable and reproducible noninvasive method of assessing these changes in renal function . 
a comparative study of renal scintigraphy and clearance with technetium-99m-mag3 and iodine-123-hippurate in patients with renal disorders . the aim of this study was to compare kit prepared technetium-99m-mercaptoacetyltriglycine ( 99mtc-mag3 ) with our routine radiopharmaceutical , iodine-123-hippurate our routine radiopharmaceutical , iodine-123-hippurate ( [ 123i ] oih ) for renal dynamic scintigraphy . seventeen patients with different nephrologic disorders or hypertension were first studied with oih and then reinvestigated with mag3 2-8 days later . renal mag3 gamma camera images were almost identical with those of oih except for higher ( p less than 0.01 ) liver-to-background ratios at 20 min postinjection , irrespective of kidney function . urinary peristalsis was visible longer and more clearly in the mag3 studies . mag3 and oih renograms showed identical relative kidney uptake ( r = 0.99 ) , but elimination of mag3 from the kidneys was slower ( p less than 0.01 ) . the plasma clearance of mag3 was lower than that of oih , but correlated ( r = 0.92 ) significantly . the plasma distribution volume and content in blood cells was lower ( p less than 0.01 ) , but the binding of mag3 to plasma proteins was higher , 90 % , as compared with 74 % for oih , p less than 0.01 . urinary excretion expressed as a percent of the given dose 60 min after injection was the same for the two substances . thus , there are some significant differences in the renal handling , plasma distribution , and cell penetration between mag3 and [ 123i ] oih . mag3 , however , seems to have particular qualifications as a radionuclide for dynamic renal scintigraphy , especially in patients who require acute investigations or in those with low renal function . 
diagnostic use of angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) - inhibited renal scintigraphy in the identification of selective renal artery stenosis in the presence of multiple renal arteries : a case report . in patients with renovascular hypertension , it is unknown whether the angiotensin converting enzyme - ( ace ) inhibited renal scan will identify stenosis of a segmental branch of a single renal artery or of an accessory artery where multiple renal arteries are present . since multiple renal arteries may be present in approximately 25 % of all individuals , it will be important to establish whether the ace-inhibited renal scan is useful in this population . we report a case of stenosis involving a renal artery in a patient with multiple renal arteries , successfully identified by ace-inhibited renal scintigraphy . 
sexual practices : are physicians addressing the issues ? the literature suggests that prior to 1981 , the only groups concerned with sexual history taking were urologists , psychiatrists , and gynecologists . the appearance of aids , however , has made competency in this area of interviewing essential for all primary care physicians . the teaching of sexual history taking presents a challenge to educators , since it involves all three educational domains -- cognitive , affective , and skills . the authors have developed an approach to teaching sexual history taking to providers in small groups utilizing videotapes that model the content and sequence of questions and confront learners about the fears and the emotional concerns they may have in obtaining these data . 
transient renal acidification defect during acute infantile diarrhea : the role of urinary sodium . we studied urinary acidification daily during the hospital course of 16 infants with acute gastroenteritis and metabolic acidosis . urine ph value on admission was higher than 5.5 in 14 ( 87 % ) patients . we hypothesized that inappropriate urinary acidification was due to sodium deficiency and inadequate sodium delivery to the distal nephron . forty-one urinary samples were collected during metabolic acidosis . the mean ph of 24 urine samples with sodium concentration less than 10 mmol/l was significantly higher than the ph of 17 samples with sodium concentration greater than 10 mmol/l ( 6.04 + / - 0.06 vs 5.19 + / - 0.1 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the urine ratios of titratable acid to creatinine and of total acidity to creatinine were significantly higher in urine samples containing more sodium ( p less than 0.02 ) , whereas the ammonium/creatinine ratio was not . after administration of furosemide or correction of the sodium deficit , appropriate acidification was observed . we conclude that impaired urinary acidification is frequently found during metabolic acidosis in infants with acute gastroenteritis and results from a sodium deficit rather than from transient distal renal tubular acidosis . 
clinicopathologic review of twelve children with nephropathy , wilms tumor , and genital abnormalities ( drash syndrome ) . the clinicopathologic and radiologic features of 12 children with complete and incomplete forms of drash syndrome are reported . their common denominator was a nephropathy . four had the full triad , consisting of nephropathy , wilms tumor , and genital abnormalities ; five had nephropathy and genital abnormalities , and three had nephropathy and wilms tumor . of the 11 children who had proteinuria , eight had the nephrotic syndrome . of the 10 whose condition progressed to end-stage renal failure , seven were less than 3 years of age . the histologic features of wilms tumor were favorable in all seven children , and the tumor was bilateral in three . of the nine patients who had genital abnormalities , eight had 46 , xy karyotype and either ambiguous genitalia ( six patients ) or normal female phenotype ( two ) . one other patient had a normal 46 , xx female karyotype and phenotype but had both mullerian and wolffian structures and a streak ovary . nine patients had a distinct pelvicaliceal abnormality not previously reported as a feature of this syndrome . other congenital abnormalities were aniridia , mental retardation , deafness , nystagmus , and cleft palate . this syndrome must be considered in any infant with unexplained nephropathy , particularly in young phenotypic female infants and in those children with ambiguous genitalia or wilms tumor with an early presentation . 
two urogenital sinus syndromes . interstitial cystitis and focal vulvitis . forty-six young women had unusual and presumably noninfectious disorders of unknown etiology involving tissues derived from the embryonic urogenital sinus ( urogenital sinus syndromes ) . ten women had interstitial cystitis , and 25 had focal vulvitis . eleven women had both interstitial cystitis and focal vulvitis . the affected groups were similar in demographic and other characteristics . most were white and in their mid-20s . both unusual conditions occurred in the same woman more often than could be expected by chance . this observation suggests that some common , perhaps autoimmune mechanism may be involved in the etiology of these syndromes . 
stress incontinence and low urethral closure pressure . correlation of preoperative urethral hypermobility with successful suburethral sling procedures . forty-eight women with genuine stress incontinence and low urethral closure pressure were treated with a suburethral sling procedure using polytetrafluoroethylene . all patients underwent a preoperative clinical evaluation and multichannel urodynamic testing . the clinical examination included a " q-tip " test to determine the presence or absence of urethral hypermobility . urethral hypermobility was defined as a maximal angle change of greater than or equal to 30 degrees from the horizontal , measured during straining or coughing in the lithotomy position . thirty-four patients underwent repeat multichannel urodynamic testing three months postoperatively to determine the objective surgical success . ninety-three percent of patients ( 27/29 ) with a positive preoperative q-tip test were cured . of patients with a negative preoperative q-tip test , only 20 % ( 1/5 ) were cured . preoperative urethral hypermobility was a good prognostic indicator of operative success when a suburethral sling procedure was used to treat genuine stress incontinence and low urethral closure pressure . 
inhibition of invasion of invasive human bladder carcinoma cells by protein kinase c inhibitor staurosporine . to study the effect of the protein kinase c ( pkc ) inhibitor staurosporine on invasion , we selected the invasive human bladder carcinoma cell line ej . total pkc activity was more than twofold higher in the ej cells than in rt4 cells ( superficial human bladder carcinoma cells ) , which do not pass through an artificial basement membrane . there was more pkc activity in the cytosol than in the membrane of ej cells . staurosporine , at nontoxic concentrations , inhibited the invasion of ej cells through an artificial basement membrane in a dose-dependent manner . staurosporine caused a dose-dependent inhibition of cell motility but did not inhibit cell attachment . staurosporine represents a new agent for the inhibition of tumor cell invasion and may prove useful in studying the mechanisms responsible for this phenomenon . 
rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure associated with cocaine abuse . cocaine abuse has emerged as a major public health problem among young adults . illicit use of cocaine has been associated with an increasing array of medical complications . both traumatic and nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis , often complicated by acute renal failure , has recently been described following cocaine abuse . the present report describes our experience with 15 such patients and serves to further define the spectrum of muscle injury associated with cocaine abuse ranging from the incidental finding of elevated serum levels of muscle enzymes to acute renal failure . those patients who developed renal failure experienced more severe rhabdomyolysis in association with trauma , seizures or hyperpyrexia . 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy in invasive bladder cancer : the evolving role of surgery . the role of an operation in patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy for clinically localized but invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder currently is evolving . an operation is essential for case selection and evaluation of local response but it also contributes to bladder preservation and survival . the procedure that is necessary to select for and assess response to chemotherapy may itself alter the actual or proceed to evolution of invasive bladder cancer . neoadjuvant chemotherapy is a reasonable therapeutic strategy in selected patients but it remains to be seen whether the results will prove to be superior to those achieved with standard endoscopic and open operations . 
surgical treatment of renal artery stenosis after failed percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . from 1980 to 1989 , 53 patients with renovascular hypertension underwent surgical treatment after initial unsuccessful management with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty . renal artery stenosis was due to fibrous dysplasia in 17 patients and atherosclerosis in 36 . the reasons for failure of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty were inability to dilate the stenotic lesion ( 32 patients ) , acute renal arterial occlusion ( 2 ) or dissection ( 8 ) from attempted percutaneous transluminal angioplasty , and the development of recurrent renal artery stenosis after initially successful percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( 11 ) . three patients underwent nephrectomy due to the finding of a nonviable kidney at operation . successful surgical revascularization was achieved in 50 patients . there was no significant fibrosis or inflammation around the previously dilated renal artery . percutaneous transluminal angioplasty necessitated performance of a more complicated revascularization operation in only 1 patient . if the kidney is viable at operation in patients treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty renovascular reconstruction is not more technically difficult than when done primarily and the same excellent results can be achieved . 
incidence and properties of renal masses and asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma detected by abdominal ultrasonography . renal ultrasonography was performed in 45,905 adults , including 41,364 without any signs suggesting urinary tract malignancies , 1,667 with microscopic hematuria only and 2,874 with some signs of malignancy . renal lesions were found in 355 adults ( 0.858 % ) in the asymptomatic , 39 ( 2.3 % ) in the microscopic hematuria and 75 ( 2.6 % ) in the symptomatic groups , respectively . renal cell carcinoma was found in 35 ( 7.5 % ) lesions : 19 ( 5.4 % ) in the asymptomatic , none in the microscopic hematuria and 16 ( 21.3 % ) in the symptomatic groups . a total of 47 patients , including 12 other renal cell carcinoma patients transferred from related hospitals , was grouped into 28 without and 19 with symptoms . primary tumor size and clinical stages were significantly smaller and lower , respectively , in the asymptomatic group than in the symptomatic group . radical nephrectomy was performed in all but 2 asymptomatic patients . the 5-year survival rates after nephrectomy were 94.7 and 60.9 % for the asymptomatic and symptomatic groups , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) . the results indicate that ultrasonography is a useful tool to detect low stage asymptomatic renal cell carcinoma at low cost . 
magnetic resonance imaging for assessment of vena caval tumor thrombi : a comparative study with venacavography and computerized tomography scanning . we assessed the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in demonstrating the presence and extent of vena caval tumor thrombi . the study group included 20 patients with vena caval thrombi from renal cell carcinoma ( 18 ) , renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma ( 1 ) and adrenal pheochromocytoma ( 1 ) . preoperative diagnostic studies included magnetic resonance imaging in all patients , inferior venacavography in 16 and computerized tomography scanning in 15 . all patients underwent an operation in which the presence and extent of the vena caval thrombus were confirmed . magnetic resonance imaging accurately delineated the presence and extent of the thrombus in all 20 patients ( 100 % ) . venacavography was accurate in 15 patients ( 94 % ) but 8 ( 50 % ) required a retrograde and antegrade study . computerized tomography scanning demonstrated the presence of a tumor thrombus in all 15 patients but accurately delineated the cephalad extent of the thrombus in only 5 ( 33 % ) . in patients with vena caval tumor thrombi magnetic resonance imaging can provide accurate information regarding the extent of vena caval involvement while avoiding the need for an invasive contrast imaging study . 
extravesical versus leadbetter-politano ureteroneocystostomy : a comparison of urological complications in 320 renal transplants . the urological complications of 320 consecutive renal transplants performed at our institution between october 17 , 1985 and november 10 , 1989 are reviewed . the leadbetter-politano technique of ureteroneocystostomy was used in the first 160 patients ( group 1 ) and an anterior extravesical technique modified from the methods of witzel , sampson and lich was performed in the second 160 patients ( group 2 ) . urological complications occurred in 15 patients ( 9.4 % ) in group 1 and 6 ( 3.7 % ) in group 2 ( p = 0.04 ) . ureterovesical junction obstruction occurred in 6 patients ( 3.7 % ) in group 1 and 1 ( 0.6 % ) in group 2 ( p = 0.05 ) . complications of leakage , ureteral necrosis and ureteral stricture were comparable in the 2 groups . therefore , we advocate the use of the anterior extravesical technique over leadbetter-politano ureteral reimplantation based on the lower incidence of urological complications and various technical advantages , including less operative time , avoidance of a separate cystotomy , less hematuria and ability to use short donor ureters . 
ureterosigmoidostomy : long-term results , risk of carcinoma and etiological factors for carcinogenesis . we followed postoperatively 75 patients who underwent ureterosigmoidostomy between 1942 and 1987 . of the patients 30 were asked to undergo routine examination , including fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy with biopsy and analysis of a urine-feces slurry for nitrate , nitrite and nitrosamines in comparison to 20 control volunteers . after a mean observation of 14 years 7 months ( 1 to 46 years ) 64.5 % of the patients had bilaterally normal kidneys without any previous complications , 77.5 % of the renal units being normal . sigmoidoscopic biopsy revealed 3 carcinomas at the ureterocolonic junction resulting in an 8.5 to 10.5-fold increased risk of colon carcinoma compared to the general population . the excretion of nitrite and n-nitrosamines was increased , and nitrate excretion was decreased compared to healthy control volunteers , suggesting endogenous formation of nitrosamines by bacterially reduced nitrate and endogenous amines . the urological long-term results of ureterosigmoidostomy are similar to those of conduits . however , the increased incidence of colon carcinoma is not yet proved to be higher than in conduits . 
primary adenocarcinoma of the bladder : favorable prognostic significance of deoxyribonucleic acid diploidy measured by flow cytometry . flow cytometric nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy analysis was done successfully on 38 specimens of primary bladder adenocarcinoma treated between 1954 and 1985 . of the specimens 10 ( 26 % ) were deoxyribonucleic acid diploid , 8 ( 21 % ) were tetraploid and 20 ( 53 % ) were aneuploid . distribution of ploidy patterns between the 14 histological low grade and 24 high grade tumors was similar . of 38 tumors 35 ( 92 % ) showed muscle invasion . one tumor arose in a previously exstrophied bladder , 10 were of urachal origin and 27 arose in an anatomically normal bladder . of the urachal origin tumors 80 % were deoxyribonucleic acid aneuploid . at 5 and 10 years after diagnosis 80 and 70 % , respectively , of the patients with diploid tumors were free of disease . by contrast , at 5 and 10 years after treatment only 20 and 12 % , respectively , of the patients with nondiploid tumors have not had disease progression ( p less than 0.001 log-rank test ) . none of the 6 patients with diploid , high grade , high stage , muscle invasive tumors had subsequent progression . in contrast , 16 of 17 patients ( 94 % ) with high grade , high stage , nondiploid tumors had either local or distant tumor recurrence ( p less than 0.0005 ) . nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy pattern appears to be the most significant prognostic information currently available to stratify expected prognosis for patients with muscle invasive adenocarcinoma of the bladder . this test probably should be a standard tool in the clinical management of patients with this rare bladder malignancy . 
perioperative methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin and cisplatin ( m-vac ) for poor risk transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder : an eastern cooperative oncology group pilot study . a total of 18 patients with locally advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder underwent 2 preoperative cycles of chemotherapy with methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin and cisplatin followed by radical cystectomy and 2 postoperative cycles of chemotherapy . radical cystectomy was performed in 17 of 18 patients ( 94 % ) with a pathological partial response in 3 ( 17 % ) and a pathological complete response in 2 ( 11 % ) , for an over-all response rate of 28 % ( 95 % confidence limits 10 to 53 % ) . at 23-month median followup 9 patients ( 50 % ) remained without evidence of recurrent disease , while 9 ( 50 % ) died of metastatic bladder cancer . average relative dose intensity of all therapy given was 78 % . hematological toxicity was moderate , with no septic deaths or bleeding complications . however , 4 thromboembolic events occurred . while downstaging of the primary bladder tumor can occur with this perioperative schedule our results were not as impressive as some previously reported findings . the incidence of thromboembolic events is worrisome . 
local recurrence and survival following nerve-sparing radical cystoprostatectomy . from march 1982 through july 1988 , 76 men underwent nerve-sparing radical cystoprostatectomy for carcinoma of the bladder at our hospital . of the 76 patients 2 ( 2.6 % ) had positive surgical margins ( dome of the bladder and left ureter ) and neither had positive margins at the site of nerve-sparing modifications . of 3 patients ( 3.9 % ) who had local recurrence none had positive surgical margins . the 5-year actuarial local recurrence rate is 7.5 % . thirteen of 76 patients ( 17 % ) died of transitional cell carcinoma and 7 ( 9 % ) died of other causes , while 53 ( 70 % ) are alive without evidence of disease with a mean followup of 38.4 months . the 5-year actuarial survival rates are 64 % over-all , 68 % without disease and 78 % disease-specific . of the 42 evaluable men who underwent cystoprostatectomy alone 27 ( 64 % ) are potent , compared to 2 of the 12 men ( 17 % ) who also underwent urethrectomy . we conclude that the nerve-sparing modifications do not compromise cancer control , that local recurrence and survival rates are at least comparable to those achieved with standard radical cystoprostatectomy , and that it is possible to preserve potency in most men undergoing this procedure . 
recurrent urethral stricture disease managed by clean intermittent self-catheterization . we studied 41 patients with urethral stricture who had failed at least 1 operation , and were being maintained with filiform and follower dilation every 6 to 12 weeks . the patients were instructed in clean intermittent self-catheterization with a 16f red rubber catheter , which was performed every 1 to 30 days . followup from 9 to 36 months revealed excellent compliance and average peak uroflow rates increased from 5.5 cc per second before dilation to 17.1 cc per second at the last followup visit . clean intermittent self-catheterization is a simple method to maintain a patent urethra and obviates the need for further operations or painful dilations . 
arteriographically determined occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous bed in impotent patients following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma . to determine the presence , location and pattern of arterial occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed in impotent men following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma , we reviewed the selective internal pudendal arteriograms of 20 patients with a history of blunt perineal and 7 with blunt pelvic trauma who had immediate development of impotence . arteriographic studies of 104 other impotent patients also were reviewed and compared . patients with persistent impotence immediately after blunt pelvic and perineal trauma had significantly different patterns of arteriographically demonstrated occlusive disease within the distal hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed consistent with the site of the traumatic injury . those who sustained blunt pelvic trauma and complained of immediate impotence revealed arterial occlusive lesions mainly in the internal pudendal , common penile , cavernous and dorsal arteries . the incidence of arterial lesions in the distal internal pudendal or common penile artery was significantly higher ( p less than 0.01 ) in patients with blunt pelvic trauma ( 92 % ) than in those with blunt perineal trauma ( 35 % ) . patients who sustained blunt perineal trauma and complained of immediate impotence demonstrated a more focal pattern of pathological arterial occlusion primarily in the cavernous and dorsal arteries . the incidence of a solitary arterial lesion in the cavernous artery without proximal disease was significantly higher ( p less than 0.05 ) in patients with blunt perineal trauma ( 48 % ) than in those with blunt pelvic trauma ( 8 % ) . it is hypothesized that blunt trauma without immediate impotence may be a potential risk factor for later development of arterial vasculogenic impotence , and that unrecognized or seemingly innocuous trauma may be a factor in cases of idiopathic impotence . patients without trauma and with vascular risk factors have a more diffuse pattern of arteriographically demonstrated arterial lesions . 
patient acceptance of and satisfaction with an external negative pressure device for impotence . patient acceptance of and satisfaction with an external negative pressure device as a treatment for impotence were retrospectively analyzed among 100 men . the over-all satisfaction rate was 68 % . reasons for dissatisfaction with and discontinuing the use of the device included premature loss of penile tumescence and rigidity , pain or discomfort either during application of suction or during intercourse and inconvenience . negative pressure therapy is an effective treatment for impotence of various etiologies and should be among treatment options offered to the impotent patient . 
testicular carcinoma in patients positive and at risk for human immunodeficiency virus . patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome are at increased risk for certain malignancies . because acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and testicular cancer affect primarily young men , the potential complications that acquired immunodeficiency syndrome might impose raise significant concern . to address this question we performed a retrospective review of all cases of testicular cancer during an 11-year period . of 140 patients 6 had human immunodeficiency virus infection and 7 were from human immunodeficiency virus risk groups . all cases were either stage i or ii disease with seminoma in 8 , teratocarcinoma in 3 , embryonal cell carcinoma in 1 and teratoma in 1 . the clinical presentations of these patients were comparable to those of patients without human immunodeficiency virus risk factors . the majority of the patients received standard therapy , including orchiectomy followed by lymphadenectomy , radiation therapy or chemotherapy depending on stage and pathological subtype . patients tolerated therapy well with only 1 course of radiation therapy complicated by pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . all patients achieved complete remission and none died of testicular cancer . since treatment of these patients may worsen the immunosuppression , surveillance is recommended after orchiectomy for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients with stage i disease . however , the majority of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection should receive standard therapy . 
clinical stage 1 testicular cancer : the role of modified retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy . a total of 85 patients underwent modified retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy for clinical stage i nonseminomatous germ cell tumor of the testis from 1982 to 1989 . the technique was a modified bilateral dissection via a thoracoabdominal approach . a full bilateral dissection was done above the level of the inferior mesenteric artery but unilateral dissection was performed below the inferior mesenteric artery using a template method . of the 85 patients 64 had pathological stage a and 21 had stage b1 disease . relapses have occurred in 4 of 64 stage a cancer patients ( 6 % ) and 3 of 21 stage b1 cancer patients ( 15 % ) . antegrade ejaculation was preserved without pharmacological therapy in 75 of 85 patients ( 88 % ) and 5 others were converted to antegrade ejaculation with imipramine . therefore , 80 of 85 patients ( 94 % ) have recovered antegrade ejaculation . with a median followup of 38 months 7 relapses have been noted . we conclude that modified retroperitoneal lymph node dissection allows for preservation of ejaculation , decreases concern about retroperitoneal understaging and represents the preferred alternative to surveillance protocols for patients with low stage testicular cancer . 
erythrocyte polyamine levels in human prostatic carcinoma . abnormally high red blood cell polyamine levels were found in benign prostatic hyperplasia and in prostatic adenocarcinoma patients . in prostatic adenocarcinoma patients a relationship was noted between the importance of red blood cell spermidine and spermine concentrations , and the clinical stage of the disease ( whitmore classification ) . considering prostatic adenocarcinoma patient populations , patients with metastases ( groups 3 and 4 ) statistically differed from those without metastases ( group 2 ) . furthermore , red blood cell polyamine level determination discriminated patients in the hormonal escape group ( group 4 ) from those usually considered as hormone responsive ( groups 2 and 3 ) . no statistically significant correlation was observed between red blood cell polyamine levels and usual tumor markers ( prostatic acid phosphatase and prostate specific antigen ) . these results confirmed that red blood cell polyamine levels must be considered as a circulating index of cell proliferation that might be of clinical importance during the long-term followup and treatment of prostatic adenocarcinoma patients . 
the relationship of prostate specific antigen levels and residual tumor volume in stage a prostate cancer . preoperative serum prostate specific antigen correlates well with morphometrically determined prostate tumor volume in prostatectomy specimens . however , since prostate specific antigen is produced by hyperplastic as well as malignant prostatic epithelium , the contribution of hyperplastic epithelium ( benign prostatic hyperplasia ) to serum prostate specific antigen interferes with the ability of serum prostate specific antigen to predict tumor volume in individual patients . we wondered if the removal of benign prostatic hyperplasia tissue would increase the correlation between prostate specific antigen and tumor volume , and , thus , make prostate specific antigen a more accurate predictor of residual cancer volume after transurethral resection of the prostate . a total of 67 patients with clinical stage a cancer underwent radical retropubic prostatectomy ( 22 , or 33 % , with stage a1 and 45 , or 67 % , with stage a2 disease ) , and had pre-radical prostatectomy measurement of serum prostate specific antigen and morphometric determination of residual cancer volume in the radical prostatectomy specimen . the correlation between serum prostate specific antigen and residual cancer volume for all 67 patients was 0.66 , and for stages a1 and a2 disease it was 0.64 and 0.70 , respectively . all stage a1 cancer patients with a serum prostate specific antigen value of 1 ng . / ml . or less had residual tumor volumes of less than 0.5 cc and all stage a cancer patients with a serum prostate specific antigen value of more than 10 ng . / ml . had residual tumor volumes of greater than 0.5 cc . of the patients 51 % had levels of 1 to 10 ng . / ml . and serum prostate specific antigen was not useful to predict residual tumor volume in this group . serum prostate specific antigen measurements may be helpful in stage a1 cancer patients with levels of 1 ng . / ml . or less , or greater than 10 ng . / ml . in choosing the most appropriate therapy . 
prostate specific antigen for assessing response to ketoconazole and prednisone in patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer . serial prostate specific antigen levels were assessed in 15 patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer treated with ketoconazole and prednisone . of the men 12 ( 80 % ) with continually increasing prostate specific antigen levels before treatment had a decrease in prostate specific antigen with a median duration of response of 3 months . three patients ( 20 % ) had a prolonged response ( greater than or equal to 8 months ) as seen by a persistently decreasing prostate specific antigen and improvement in bone pain . there appears to be a small subgroup of patients with progressive prostate cancer despite androgen ablation who will benefit from ketoconazole and glucocorticoid treatment . the use of serial prostate specific antigen levels appears to help define this subgroup and avoid the need for multiple radiological procedures to assess response . 
radical prostatectomy for clinical stage t1-2n0m0 prostatic adenocarcinoma : long-term results . a total of 441 stage t1-2n0m0 and 11 stage t1-2n0m0 cancer patients with an elevated acid phosphatase level only , and 18 stage t1-2n + m0 cancer patients underwent radical prostatectomy . analysis of the 441 stage t1-2n0m0 cancer patients demonstrated that failure and survival were a function of the disease being organ-confined , specimen-confined or margin-positive , with 10-year failure rates of 12 , 30 and 60 % , respectively . of the patients with positive margins 44 were and 79 were not irradiated postoperatively . postoperative radiation produced no survival advantage . no difference in interval to failure or of survival could be identified between 105 patients whose disease was diagnosed by transurethral resection and 328 who had a palpable abnormality . eleven patients had negative bone and node findings but they had an elevated acid phosphatase level . all 8 patients not treated with immediate androgen deprivation failed within 36 months . 
urinary excretion of tamm-horsfall protein in women with recurrent urinary tract infections . since ms-fimbriated bacteria adhere to tamm-horsfall protein , it has been suggested that tamm-horsfall protein may trap urinary pathogens and prevent them from colonizing the mucosal surfaces of the urinary tract . to test the hypothesis that low urinary tamm-horsfall protein excretion rates predispose to urinary tract infection we obtained serial urine samples from 17 women with and 18 without a history of recurrent urinary tract infection . none of the women had known structural abnormalities of the urinary tract . concentrations of tamm-horsfall protein in urine were measured with a sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method . on the average , 3 urine samples per person collected within 3 to 6 months were analyzed . the mean tamm-horsfall protein excretion of women with recurrent urinary tract infection was 57.0 mg . / l. and that of controls was 66.3 mg . / l. ; this difference was not statistically significant . the mean coefficient of variation was 44.2 and 62.1 % , respectively . we conclude that urinary tamm-horsfall protein concentration is not significantly decreased in women with recurrent urinary tract infection compared with controls , and that excretion varies widely in repeat samples obtained from the same individual . 
enveloping the bladder with displacement of flap of the rectus abdominis muscle for the treatment of neurogenic bladder . neurogenic bladder is a frequent occurrence . a new surgical technique has been designed and was used successfully in 18 patients with ideal results . the key point of the operation is to turn over a flap of rectus abdominis muscle to envelop the bladder . contraction of the muscle flap and the abdominal muscles would enhance voiding ability . in the meantime , the bladder is displaced forward and the resultant change in the bladder-posterior urethral angle also favors voiding . since the bladder is near the anterior abdominal wall manual compression during voiding is made easier . all of these advantages greatly facilitate voiding . 
mohan 's urethral valvotome : a new instrument . electrothermic fulguration of posterior urethral valves with a resectoscope is difficult in newborns , especially in small for gestation date and premature newborns because of a small caliber urethra . this difficulty has prompted the innovation of the valvotome described . the outer diameter of the valvotome is 3 mm . and it can be easily introduced without stretching the urethra . this instrument has been used successfully in 8 patients to date . patient age ranged from 3 days to 3 1/2 years with varying degrees of hydronephrosis and hydroureter . all patients have a good urinary stream with regression of the hydronephrosis and hydroureter . 
the urethral plug : a new treatment modality for genuine urinary stress incontinence in women . a new modality , the urethral plug , was used to treat 22 women with genuine urinary stress incontinence . the plug is made of thermoplastic elastomer ( kraton g ) , and consists of a meatal plate , a soft stalk and 1 or 2 spheres along the stalk . the spheres were located according to the result of the urethral pressure profile . the midpoint of the proximal sphere was placed at the bladder neck and the distal sphere was placed just above the maximum urethral pressure point . at voiding the plug was removed and afterwards a new plug was inserted . the plug with 2 spheres was tested in week 1 ( period 1 ) and the plug with only the distal sphere was tested in week 2 ( period 2 ) . a total of 22 patients completed period 1 . eight patients did not complete period 2 , mostly due to either unchanged incontinence during period 1 or a repeated loss of the plug with 1 sphere . in periods 1 and 2 , 73 and 79 % of the patients were subjectively and objectively continent or improved . a total of 14 patients completed both periods . eight patients preferred the plug with 2 spheres , 1 preferred the other plug and 5 had no preference . the side effects were few . this preliminary study shows that the urethral plug seems to be a promising alternative treatment for female genuine urinary stress incontinence . 
urinary retention due to sacral myeloradiculitis : a clinical and neurophysiological study . we report 5 cases of sacral myeloradiculitis presenting with transient urinary retention . neurophysiological testing , including bulbocavernosus reflex , pudendal evoked response and external anal sphincter electromyography , was performed . parasympathetic pelvic nerves , pudendal nerves as well as the spinal cord seem to be involved to various degrees in this infrequent disorder . 
long-term urinary continence and renal function in neonates with posterior urethral valves . posterior urethral valves are known to be associated with considerable morbidity and mortality especially in the neonate . recently the role of bladder dysfunction in the pathophysiology of renal function impairment and urinary incontinence after valve ablation has been questioned . from 1976 to 1986 we treated 50 male newborns with posterior urethral valves at our institution . initial treatment in all cases consisted of bladder drainage by a urethral catheter , and correction of existing fluid and electrolyte abnormalities . subsequent treatment was dictated by the degree of upper tract abnormalities and it included valve ablation alone in 24 patients , vesicostomy and later valve ablation in 8 , valve ablation and later upper tract reconstruction in 14 and cutaneous ureterostomy in 4 . followup ranges from 2 to 12 years ( mean 6.8 ) . long-term renal functional impairment was related to the serum creatinine at age 1 year . if the serum creatinine was below 1.0 mg . % all patients ( 31 ) had normal values at long-term followup and if it was greater than 1.0 mg . % ( 19 ) then only 7 patients had normal values at followup . urinary continence was assessed in 42 patients and it was normal in 34 ( 81 % ) . the etiology of incontinence in the remaining 8 patients was bladder dysfunction in 6 and sphincter incompetence in 2 . those patients with urinary incontinence also had a high incidence of upper tract abnormalities ( 6 of 8 , 75 % ) compared to continent valve patients ( 10 of 34 , 29 % ) . 
the management of posterior urethral valves by initial vesicostomy and delayed valve ablation . we managed 32 neonates and infants with temporary vesicostomy and delayed valve ablation . the criterion on which successful management was gauged was estimated creatinine clearance . renal failure or death occurred in 30 % of the patients and 7 % required transplantation . there was no apparent difference between our patients managed initially with vesicostomy and other series managed initially with valve ablation in preventing the complications of posterior urethral valves . 
pheochromocytoma in the pediatric age group : the prostate -- an unusual location . pheochromocytomas of the prostate are rare , with only 3 cases in adults reported in the literature . we present the case of an 8-year-old boy with a pheochromocytoma of the prostate and a second tumor in the region of the left internal iliac artery . 
massive hemorrhage from an arterioureteral fistula associated with chronic renal transplant failure . a case of arterioureteral fistula from the graft artery stump of a failed transplant and the native ureter is reported . this case illustrates one of the possible complications of graft anastomosis . the etiological factors involved in the formation of the aneurysm and eventually the fistula are discussed . 
cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic pyelitis and ureteritis associated with cystitis in marrow transplantation . a 29-year-old woman suffered fatal hemorrhagic pyelitis , ureteritis and cystitis after receiving 4,800 mg . / m. 2 cyclophosphamide in preparation for marrow transplantation despite intravenous hydration and a foley catheter . cyclophosphamide-induced urothelial damage is not limited to the bladder and upper tract monitoring also is necessary . 
de novo carcinoma of the lower urinary tract in renal allograft recipients . immunocompetence has been postulated as an important defense against the progression of urothelial carcinoma . three cases of de novo lower urinary tract carcinoma in renal transplant recipients demonstrated the potential for unusually rapid urothelial extension and invasion in chronically immunosuppressed patients . two patients had a history of perineal condyloma acuminata ; tumors from 1 of these harbored the genetic sequences of human papillomavirus type 6 . one patient had multiple manifestations of cyclophosphamide-related urothelial injury , including bladder carcinoma . treatment of 2 patients culminated in a radical operation during which the remaining native urinary system was resected completely , with sacrifice of the allograft kidney in 1 and diversion into an ileal conduit in 1 . the remaining patient underwent urethrectomy and partial cystectomy with a sigmoid conduit . 
polyarteritis nodosa masquerading as a primary testicular neoplasm : a case report and review of the literature . we report a case of polyarteritis nodosa presenting as a mass in the testis mimicking a neoplasm . the diagnosis was confirmed by radical orchiectomy . this is an unusual presentation of this systemic disease . we discuss the physical findings , ultrasonographic features and pathological findings , as well as review the literature for previous similar cases . 
burkitt 's lymphoma of the testicle : report of 2 cases occurring in elderly patients . burkitt 's lymphoma is rare in patients older than 50 years and almost never presents as a testicular tumor . we report 2 cases of primary burkitt 's lymphoma of the testicle in men 68 and 79 years old . in 1 man the extragonadal tumor had a rapid and lasting response to combination chemotherapy . the cases are of interest for the unusual presentation of the disease and for the possibility to control burkitt 's lymphoma in older patients without undue toxicity . the management of testicular lymphoma requires radical orchiectomy and prophylactic irradiation of the contralateral testis . chemotherapy is indicated for advanced disease and may prevent relapses in patients with early disease . the role of central nervous system prophylaxis is controversial . 
retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in malignant mesothelioma of tunica vaginalis testis . a case of metastatic mesothelioma of the tunica vaginalis testis in a 57-year-old man is reported . clinicopathological findings and treatment options are reviewed . 
mechanical properties of the urethra in healthy and stress incontinent females : dynamic measurements in the resting urethra . the relationship between pressure and cross-sectional area in the resting urethra during its inflation and deflation was examined in 30 healthy females and in 30 patients with genuine stress incontinence ( gsi ) . measurements were performed at the bladder neck , in the high-pressure zone and distally in the urethra . the mechanical properties of the urethra were found to vary significantly as a function of time after induction of a cross-sectional area ( stress episode ) in both groups of women . the pattern of response of the urethra showed significant differences between normals and gsi particularly during dynamic conditions . our results indicate that mechanical laxity of the urethra at the bladder neck and midurethrally especially at dynamic events ( stress episodes ) is of pathophysiological importance in gsi . 
determination of norepinephrine levels in the adult human prostate . tissue levels of norepinephrine were measured in prostate tissue from 24 men ranging in age between 41 and 83 years . prostatic tissue was obtained from men with subtle palpable prostate nodules undergoing transperineal needle biopsy . none of the patients were shown to have histologic evidence of adenocarcinoma . the severity of the symptoms of prostatism was evaluated prospectively using a standardized micturition symptom score questionnaire . norepinephrine levels were quantified using a sensitive radioenzymatic assay ( rea ) . overall , the prostates contained relatively high levels of norepinephrine ( 1666 + / - 124 ng . / gm . ) . inverse correlations were observed between tissue norepinephrine levels and severity of symptoms of prostatism ( r = -0.58 ; p = 0.003 ) ; age ( r = -0.53 ; p = .008 ) ; and prostate size ( r = -0.48 ; p = .02 ) . norepinephrine levels were also measured in tissue specimens obtained from men undergoing enucleation prostatectomy and transurethral resection of the prostate ( turp ) . the level of norepinephrine in these prostatectomy specimens ( 115 ng . / gm . ) was only 14 % the level of the prostate biopsy specimens . the relatively low level of norepinephrine in the specimens obtained from patients with symptoms necessitating prostatectomy provides further evidence that norepinephrine levels are inversely related to the degree of symptomatic bladder outlet obstruction . 
time-course of alterations of bladder function following acetone-induced cystitis . although chemical cystitis is known clinically to cause decreased bladder function , there are few experimental studies on the progression of , and recovery from chemical cystitis . mature male rabbits underwent intravesical instillation of 50 % acetone solution through a urethral catheter . micturition profiles showed a marked decrease of the mean and maximal micturition volume and an increase in number of micturitions as early as one day after treatment . the micturition profile gradually normalized between four and eight weeks after instillation . in vivo cystometry showed a very small bladder capacity and low compliance during the first week following instillation , and gradually recovered to control levels by four weeks . functional studies using the in vitro whole bladder model showed a significant decrease in the ability of the bladder to generate pressure and to empty at three days after instillation . these parameters recovered partially by two weeks , and completely by four weeks . chemical cystitis induced by intravesical acetone instillation resulted in a severe decrease in the bladder function , i.e. contracted bladder with low compliance and poor ability to generate pressure and empty . however , these changes were reversible within the two month period of study . 
effects of intracavernosal trazodone hydrochloride : animal and human studies . trazodone hydrochloride is an oral antidepressant agent which has been associated with the improvement of erections in impotent men and the development of prolonged erections or priapism in potent men . an in vivo study in animal and human subjects was performed to gain experience with the effect of intracavernosal trazodone . in the anesthetized new zealand white rabbit , intracavernosal trazodone or its major metabolite m-chlorophenylpiperazine ( m-cpp ) produced full penile erection in 76 % and 84 % of animals studied respectively with doses ranging from one to 15 mg . on the other hand , intracavernosal administration of five mg . papaverine resulted in a prolonged erection in 90 % of animals studied . in 13 selected volunteer patients , intracavernosal trazodone caused tumescence but not full penile erection with corporal body pressures of 28.2 + / - 5.8 mm . hg . intracavernosal papaverine or papaverine and phentolamine in these subjects resulted in significantly higher corporal body pressures of 58 + / - 18 mm . hg ( p less than .05 ) . intracavernosal administration of alpha adrenoceptor agonists but not normal saline resulted in complete detumescence of trazodone - or m-cpp-induced prolonged erection in the animal studies . intracavernosal trazodone results in erectile activity that appears in part based on its local alpha blocking activity but like other intracavernosal alpha-blocking agents is not as effective in initiating penile erections as are intracavernosal agents that directly induce smooth muscle relaxation . 
long term effects of gastrocystoplasty in rats . twenty prepubescent rats underwent microsurgical gastrocystoplasty by a technique which is described . an equal number of control rats had their bladders opened and closed . rats were sacrificed at 16 to 18 months postoperatively . there were no differences in final weight , serum electrolytes , or renal function between the two groups . prominent histopathologic changes of the bladder occurred in the gastrocystoplasty group . these changes included papillomas present in five of the 15 rats surviving long term . no significant changes occurred in the bladders of the control group of rats . possible etiologies and the significance of the rats . possible etiologies and the significance of the gastrocystoplasty related lesions are discussed . 
hyperfiltration-induced renal injury in normal man : myth or reality . current knowledge fails to support the notion that adaptive hyperfiltration of the remnant kidney after donor nephrectomy is deleterious . rather than being maladaptive , hyperfiltration appropriately compensates for the loss of functional renal mass . accordingly , most kidney donors can be expected to maintain a stable level of renal function without proteinuria or hypertension . essential to this is proper selection of donors for nephrectomy and exclusion of high risk potential donors , bearing in mind the fact that apparently healthy , asymptomatic relatives of end stage renal disease patients are prone to the same disease processes that inflict the general population and have a higher risk of underlying renal disease . 
fatal sepsis following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin administration for bladder cancer . intravesical administration of bacillus calmette-guerin has been shown to be highly effective treatment of superficial bladder cancer . complications from bacillus calmette-guerin therapy are usually minor but serious and even fatal reactions can occur . five recent cases illustrate the gravity of bacillus calmette-guerin sepsis . one man with severe debility and the organic brain syndrome died acutely with a fever of 40 c. two men had frank sepsis that progressed to multiorgan failure and death . sepsis progressed despite the use of isoniazid , rifampin and streptomycin . two men who had equally progressive sepsis with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin survived with the use of cycloserine for the first 72 hours of treatment . triple antituberculous antibiotics , including cycloserine , may be lifesaving . sepsis resulted from intravenous absorption through inflamed or disrupted urothelium . bacillus calmette-guerin treatment should not be administered in the presence of severe cystitis or after grossly traumatic catheterization . 
fatal disseminated mycobacterial infection following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin . we describe a fatal case of disseminated mycobacteriosis after intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin immunotherapy . we summarize the prior safety record of this therapeutic modality , discuss local and systemic pathophysiological mechanisms by which dissemination might have occurred , and review the reported clinical experience with antituberculous chemotherapy for significant bacillus calmette-guerin infection . finally , we offer suggestions for prophylaxis of certain patients with a history of exposure to intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin . 
triamterene nephrolithiasis : renewed attention is warranted . although triamterene has been known to contribute to urinary calculus formation , it has been presumed to be a rare phenomenon . our review of stone analyses performed during the last decade by a single laboratory reveals an increasing incidence of triamterene stones . awareness of the calculogenic potential of triamterene-containing medications should be re-emphasized . 
prospective comparison of plain abdominal radiography with conventional and digital renal tomography in assessing renal extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy patients . most publications citing the effectiveness of renal extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy have used plain abdominal radiography to assess residual calculi after treatment . we compared radiologist sensitivity and specificity in the detection of calculi on plain abdominal radiographs versus conventional film-screen and digital renal tomograms in extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy patients . of the patients 50 were imaged before and within 24 hours after lithotripsy . six radiologists evaluated the resultant 300 studies for the presence and location of calculi . the mean sensitivity for digital tomograms was 83 % for pre-lithotripsy and post-lithotripsy studies , which was significantly higher than for plain abdominal radiography and conventional tomography after lithotripsy . however , there were significantly more false positive stone diagnoses associated with digital tomogram interpretation . signal detection analysis verified the over-all superiority of digital tomography for post-extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy imaging . calculus detection by conventional and digital tomography is superior to detection by plain abdominal radiography . however , because we did not perform delayed imaging , it is not possible to say what impact digital tomography might have on the management of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy patients . 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy in patients with bleeding diatheses . five patients with known bleeding diatheses were treated with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy . specific therapy was administered before extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy to reverse the bleeding disorder . after treatment each patient was monitored with serial hemoglobin determinations and renal ultrasonography . the course during and after lithotripsy was uneventful in all patients . we conclude that extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy is a viable option for patients with significant bleeding diatheses provided that specific therapy to reverse the coagulopathic condition is available and used before treatment . 
nephron-sparing surgery for renal cell carcinoma with venous involvement . a nephron-sparing operation recently has been shown to provide extended survival free of disease in selected patients with localized renal cell carcinoma , particularly for tumors of lower stage . to define better the role of conservative surgical treatment in more locally advanced renal cell carcinoma we reviewed 9 patients with venous tumor involvement in solitary functioning kidneys who underwent a nephron-sparing operation . complete tumor resection with adequate preservation of renal function was accomplished in all cases . of the 9 patients 5 had no evidence of disease 7 to 93 months ( mean 33.2 months ) postoperatively . the remaining 4 patients died of metastatic renal cell carcinoma 17 to 47 months ( mean 35.5 months ) postoperatively , 2 of whom had concomitant local recurrences in the renal remnant . based on previously reported results of total nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma with venous involvement and the morbidity associated with renal replacement therapy , we believe that a nephron-sparing operation is a viable option in the management of these patients . 
adverse impact of fibrin clot inhibitors on intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy for superficial bladder tumors . although intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy has proved to be efficacious in the treatment and prophylaxis against tumor recurrence of superficial bladder tumors , its mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated . previous work has suggested that bacillus calmette-guerin organisms attach to the matrix protein , fibronectin , during fibrin clot formation at sites of urothelial disruption and that this attachment was required for the antitumor effect of bacillus calmette-guerin to be expressed . furthermore , drugs inhibiting clot formation were found to abrogate the antitumor effect of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy in a murine bladder tumor model . to examine the effect of inhibitors of fibrin clot formation on the results of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy , a retrospective analysis of 149 evaluable patients receiving intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin for superficial bladder tumors was performed . the over-all response rate free of tumor for 29 patients who concomitantly received inhibitors of fibrin clot formation with bacillus calmette-guerin therapy was 48 % , as compared with 67 % for 120 patients who were not receiving these medications ( p = 0.0655 , chi-square ) . the most striking difference was noted for patients who failed with recurrent superficial disease . of the patients who received fibrin clot inhibitors during intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy 35 % had recurrent superficial tumors compared to only 8 % of those who did not receive these drugs during a mean followup of 29.8 plus or minus 11 months ( p = 0.005 , chi-square ) . our study suggests that inhibitors of fibrin clot formation may have an adverse influence on the results of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin therapy for superficial bladder tumors . 
outpatient flexible cystoscopy and fulguration of recurrent superficial bladder tumors . flexible cystoendoscopy and fulguration were used in the outpatient management of 185 patients with superficial bladder tumors followed for 24 months . this method provided optimal surveillance for recurrence and successful tumor control in selected cases . 
primary malignant lymphoma of the bladder . we treated 11 patients with primary malignant lymphoma of the bladder . the typical patient is a woman more than 50 years old who presents with urgency and frequency of micturition , and occasionally gross hematuria . hydronephrosis is present in half of the patients and cystoscopy usually reveals a solid tumor . partial cystectomy , when feasible , with or without radiotherapy and chemotherapy is the usual treatment modality . when localized to the bladder , malignant lymphoma has an over-all favorable prognosis . 
prostacyclin-to-thromboxane a2 ratio in arteriogenic impotence . it has been suggested that penile hypercoagulability predisposes to aging penile vascular changes and impotence , and that elevated thromboxane a2 during erection may contribute to hypercoagulability and atherosclerosis . since the ratio of the prostacyclin concentration to the thromboxane a2 concentration is constantly maintained in normal hemostatic responses , an imbalance between thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin may be a factor to initiate vascular diseases and decrease blood flow . we assess the usefulness of the prostacyclin-to-thromboxane a2 ratio in penile blood during erection for diagnosis of arteriogenic impotence . the ratio in the arteriogenic impotence group was significantly lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than in the psychogenic and venogenic impotence groups . therefore , the prostacyclin-to-thromboxane a2 ratio seems to be useful to diagnose arteriogenic impotence . 
complications in hyperthermia treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia . of 435 patients treated with local hyperthermia to the prostate 27 had 29 complications , for an over-all complication rate of 6.6 % . urinary tract infections ( 7 cases ) , hematuria ( 6 ) , and epididymitis ( 2 ) accounted for roughly half of the complications and could be attributed to the insertion of a catheter rather than the treatment itself but this remains to be proved . most of the complications occurred within the first 3 treatment sessions . despite the complication , 9 patients continued and completed the treatment course . mean age of the study group was 73 + / - 8.3 years . given the age of these patients , high incidence of accompanying diseases and low rate of complications , local hyperthermia should be considered a viable low risk treatment option in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia . 
a dose titration study evaluating terazosin , a selective , once-a-day alpha 1-blocker for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia . the efficacy and safety of terazosin , a selective long-acting alpha-1-adrenergic blocker , were evaluated in 45 normotensive patients with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia ranging from 50 to 76 years old . all patients underwent a complete urodynamic evaluation and transrectal prostatic ultrasonography before enrollment into the study . the dose of terazosin was titrated to 5 mg . per day for a 1-month interval , provided adverse drug reactions were not observed . of the patients 39 ( 87 % ) completed the dose titration study . the parameters used to assess the effectiveness of terazosin included peak and mean urinary flow rates , micturition symptom scores and the global assessment by the patient of symptomatic improvement . over-all , the mean systolic and diastolic blood pressures changed by less than 1 % . the peak and mean urinary flow rates increased by 42 and 48 % , respectively . the obstructive and irritative symptom scores improved by 63 and 35 % , respectively . over-all , 30 of the 45 participants ( 67 % ) indicated that the voiding symptoms were markedly improved while on terazosin . five patients did not complete the dose titration study due to development of adverse drug reactions , including erectile dysfunction ( 7 % ) , tiredness ( 7 % ) , light-headedness ( 4 % ) , palpitations ( 4 % ) , nasal congestion ( 2 % ) and asymptomatic hypotension ( 2 % ) . there were 25 patients ( 55 % ) followed on terazosin for 4 to 10 months ( mean 6.5 months ) . the improvements in urinary flow rates and symptom scores were maintained for this interval . although this preliminary experience with terazosin is encouraging , the ultimate role of terazosin for the long-term treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia needs further evaluation . 
clinical and pathological findings in prostates following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin instillations . the prostates of 36 patients who were treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin were evaluated by digital rectal examination and transrectal ultrasonography . when abnormal palpatory and/or ultrasonographic findings were detected , core needle biopsies from the suspicious areas were performed . of the 36 patients 20 underwent biopsies of the prostate . pathological findings revealed typical granulomas in 8 patients ( 3 caseating and 5 noncaseating multifocal granulomas ) . nonspecific chronic prostatitis was noted in 4 patients and benign prostatic hyperplasia was noted in 8 . the number of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations ranged from 6 to 19 . the interval from initiation of therapy to biopsy ranged from 1.5 to 14.5 months . caseating granulomas were found during the early course of bacillus calmette-guerin instillations ( 1.5 to 3.0 months ) , whereas noncaseating granulomas were detected at later stages ( 4 to 14.5 months ) . these findings present a high incidence of granuloma formation in patients treated with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin . the duration of therapy is a determinant factor in the induction of granuloma type . 
the madigan prostatectomy . a total of 59 patients with bladder outflow obstruction underwent the madigan prostatectomy . the method , results and complications are described . for select patients with large benign adenomas without a median lobe or hematuria we believe the technique to be the operation of choice , particularly in younger patients . advantages include absence of postoperative hematuria and clot retention , a decreased requirement for blood transfusions , a 16f postoperative catheter with early removal , avoidance of post-catheter stricture , a low rate of postoperative urinary infection , a short comfortable period of hospitalization and , in the long term ( median followup 6 years ) , preservation of potency and antegrade ejaculation . 
the prognostic value of modal deoxyribonucleic acid in low grade , low stage untreated prostate cancer . we selected for a prospective surveillance study 167 patients with untreated grades 1 and 2 prostate cancer . the tumors were classified regarding modal deoxyribonucleic acid value ( ploidy ) by flow cytometry , cytological grade by transrectal fine needle aspiration biopsy and local tumor stage . of the patients 146 could be evaluated . mean followup was 50 months . the initial ploidy was statistically correlated to cytological grade but not to initial local tumor stage , prostatic acid phosphatase activity or patient age . initial ploidy and cytological grade had a prognostic value regarding local tumor progression when considered as single predictors and in combination . two patients with diploid and 8 with nondiploid tumors initially had metastases during the surveillance . five patients ( 1 with diploid and 4 with nondiploid disease ) died of prostatic cancer . modal deoxyribonucleic acid value and cytological grade were of prognostic value in untreated prostate cancer . 
evaluation of tumor progression by repeated fine needle biopsies in prostate adenocarcinoma : modal deoxyribonucleic acid value and cytological differentiation . repeated fine needle aspiration biopsies of the prostate were taken during a period of 24 months or more from 84 patients with untreated prostate cancer . serial followup regarding modal deoxyribonucleic acid values and cytological differentiation of the tumor cells was possible in 72 and 78 patients , respectively . during followup the modal deoxyribonucleic acid values in the tumor cells changed towards an increased aneuploidy in 17 patients and the cytological differentiation decreased in 18 . these findings of a change in modal deoxyribonucleic acid values and cytological differentiation of prostate cancer cells during the course of untreated patients support the concept of a gradual dedifferentiation of prostate cancer . 
flutamide in hormone-resistant prostatic cancer . flutamide ( 250 mg . orally 3 times daily ) yielded a subjective response in 5 of 25 fully evaluable patients with hormone-resistant prostatic cancer . four additional patients had early progression . a 40 % or greater decrease in the pre-treatment prostate specific antigen level was observed in 7 of 24 patients and this finding was correlated with improved survival . toxicity was mainly gastrointestinal and resulted in permanent discontinuation of flutamide in 5 patients . flutamide or similar antiandrogens may have a role in the management of hormone-resistant prostatic cancer when relief of subjective symptoms should be an important treatment goal together with improvement of survival . however , before the drug should be used routinely in the management of hormone-resistant prostatic cancer phase 3 studies must confirm its effectiveness , especially in comparison to less expensive drugs . 
role of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy for clinical stage b2 prostate cancer . to examine the role of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy in patients with clinical stage b2 prostate cancer we reviewed the first 77 such patients in our series since we adopted the nerve-sparing technique . a total of 47 patients ( 61 % ) underwent bilateral and 26 ( 34 % ) underwent unilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomy , while in 4 ( 5 % ) both neurovascular bundles were resected . among the patients followed for 12 months 27 of 41 ( 66 % ) treated with bilateral and 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) treated with unilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomy had potency preserved . with the strict clinicopathological criteria of organ-confined tumor , that is intracapsular tumor with negative surgical margins and undetectable postoperative prostate specific antigen levels , complete tumor excision was achieved in 17 patients ( 36 % ) treated with bilateral and 7 of 26 ( 27 % ) treated with unilateral nerve-sparing prostatectomy . all patients in whom both neurovascular bundles were resected had pathological stage c or d1 disease . of the 24 patients who had complete tumor excision by the strict criteria only 15 ( 19.5 % of the 77 preoperatively potent patients ) had potency preserved . of these patients 19 had microscopically positive margins without seminal vesicle invasion ( pathological stage c1 ) with undetectable postoperative prostate specific antigen levels . in addition , 4 patients had seminal vesicle involvement with negative surgical margins and undetectable postoperative prostate specific antigen levels . if these patients also are considered as having complete tumor excision , there was an over-all complete tumor excision rate of 61 % ( 47 of 77 ) , of whom 25 ( 32 % of the 77 patients ) had preservation of potency . ten patients with clinical stage b2 tumor whose potency was preserved had histological and serological evidence of incomplete tumor excision . of 53 patients with pathological stage c1 disease 9 ( 17 % ) had margins positive only in the regions of the neurovascular bundles . preoperative prostate specific antigen and acid phosphatase levels , and findings on transrectal ultrasonography failed to predict accurately which patients had extracapsular tumor extension . patients with poorly differentiated tumors and/or bulky disease on rectal examination had a higher incidence of extracapsular extension and positive margins . we conclude that in the majority of potent patients with clinical stage b2 prostate cancer not all of the goals of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy are realized . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
management of stage d1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate : the johns hopkins experience 1974 to 1987 . there is no consensus on the proper management of men with stage d1 adenocarcinoma of the prostate . although cure is unlikely , many men survive for long intervals apparently free of metastatic disease . thus , effective palliation of the local lesion with low morbidity is desirable . from 1974 to 1987 , 120 consecutive men with stage d1 prostate cancer were treated with 3 primary modes of therapy ( mean followup 48 months ) : 1 ) expectant therapy ( 35 ) , 2 ) external beam radiotherapy ( 21 ) and 3 ) radical prostatectomy ( 64 ) . these patients were statistically homogeneous as determined by gleason grade but not by extent of metastatic disease . the over-all 5 and 10-year projected actuarial survival rates for the radical prostatectomy patients were 97 and 62 % , respectively , and the apparent clinical survival free of disease at 5 years and 80 months , respectively , was 83 and 68 % . the direct disease-specific 10-year survival free of disease was 46 % . however , only 3 of 27 patients followed for 3 years or longer had undetectable levels of prostate specific antigen . using a cox univariate proportional hazards model several factors appeared to have significant prognostic value including volume of lymph node metastases ( macroscopic greater than 2 mm . ) , percentage of positive lymph nodes sampled and frozen section diagnosis . gleason grade , clinical stage and the number of positive nodes did not have significant prognostic value . local recurrence requiring an operation was noted in 8 of 35 patients ( 23 % ) treated expectantly , 5 of 21 ( 24 % ) treated with radiotherapy and 2 of 64 ( 3 % ) treated with radical prostatectomy . significant gastrointestinal or genitourinary complications occurred in 33 % of the men treated with radiotherapy and 1.5 % of those undergoing radical prostatectomy . since the introduction of nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy in 1982 , potency resumed in 55 % of the 33 patients who were potent preoperatively and have been followed 1 year or longer . these data suggest that in properly selected patients radical prostatectomy , although not curative , can provide excellent palliation of the local lesion with acceptable morbidity and that symptomatic local recurrence of prostatic cancer achieved with radiation therapy is identical to the results in men who were managed expectantly . 
the value of leak pressure and bladder compliance in the urodynamic evaluation of meningomyelocele patients . a total of 61 patients with myelodysplasia underwent water cystometry and electromyography of the external sphincter . of these patients 27 underwent video fluorourodynamics as a part of preoperative evaluation or instead of a voiding cystometrogram . renal quantitative scintillation camera studies detected 7 patients with mild upper tract deterioration , even when other tests failed to do so . a total of 31 patients had upper tract deterioration as detected by excretory urography , ultrasound and/or renal scan studies , and were designated as group 1 , while 30 had normal upper tracts and were designated as group 2 . bladder compliance in group 1 was significantly lower than that in group 2 ( 4.5 versus 11.3 ml . / cm . water , p = 0.001 ) . leak pressure in group 1 was significantly higher than in group 2 ( 42.3 versus 26.1 cm . water , p = 0.019 ) . in summary , patients with evidence of upper tract deterioration had lower bladder compliance and higher leak pressure than patients with normal kidneys . 
management of children with myelodysplasia : urological alternatives . recent reports have suggested that the prophylactic use of clean intermittent catheterization in selected infants with myelodysplasia and with normal upper tracts may prevent their deterioration . the selection of these patients at risk depends on urodynamic criteria . we reviewed our experience with clean intermittent catheterization instituted when upper tract deterioration was found . of 130 patients with myelodysplasia followed at our clinic 25 ( 19 % ) had or presented with radiological upper urinary tract deterioration . a total of 21 patients had vesicoureteral reflux and 4 had hydronephrosis without reflux . treatment consisted of clean intermittent catheterization alone in 5 patients and combined with anticholinergic medication in 16 . four patients with no post-void residual urine were carefully observed without intervention . urodynamic evaluation was performed selectively in 11 of these 25 patients for persistence of upper urinary tract deterioration or urinary incontinence after institution of treatment . of the 21 children with reflux 19 ( 90 % ) had resolution or improvement for an average followup of 47 months . hydronephrosis completely resolved in the 4 patients without reflux . thus , the over-all resolution or improvement rate was 92 % for an average of 41 months . although these excellent results may not be superior to the prophylactic use of clean intermittent catheterization , they validate the assumption that upper tract deterioration can be reversed . the application of current urodynamic selection criteria may result in overtreating a significant number of infants who otherwise may not have upper tract deterioration . further refinements in these criteria may be necessary to select better not only patients at risk but also to determine the frequency of imaging necessary in this urologically heterogeneous population . in addition , careful consideration should be given to urethral dilation as a third and equally viable alternative to prevent upper tract deterioration . 
renal scintigraphy in the diagnosis and surgical management of a patient with caliceal colic : a case report . a patient with persistent renal colic and a caliceal stone is presented . furosemide renography , commonly used to differentiate functional stasis from mechanical obstruction of an entire kidney or duplicated collecting system , can make this determination at the caliceal level . as in this case such determination can affect clinical management of the patient . 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in the treatment of eosinophilic cystitis . a 30-year-old white woman with urinary frequency , left costovertebral angle pain and hematuria had left hydronephrosis , a marked decrease in bladder capacity and severe eosinophilic cystitis on biopsy . she was treated with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug and an antihistamine , with a dramatic , complete and rapid recovery . the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug was believed to have been responsible for the favorable outcome , since antihistamines have not produced reliable benefits in this disease . nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are recommended in cases of eosinophilic cystitis . 
transrectal ultrasonography in the evaluation of the infertile man : a report of 3 cases . the traditional evaluation of the infertile man with azoospermia or low ejaculate volume includes determination of serum testosterone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels , a seminal fructose test , post-ejaculate urinalysis and , sometimes , vasography . transrectal ultrasonography , a technique currently familiar to most urologists , recently has been added to our diagnostic armamentarium . this office-based imaging procedure provides an accurate assessment of the prostate , ejaculatory ducts and seminal vesicles , which can be helpful in the evaluation of certain infertile patients . we describe 3 patients who presented with either azoospermia or decreased ejaculate volume in whom transrectal ultrasonography had a critical role in the fertility evaluation . the clinical indications for and interpretation of transrectal ultrasonography in the infertile population are described . transrectal ultrasonography currently is the most accurate , inexpensive and readily available noninvasive imaging technique used to diagnose obstruction of the ejaculatory ducts in the infertile patient with either azoospermia or low ejaculate volume . 
gonadoblastoma in an anatomically normal man : a case report and literature review . gonadoblastoma , a rare gonadal neoplasm , presents most frequently in phenotypic female or phenotypically male patients with dysgenetic gonads or undescended testes . to date , only 2 cases of gonadoblastoma have been reported in anatomically normal male patients with scrotal testes . both of these patients presented with testicular masses and germ cell tumors . we report a case of a genotypically and phenotypically normal , fertile man with descended testes who on evaluation for chronic orchialgia had a gonadoblastoma unaccompanied by a germ cell neoplasm . the tumor was nonpalpable and was initially discovered on scrotal ultrasound . 
the kinetics of cellular proliferation in rat urinary bladder treated with n-butyl-n - ( 4-hydroxybutyl ) nitrosamine . the cellular proliferation of the bladder epithelium was determined sequentially in rats treated with n-butyl-n - ( 4-hydroxybutyl ) nitrosamine ( bbn ) . the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine ( brdurd ) into the dna synthesis phase was determined by an in vitro labeling technique . the percentage of labeled cells was expressed as the labeling index ( li ) . the average li values in normal subjects and cancer-bearing subjects were 5.1 ( % ) and 24.2 ( % ) respectively . with the transition of the bladder epithelium from simple hyperplasia to cancer , the li values of the bladder epithelium were increased . cases of papillary or nodular ( pn ) hyperplasia were divided into two types according to the localization of the brdurd-labeled cells . the li in pn hyperplasia was 12.4 ( % ) ; the difference from cancer was significant . in another experiment , the effect of partial cystectomy on bladder tumors was examined . the group with partial cystectomy showed increases in grade and stage of cancer , and the li of cancer was more than that in the group without partial cystectomy . the results indicate that partial cystectomy may play a role as promotor for bladder tumors . the current study may be of more practical value than is the conventional one for investigating the histogenesis and progression of human bladder cancer . 
the use of prostaglandin f2 alpha for the prophylaxis of cyclophosphamide induced cystitis in rats . it is well-established that cystitis is a significant cause of morbidity after cyclophosphamide administration in clinical populations . we induced hemorrhagic cystitis in rats using cyclophosphamide and compared controls to those pretreated with prostaglandin f2 alpha . rats were then evaluated for differences in bladder weights , gross edema , gross bleeding , and histologic changes . the weights of the bladders which had been treated with cyclophosphamide were 94 % greater than the controls . the weights of the bladders which were pretreated with prostaglandin f2 alpha before cyclophosphamide were only 19 % greater than controls . significant differences were found between cyclophosphamide controls and prostaglandin f2 alpha pretreated groups for gross weight ( p less than .0005 ) , gross edema ( p less than .0005 ) , and histology ( .0005 less than p less than .005 ) . we conclude that prostaglandin f2 alpha may be helpful in preventing cyclophosphamide induced cystitis . 
pressure threshold for shock wave induced renal hemorrhage . studies were performed with an interest in determining a pressure threshold for extracorporeal shock wave induced renal damage . histological evidence of intraparenchymal hemorrhage was used as an indicator of tissue trauma . depilated c3h mice were anesthetized and placed on a special frame to enhance visualization and treatment of the kidneys in situ . a wolf electrohydraulic generator and 9 french probe designed for endoscopic use were utilized to expose the kidneys to 10 double spherically divergent shock waves . measurements of the shock waves revealed two positive pressure peaks of similar magnitude for each spark discharge . the kidneys were exposed to different peak pressures by choice of distance from the spark source and were removed immediately after treatment for histologic processing . a dose response was noted with severe corticomedullary damage apparent following 15 to 20 mpa shocks . hemorrhage was more apparent in the medulla where evidence of damage could be seen following pressures as low as three to five mpa . when a latex membrane was interposed to prevent possible collapse of the initial bubble from the spark source against the skin surface , histological evaluation revealed substantial reduction of severe tissue damage associated with the highest pressures tested , 20 mpa . however , the threshold level for evidence of hemorrhage remained about three to five mpa . hydrophonic measurements indicated that the membrane allowed transmission of the acoustic shock waves and suggested that collapse of the bubble generated by electrohydraulic probes may have local effects due to a cavitation-like mechanism . 
the effect of an alpha-2 agonist on bladder function and cord histology after spinal cord injury [ retracted by weiss r , tomasula jj , sotologo jr jr . in : j urol 1991 aug ; 146 ( 2 ) :426 ] spinal injury in cats is accompanied by urinary bladder and hind limb dysfunction . ten cats subjected to spinal contusion at the ninth thoracic segment were treated with guanabenz ( an alpha-2 agonist ) intraperitoneally ( 0.65 mg . / kg . ) three hours after injury , and twice daily for eight weeks . an additional six spinal cats were untreated and served as controls . urodynamic studies were performed on a weekly basis on all animals . guanabenz modified the vesico-somatic reflex : detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia was either ablated or abolished . in contrast , the controls demonstrated detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia , high residual urine , and spasticity below the lesion . histological evaluations of the spinal cords revealed that the six paraplegic animals ( untreated ) suffered marked cavitation of the cord and complete destruction of the grey matter . the five incomplete paraplegic animals ( treated ) showed minimal cavitation with some preservation of the grey matter . the five ambulators ( treated ) demonstrated some distortion of grey matter with preservation of white matter . treatment with guanabenz post traumatic cord injury results in decreased cord cavitation . detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia is diminished and hind limb function is improved in treated animals . 
physiologic and pathologic alterations associated with ultrasonically generated shock waves . kidneys of 25 dogs were treated with ultrasonic shock waves and examined for both physiologic and pathologic changes . the number of pulses ranged from 2,000 to 8,000 . the rate of the shock waves varied from one to 20 pulses per second . the difference in pulse rate did not affect the changes seen either acutely or in the delayed examination of the kidneys during the repair process . the physiologic and pathologic changes which occurred involved the renal tubule to a greater degree than the glomerulus . these alterations were resolving by one week following exposure to the shock waves . 
cell injury associated calcium oxalate crystalluria . renal tubular cell damage , resulting in membranuria , was induced by the administration of subcutaneous gentamicin to male sprague-dawley rats . one group of rats received gentamicin only , while a second group was given gentamicin plus ethylene glycol in drinking water at a concentration which increased urine oxalate but alone did not cause calcium oxalate crystalluria . crystalluria occurred early in the combined treatment groups and persisted for the duration of the experiment . crystalluria was not present in animals receiving gentamicin or ethylene glycol only . these results suggest that cellular fragments can serve as heterogeneous foci for the nucleation of calcium oxalate crystals . 
in situ hybridization of prostate-specific antigen mrna in human prostate . prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) mrna was detected by in situ hybridization utilizing a 428 base pair [ 35s ] - labelled cdna probe from the 3 ' noncoding region of the psa gene . thirty six fresh surgical specimens were collected from patients undergoing radical retropubic prostatectomy for carcinoma of the prostate . quantitative analysis of the levels of psa mrna in both the benign and malignant tissues was performed using an ibas 2000 image analysis system . the results of this study demonstrated that there is a significant decrease in the expression of psa mrna in the carcinoma tissue when compared to the benign epithelium . the average binding ( number of silver grains/1 x 10 ( 4 ) microns . 2 ) for 20 specimens of malignant epithelium was 475 + / - 161 and 586 + / - 140 for 16 specimens of benign epithelium ( p less than 0.05 ) . eleven patients had both benign and malignant tissue from the same surgical specimen available for study . from these paired specimens , the psa mrna expression was also significantly reduced in the malignant epithelium when compared to the benign epithelium , 445 + / - 162 and 588 + / - 135 respectively ( p less than 0.005 ) . the psa protein was detected using a monoclonal antibody to psa with an immunohistochemical staining technique . the psa protein expression paralleled the expression of the psa mrna in the majority of the tissue sections . many of the tumor specimens showed a heterogeneous expression of psa , whereas all of the benign epithelium had a uniform high level of psa expression . in conclusion , psa mrna and protein are located only within the glandular epithelial tissue , the expression of psa protein parallels that of the psa mrna , and both the psa protein and psa mrna are significantly decreased in the malignant epithelium when compared to benign prostatic epithelium . 
nephron function in the early phase of ischemic renal failure . significance of erythrocyte trapping . trapping of red blood cells ( rbcs ) in renal medulla vasculature in postischemic acute renal failure ( arf ) was found to depend upon the length of the ischemic period . thus trapping occurred after 45 minutes but not 25 minutes of ischemia . by prior hemodilution to a hematocrit ( hct ) of 30 % , rbc trapping after 45 minutes of ischemia could be completely prevented . likewise hemo-concentration ( hct = 60 % ) before 25 minutes of ischemia resulted in extensive rbc trapping . by increasing or decreasing the hct , the contribution of rbc trapping to the functional defects and decrease in renal blood flow that follows minor ( 25 min ) and more substantial ( 45 min ) ischemia was investigated . renal blood flow ( rbf ) was measured by microspheres , and vascular and tubular pressure by the micropuncture technique . glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) was estimated from inulin clearance , and tubular function from urine osmolality and sodium and potassium excretion . it was found that postischemic rbf was not correlated to rbc trapping but depended on the length of ischemia . after both 25 and 45 minutes of ischemia tubular obstructions occurred in the proximal tubules and/or loops of henle , causing an increase in proximal tubular pressure . these obstructions were dependent on the length of ischemia but not on rbc trapping . after hemoconcentration and 25 minutes of ischemia there was an increment in distal tubular pressure , indicating that abundant rbc trapping may contribute to an increase in tubular pressure by compression of medullary tubules and thereby reduce gfr . when the damage was more severe other factors came into play and the contribution of rbc trapping to the decrease in gfr was minimal . 
role of enhanced glomerular synthesis of thromboxane a2 in progressive kidney disease . normotensive rats of the milan strain ( mns ) spontaneously develop focal glomerulosclerosis . in order to explore the contribution of glomerular thromboxane ( tx ) a2 synthesis to the development of the disease , we have characterized the time course of renal functional and biochemical changes , and their modification by long-term treatment with a tx-synthase inhibitor . oral administration ( 150 mg.kg-1 from 1 to 14 months of age ) of fce 22178 suppressed enhanced glomerular txb2 production at all experimental times ( mean inhibition 80 % ) and proteinuria ( varying between 27.1 and 73.0 % ) while preserving renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate . these effects of tx-synthase inhibition were seen in the absence of any statistically significant changes in systemic blood pressure . moreover , fce 22178 had no antihypertensive effects in hypertensive rats of the milan strain ( mhs ) nor in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) . treatment also prevented the age-related hypoalbuminemia and hyperlipidemia observed in control mns and significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) reduced glomerular histologic damage , as demonstrated by light microscopy studies and measurement of sclerotic area . we conclude that : 1 ) mns rats provide an animal model of long-lasting proteinuria characterized by an age-related increase in glomerular txb2 production paralleled by progressive loss of renal structural integrity and function and by a secondary dyslipidemia ; 2 ) pharmacological inhibition of glomerular tx-synthase attenuates the structural as well as the functional expression of kidney disease , without a primary effect on systemic blood pressure . these data are suggestive of an important modulating role of txa2 in the progression of mns renal disease . 
mild ischemia predisposes the s3 segment to gentamicin toxicity . the purpose of these studies was to determine if a functionally insignificant ischemic insult , occurring prior to gentamicin administration , enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity . bilateral renal pedicle clamp studies demonstrated that 15 minutes of ischemia did not increase the plasma creatinine yet markedly enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity . further studies , in uninephrectomized rats , demonstrated that following fifteen minutes of renal ischemia and four hours of reperfusion inulin clearance , fena + and cellular morphology were normal . this model , therefore , was used in all subsequent studies . while the plasma creatinine concentrations were normal 24 hours following 15 minutes of ischemia and only slightly increased following gentamicin administration ( 100 mg/kg , i.p. ) gentamicin administered four hours following 15 minutes of renal ischemia resulted in significantly increased 24-hour plasma creatinine values . light microscopic quantitation of tissue injury , performed 24 hours following experimental manipulation , was notable for s3 segment damage in the ischemia plus gentamicin group . this was not observed in either the ischemia group or the sham operated gentamicin group . cortical gentamicin levels were elevated in the ischemia plus gentamicin group , despite similar plasma gentamicin half-lives . however , the elevation in cortical gentamicin levels was dissociated from the enhanced nephrotoxicity seen following mild ischemic injury . taken together these data indicate that mild renal ischemia , occurring prior to gentamicin administration , greatly enhanced gentamicin nephrotoxicity with the greatest damage occurring to s3 cells . 
a phenomenological interpretation of the variation in dialysate volume with dwell time in capd . intraperitoneal fluid volume ( ipv ) changes versus time were followed in patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) using a simple volume recovery method . in each patient dialysates containing 1.36 and 3.86 percent glucose as an osmotic agent were investigated . the patients ' ipv versus time data were fitted to a function determined by four " arbitrary " coefficients , from which both the initial ultrafiltration ( uf ) rate immediately following intraperitoneal ( i.p. ) fluid instillation and the " final " peritoneal-to-blood fluid absorption rate could be assessed . the peritoneal osmotic conductance to glucose , that is , the peritoneal ultrafiltration coefficient ( kf ) , times the peritoneal osmotic reflection coefficient to glucose ( sigma g ) , kf sigma g , was determined using two related approaches . kf sigma g is a major determinant of the transperitoneal volume exchange , and it was calculated to be 3.54 + / - 0.85 ( + / - se ) and 3.81 + / - 0.52 microliters/min/mm hg , respectively , depending on the assumption employed . kf sigma g was further analysed according to a three-pore model of membrane permeability to determine the possible range of kf and sigma g compatible with a peritoneal small solute sieving coefficient ( phi ) ranging from 0.3 to 0.61 . according to these calculations both kf and sigma g ranged from 0.043 to 0.081 ( ml/min/mm hg and dimensionless , respectively ) . the maximal peritoneal lymph flow ( l ) realistic according to this analysis , and compatible with a measured total peritoneal-to-blood fluid absorption rate of 1.25 + / - 0.14 ml/min , was 0.75 ml/min , the most plausible values , however , falling between 0.3 to 0.5 ml/min . 
peritoneal transport in capd patients with permanent loss of ultrafiltration capacity . during a 10 year period , 14 out of 227 patients ( 6.2 % ) undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) developed permanent loss of ultrafiltration capacity ( ufc ) . the risk of ufc loss increased from 2.6 % after one year to 30.9 % after six years of treatment . a six hour , single dwell study with glucose 3.86 % dialysis fluid was carried out in nine of the ufc loss patients and in 18 capd patients with normal ufc . intraperitoneal dialysate volumes were calculated using 131i-tagged albumin ( risa ) as volume marker with a correction applied for its elimination from the peritoneal cavity . the risa elimination coefficient ( ke ) , which can serve as an estimation of the upper limit of the lymphatic flow , was also calculated . diffusive mass transport coefficients ( kbd ) for investigated solutes ( glucose , creatinine , urea , potassium , total protein , albumin and beta 2-microglobulin ) were calculated during a period of dialysate isovolemia . two patterns of ufc loss were observed : ( a ) seven patients had high kbd values for small solutes resulting in rapid uptake of glucose , whereas kbd values for proteins were normal ; ( b ) two patients had normal kbd values but a threefold increase both in the fluid reabsorption rate and ke . we conclude that loss of the osmotic driving force ( due to increased diffusive mass transport for small solutes ) and increased fluid reabsorption ( possibly due to increased lymphatic reabsorption ) are the two major causes of permanent loss of ufc in capd patients . 
angiotensin ii receptor regulation in anti-glomerular basement membrane nephritis . the expression of the glomerular receptor for angiotensin ii ( ang ii-r ) was examined longitudinally following the induction of anti-glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) nephritis in the rat . the specific aim of the project was to determine whether immunologically-induced glomerular injury led to significant abnormalities of the relationship between glomerular ang ii-r and its circulating ligand , ang ii . scatchard analysis was used to measure ang ii-r on purified glomeruli at selected time intervals over two months following a single dose of sheep anti-rat gbm antibody . corresponding values for plasma ang ii were determined . receptor density fell to approximately 50 % by 16 hours following the injection of antibody ( control 96.4 + / - 9.3 x 10 ( 6 ) ; nephritic 52.6 + / - 5.6 x 10 ( 6 ) receptors/glomerulus ; p less than 0.001 ) and there was a corresponding threefold increase in plasma ang ii ( control 21.0 + / - 2.5 ; nephritic 66.6 + / - 20.6 pg/ml ; p less than 0.01 ) . however , this reduction in receptor binding could not be explained by the rise in plasma ang ii concentration , as effective blockade of the ras by enalapril did not alter receptor expression ( 56.1 + / - 4.6 x 10 ( 6 ) receptors/glomerulus ) . subsequently , a rise in receptor density and a corresponding fall in plasma ang ii were observed : three days after antibody administration , receptor concentration had increased significantly above control values ( 150.5 + / - 11.9 x 10 ( 6 ] while plasma ang ii was undetectable ( that is , less than 5 pg/ml ) . ang ii-r remained elevated for the next two weeks but returned to normal four to eight weeks after the administration of nephrotoxic antibody . 
toxicity comparison of neoadjuvant versus adjuvant methotrexate , vinblastine , doxorubicin , and cisplatin ( m-vac ) in radical cystectomy patients . a reduction in the toxicity of m-vac chemotherapy has been postulated for patients who receive these drugs prior to radical cystectomy for muscle invasive bladder carcinoma . a review of the toxicity and patient dropout rates from a group of 9 patients who received neoadjuvant m-vac was little different from 9 patients who were treated with m-vac after radical cystectomy . this similarity suggests that preoperative m-vac should not be favored on the basis of reduced patient morbidity . 
parathyroid hormone-related peptide in plasma of patients with hypercalcemia and malignant lesions we developed and validated a radioimmunoassay for circulating human parathyroid hormone-related peptide ( pthrp ) , based on a commercial antiserum to the synthetic 1-34 fragment of pthrp , 125i-tyr degrees-pthrp ( 1-34 ) as radioligand , and prior extraction of the native peptide from plasma with c-2 cartridges . we determined immunoreactive pthrp concentrations in plasma samples from 48 healthy persons ( mean + / - sd , 3.1 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ; range , less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter ) , 8 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism , 36 patients with hypercalcemia and a concurrent malignant lesion , and 9 normocalcemic patients with cancer and increased serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen or prostate-specific antigen . pthrp was normal in samples from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism ( 3.2 + / - 1.1 pmol/liter ) , secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 2.5 + / - 1.3 pmol/liter ) , and cancer without hypercalcemia ( 2.4 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ) . in contrast , plasma immunoreactive pthrp levels were increased ( 6.0 to 85.0 pmol/liter ) in 47 % of patients with hypercalcemia and cancer of various types , with or without bone metastatic lesions . large amounts of pthrp were also found in conditioned medium from cultured human prostatic carcinoma cells . thus , pthrp may be a causative factor for hypercalcemia associated with a malignant lesion in at least half of the cases . measurement of circulating pthrp may be of differential diagnostic help in hypercalcemic states . 
renal cell carcinoma associated with sarcoidlike tissue reaction . a 60-year-old man was referred to our institution with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis . because of several months ' complaint of right flank pain and weight loss , the patient had consulted his local physician . after an extensive workup revealed only cholelithiasis , he underwent a cholecystectomy for presumed chronic cholecystitis . at the time of operation , biopsy of several liver nodules and peripancreatic nodes revealed noncaseating granulomas , consistent with sarcoidosis . on initial examination at our institution , the patient had microhematuria . a chest roentgenogram demonstrated multiple pulmonary nodules , an abdominal computed tomographic scan showed an indeterminate left renal mass , and magnetic resonance imaging of the spine revealed abnormal signals in the body of t-12 . open-lung biopsy showed an adenocarcinoma with clear cell features , likely of renal origin . the patient was diagnosed as having a metastatic renal carcinoma associated with a sarcoidlike tissue reaction . although noncaseating granulomas have been reported in association with other malignant lesions , to our knowledge this is the first report of such an association with renal carcinoma . in addition , this case illustrates several points . first , sarcoidosis is a multisystem disorder with protean extrapulmonary manifestations . in fact , all our patient 's findings could have been attributed to sarcoidosis . second , noncaseating granulomas occur with many types of processes , including infections , chemical exposures , and , as in this case , neoplasms . thus , noncaseating granulomas are not pathognomonic for sarcoidosis . third , sarcoidosis is a clinical diagnosis that can not be based on histologic findings alone . 
a chronic granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . a small clinically distinct group of patients with widespread tissue granulomata are described . the principal presenting symptoms are malaise , fever , and weight loss , although a wide variety of complaints are documented . pulmonary involvement is uncommon . the granulomata are noncaseating with a few multinucleate giant cells and some surrounding chronic inflammatory infiltrate . there is no evidence of an associated arteritis . the disease has a relapsing and remitting course and although it may require treatment with immunosuppressive drugs , particularly if the kidneys are involved , the prognosis is relatively good . we propose that this entity be called granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . the characteristics that set this syndrome apart from the other granulomatous vasculitides are discussed . the current limited understanding of granuloma formation does not allow us to propose a definite etiology for this condition . it is emphasized that it is not helpful to encompass it within a label of sarcoidosis . first , it may only serve to confuse the doctor in assessing and treating this very particular group of patients . secondly , it may hinder future attempts to understand the different pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the various conditions in which granulomata may arise . 
identification of the primary gene defect at the cytochrome p450 cyp2d locus . the mammalian cytochrome p450-dependent monooxygenase system is involved in the metabolism of drugs and chemical carcinogens . the role of these enzymes in toxicological response is exemplified by an autosomal recessive polymorphism at the cytochrome p450 cyp2d6 debrisoquine hydroxylase locus which results in the severely compromised metabolism of at least 25 drugs , and which in some cases can lead to life-threatening side-effects . in addition , this polymorphism , which affects 8-10 % of the caucasian population , has been associated with altered susceptibility to lung and bladder cancer . here we report the identification of the primary mutation responsible for this metabolic defect and the development of a simple dna-based genetic assay to allow both the identification of most individuals at risk of drug side-effects and clarification of the conflicting reports on the association of this polymorphism with cancer susceptibility . 
bidirectional incompatibility between conspecific populations of drosophila simulans cytoplasmic incompatibility ( ci ) describes the phenomenon whereby eggs fertilized by sperm from insects infected with a rickettsial endosymbiont fail to hatch . unidirectional ci between conspecific populations of insects is a well documented phenomenon . bidirectional ci has , however , only been described in mosquito populations , and recently between closely related species of parasitic wasps , where it is of interest as both an unusual form of reproductive isolation and as a potential means of insect population suppression . here we report on the first known example of bidirectional ci between conspecific populations of drosophila simulans . further , we show that defects as early as the first cleavage division are associated with ci . this observation suggests that the cellular basis of ci involves disruption of processes before or during zygote formation and that ci arises from defects in the structure and/or function of the sperm during fertilization . 
kearns-sayre syndrome presenting as renal tubular acidosis . renal tubular acidosis and tetany were the 1st manifestations of kearns-sayre syndrome in a 5-year-old child . subsequently , he developed progressive external ophthalmoplegia , ptosis , retinopathy , heart block , and endocrinopathy . there was a 7.5-kb deletion of mitochondrial dna documented in muscle , kidney , skin fibroblasts , and leukocytes , providing evidence for a multisystem mitochondrial cytopathy . 
self-induced urinary tract infection in school-age boys . this study focuses on a consecutive series of 31 boys , aged 5 years 3 months to 14 years 9 months , who had a first diagnosed urinary tract infection . a questionnaire administered after diagnosis revealed that 10 of these boys injected water into their urethra while taking a bath in the few days preceding the onset of infection . neither presenting symptoms nor urine tests can distinguish self-inflicted infections from infections occurring spontaneously . however , no urinary tract malformations were detected among the boys with a history of urethral manipulation whereas one third of the other 21 boys had anomalies . if these data are confirmed by other studies , complete imaging investigation could then be avoided in such cases . it could also become possible to prevent a number of urinary tract infections in school-age boys by warning parents and children of the serious risks of self-instrumentation . 
urinary incontinence . symptoms of urinary incontinence are distressing and disruptive to everyday life . they can also be indicative of more serious underlying disorders . many methods of symptom management are available . matching the affected person to the most effective and appropriate treatment method is a significant challenge for nursing . just as pressing is the need to develop and test a cogent conceptual model for symptom management that includes primary prevention . 
adrenal dysfunction in patients with renal amyloid . amyloidosis is a multi-system disease . renal involvement often leads to end-stage renal failure , which carries a poor prognosis . this paper reports the adrenal status of 22 patients with renal amyloid who were considered for or who had been commenced on renal replacement therapy . twelve patients were considered or found to have aa amyloid and the remaining 10 had al amyloid . of 16 patients tested , seven demonstrated an abnormal response to a synacthen test . four patients died at addisonian crisis and hypo-adrenalism probably contributed to the deaths of a further two patients . amyloid deposition was found in the adrenal glands in seven patients who died of systemic amyloidosis and renal failure . it is recommended that all patients with renal amyloid should have an assessment of adrenal function performed and if abnormal replacement steroid therapy should be commenced . 
a mouse model of the aniridia-wilms tumor deletion syndrome . deletion of chromosome 11p13 in humans produces the wagr syndrome , consisting of aniridia ( an absence or malformation of the iris ) , wilms tumor ( nephroblastoma ) , genitourinary malformations , and mental retardation . an interspecies backcross between mus musculus/domesticus and mus spretus was made in order to map the homologous chromosomal region in the mouse genome and to define an animal model of this syndrome . nine evolutionarily conserved dna clones from proximal human 11p were localized on mouse chromosome 2 near small-eyes ( sey ) , a semidominant mutation that is phenotypically similar to aniridia . analysis of dickie 's small-eye ( seydey ) , a poorly viable allele that has pleiotropic effects , revealed the deletion of three clones , f3 , f8 , and k13 , which encompass the aniridia ( an2 ) and wilms tumor susceptibility genes in man . unlike their human counterparts , seydey / + mice do not develop nephroblastomas . these findings suggest that the small-eye defect is genetically equivalent to human aniridia , but that loss of the murine homolog of the wilms tumor gene is not sufficient for tumor initiation . a comparison among sey alleles suggests that the an2 gene product is required for induction of the lens and nasal placodes . 
tissue , developmental , and tumor-specific expression of divergent transcripts in wilms tumor . the wilms tumor locus on chromosome 11p13 has been mapped to a region defined by overlapping , tumor-specific deletions . complementary dna clones representing transcripts of 2.5 ( wit-1 ) and 3.5 kb ( wit-2 ) mapping to this region were isolated from a kidney complementary dna library . expression of wit-1 and wit-2 was restricted to kidney and spleen . rnase protection revealed divergent transcription of wit-1 and wit-2 , originating from a dna region of less than 600 bp . both transcripts were present at high concentrations in fetal kidney and at much reduced amounts in 5-year-old and adult kidneys . eleven of 12 wilms tumors classified as histopathologically heterogeneous exhibited absent or reduced expression of wit-2 , whereas only 4 of 14 histopathologically homogeneous tumors showed reduced expression . these data demonstrate a molecular basis for the pathogenetic heterogeneity in wilms tumorigenesis . 
isolated erythroid hypoplasia and renal insufficiency induced by long-term griseofulvin therapy . we describe a patient with hematuria , pyuria , eosinophiluria , decreased renal function , and severe anemia that developed while she was receiving chronic therapy with griseofulvin for onychomycosis . we offer evidence that griseofulvin can cause an isolated erythroid hypoplasia and possibly an allergic interstitial nephritis . this is the first documented case of the above entities induced by the agent . we would recommend , based on our report , that otherwise healthy patients , when maintained on the drug for extended periods of time , have periodic determinations of renal function and hematologic status . as drug-induced erythroid hypoplasia typically occurs after a relatively long period of dosing , it may be prudent in certain individuals to monitor the cbc at approximately bimonthly intervals after initiation of therapy . recommendations regarding monitoring of renal function are more difficult , as acute allergic interstitial nephritis can occur after either short - or long-term exposure to certain drugs . 
radiation therapy of early ( stages i and ii-a ) seminoma of testis after initial orchiectomy . with initial orchiectomy and radiation therapy , the prognosis of the patients with early ( stages i and ii-a ) testicular seminoma is nearing almost 100 percent . thirty-two patients with stage i and 13 patients with stage ii-a seminoma of the testis were treated with initial orchiectomy . this was followed by estimation biochemical markers and radiologic investigations . all the patients with stage i disease received radiotherapy to the ipsilateral pelvic and para-aortic nodes . the patients with stage ii-a disease also received radiation therapy to the supradiaphragmatic regions . the disease-free survival in both groups of patients was found to be 100 percent . 
management of superficial g2 ( pta and pt1 ) bladder cancer . a total of 143 patients with superficial g2 ( pta , pt1 ) bladder cancer ( 48 g2pta ; 95 g2pt1 ) presenting between 1970 through 1987 were reviewed . of 48 patients with g2pta followed for up to eighteen years , g3 recurrence developed only in 1 ( 2.0 % ) , and invasive cancer ( greater than pt2 ) developed only in 2 ( 4.2 % ) . they both received radiotherapy and have responded completely . there have been no cancer-related deaths . in contrast , in the 95 patients in whom the basement membrane had been breached ( pt1 ) , higher grade tumor ( g3 ) developed in 11 ( 11.5 % ) , and 15 ( 16 % ) had recurrences with invasion of muscle ( greater than pt2 ) . among these there were 7 ( 7.3 % ) cancer-related deaths . 
whole bladder photodynamic therapy : critical review of present-day technology and rationale for development of intravesical laser catheter and monitoring system . present-day whole bladder photodynamic therapy ( wbpdt ) is cumbersome and time consuming because cystoscopic and ultrasonic manipulations are necessary to position the light emitter within the bladder . more important , wbpdt is inherently unsafe and often ineffective since neither uniform photoirradiation nor accurate light dosimetry can be achieved with the techniques employed to photoirradiate the bladder wall . the intravesical laser catheter ( ivlc ) eliminates the need for cystoscopy and ultrasonography because passage of the treatment fiber into the catheter 's central lumen automatically positions its light-diffusing tip within the center of the bladder . use of the ivlc delivery system also assures accurate photoirradiation of the bladder wall since inflation of the catheter 's balloon transforms the asymmetric bladder into a sphere of known diameter . the light sensor incorporated in the balloon wall provides a method to monitor light fluence and measure total light dose . when provided the parameters of bladder volume , laser energy output , and desired light dose , the computerized control system calculates treatment time and automatically adjusts the period of photoirradiation to compensate for variations in laser light production , energy losses during transmission , and for variations in light intensity resulting from the integrating sphere effect of the bladder wall . this delivery system also increases the safety of wbpdt since the monitor automatically discontinues treatment if any unsafe situation , with respect to light fluence , develops during photoirradiation . 
stress incontinence : a new endoscopic approach . we describe our experience in using a new endoscopic technique for suspending the bladder neck and urethra in 16 patients with stress incontinence . the procedure was started by dissecting the retropubic space , first with a sound and then with a foley catheter before passing an absorbable suture from the abdominal fascia to the bladder neck using an elbowed needle introduced into the bladder through the neck and exteriorized through the urethra . the dissection of the retropubic space helped to form postoperative adherences which fixed the bladder neck and the urethra firmly to the pubic symphysis . the technique is simple , it does not require vaginal surgery , and the incidence of complications is minimal . 
biochemical evaluation of calcium stone patients : how soon can it be done after stone surgery/passage ? biochemical evaluations were done two times for 29 outpatients with calcium stone disease , the first time within one month after surgical extraction or passage of stones and the second time two months or more later . classification of the etiologic basis for the stone disease was the same after both tests in 27 patients . in the other 2 patients the diagnosis was changed from renal to absorptive hypercalciuria . both of these patients had creatinine clearance rates less than 60 percent of normal during the first test . one also had multiple residual stones during both evaluations , and the second had a urinary tract infection during the first test that resolved with a normal creatinine clearance by the second test period . when nephrogenous cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( campn ) assays were done on fasting specimens in these patients , the results were consistent with absorptive hypercalciuria . almost all patients can be evaluated and placed in management programs within a few weeks after surgery . if campn assays are not done , patients with decreased renal function secondary to residual stones or infection can be tested at a later time . 
prognostic implications of disappearance rate of biologic markers following radical prostatectomy . six patients with localized prostatic carcinoma undergoing radical prostatectomy were studied by serial sample collection from the time of surgical removal of the prostate up to one week in the postoperative period . of the three markers studied ( pap , psa , lasa ) , half-life of specific prostatic markers were calculated . half-life of pap was found to be 7.25 hours + / - se of 0.7 hours . for psa the half-life could be obtained in 4 of 6 patients and was found to be 45.5 hours + / - se 4.9 hours . in 2 patients psa did not fall in a regular fashion and half-life could not be obtained . in both patients metastatic disease has developed within six months of surgery . lasa demonstrated progressive increase following surgery , most likely due to associated inflammatory reaction . these studies confirm previous observations that psa is a more sensitive marker than pap , and that the presence of an elevated psa after radical prostatectomy denotes the presence of residual disease . 
use of distal thiersch-duplay urethroplasty for proximal hypospadias repairs in conjunction with short island pedicle flap . experience with 8 boys having proximal hypospadias with severe chordee and a foreshortened dorsal hooded foreskin is presented . use of a distal thiersch-duplay tube was incorporated in addition to an island pedicle flap to achieve the correct meatal location on the glans . one boy with perineal hypospadias required both proximal and distal thiersch tube with an island flap interposition . follow-up of nine months to 3.5 years demonstrated excellent cosmetic and functional results with no recurrent chordee or urethral stenosis . the only fistula noted developed at the proximal thiersch tube-island flap anastomosis in the boy with perineal hypospadias . advantages of the aforementioned procedure include decreasing the risk of chordee on the basis of a foreshortened island pedicle flap , use of vascularized flaps , and completing the procedure in one stage with a satisfactory result . 
magnetic resonance imaging of cystic , partially differentiated nephroblastoma . the magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) appearance of a cystic , partially differentiated nephroblastoma is described , together with pathologic correlation . the difficulty in reaching a correct preoperative diagnosis even with multimodal imaging techniques is emphasized . mri is an adjunct to ultrasonography and may be superior to computerized tomography ( ct ) scan in the evaluation of a child with multiloculated cystic renal mass . 
radiologic staging of chest in testicular seminoma . we investigated the usefulness of chest x-ray ( cxr ) , conventional planar tomography ( tom ) , and computerized axial tomography ( cat ) in evaluating patients with stages i and ii testicular seminoma . all patients had a cxr , and 22 patients had either tom or cat as part of initial staging . no occult pulmonary or mediastinal nodal disease was found during initial staging , and none of the patients manifested recurrence of tumor in these sites as a first event . review of the literature corroborates our finding of a very small thoracic failure rate in early stage seminoma . routine use of cat or tom is not indicated in staging these patients . 
urodynamic tests for female geriatric urinary incontinence . most urodynamic tests currently in use in the evaluation of female urinary incontinence have not been applied to a community-based sample to determine their specificity . in this study of a random sample of noninstitutionalized elderly , 258 self-reported continent and 198 self-reported incontinent women sixty years and older , who participated in a household survey , underwent a clinic evaluation ( history , physical examination , and urinalysis ) ; of these 67 continent and 100 incontinent female respondents underwent urodynamic testing . the uroflowmetry , cystometry , and supine static urethral pressure profilometry ( upp ) findings did not differ significantly between continent and incontinent subjects ( whether based on a self-report or a clinician 's diagnosis of urinary continence status ) . standing static and dynamic upp and lateral cystography showed significant differences between self-reported continent and incontinent respondents . the provocative stress test significantly distinguishes continence from incontinence , and stress incontinence from other types . the sensitivity of the provocative stress test was 39.5 percent , whereas its specificity is 98.5 percent . urodynamic testing including uroflow study , static upp , and lateral cystography should not be used as a screening test but rather selectively as a confirmatory test , and to determine the therapeutic approach , and to assess the outcome of therapy . 
influence of high-energy shock waves and cisplatin on antitumor effect in murine bladder cancer . the potential application of high-energy shock waves ( hesw ) for control of experimental bladder cancer was investigated . subcutaneous 3-d murine bladder cancer ( mbt-2 ) in c3h mice were exposed to hesw alone ( 250 to 1,500 shocks ) or in combination with cisplatin ( 5 to 10 mg/kg , i.p. ) . although hesw alone showed no influence on tumor growth , hesw/cisplatin combination therapy suppressed tumor growth more than cisplatin alone . subsequent studies revealed that an air-fluid interface relative to tumor location played a pivotal role for the chemosensitizing effect of hesw . hesw treatment was able to enhance the cisplatin cytotoxicity only when the tumors were placed adjacent to the air-fluid interface . 
prostatic-type epithelium in urinary bladder . clinical , histologic , and immunohistochemical study . six cases of urinary bladder mucosa with prostate-type epithelium were studied clinically , morphologically , and immunohistochemically . all patients were male with an average age of fifty-three years ; most presented with painless hematuria . histologically , two types of lesions were observed , the polypoid located in various sites of the bladder wall and the flat lesion found in the bladder neck . both lesions shared in common a prostatic-type and transitional surface epithelium while prostatic-type glands were prominent in the polypoid lesion . the prostatic-type epithelium was confirmed immunohistochemically by detection of prostatic specific antigen and prostatic acid phosphatase . based on specific findings we considered the metaplasia as the most reliable histogenetic aspect . 
oncocytic renal tubular adenoma ( so-called oncocytoma ) in seventeen-year-old girl . renal tubular neoplasms ( adenomas or adenocarcinomas ) are rare in children or young adults . herein , we report an oncocytic renal tubular adenoma ( so-called oncocytoma ) that was found in a seventeen-year-old girl . preoperative evaluation included aspiration of this tumor , and we suggest that preoperative aspiration is an important procedure in the diagnosis and management of suspected renal tumors in children and young adults . 
intravesical condyloma acuminatum with progression to verrucous carcinoma . condyloma acuminatum is a common form of venereal disease . most patients with condylomata acuminata suffer from only the local cosmetic and irritative effects of the lesions . few patients have progression to aggressive , regionally distributed lesions that can be life-threatening . we describe a forty-three-year-old white woman who had a seventeen-year history of scleroderma with extravesical and intravesical condylomata acuminata . during two years of conservative management with transurethral excision , electrocoagulation , and intravesical chemotherapy , the disease progressed to involve the entire bladder and resulted in obstructive renal insufficiency that required anterior exenteration and urinary diversion . the natural history of the disease is described , and the relevant literature is reviewed . 
in treating impotence , urology and sex therapy are complementary . urologists and mental health professionals are neither competitors nor adversaries . the principles of sex therapy represent a thoughtful and sensitive way to approach patients with almost any clinical problem so that they are more comfortable with the recommended tests or treatments . sex therapy may be very helpful as an adjunct in treating " organic " as well as primarily emotional erectile dysfunction . we believe that with information we can help build a bridge between urologists and mental health professionals . 
diagnosis and treatment of prostatic infections . the diagnosis and management of prostatitis and pelviperineal pain is a challenge to the clinician . careful examination of the prostatic fluid and bacteriologic cultures to differentiate bacterial from nonbacterial prostatitis are essential . antimicrobial therapy is effective in the majority of men with acute or chronic bacterial prostatitis . nonbacterial prostatitis is the most common type of prostatitis . the etiology is unknown and treatment with repeated antimicrobial therapy is ineffective . alpha-blocking agents may relieve symptomatology . pelviperineal pain may be of prostatic origin but other nonprostatic causes should be sought . 
applications of prostate ultrasonography . transrectal ultrasonography is a relatively new imaging modality that may be useful in the evaluation and management of patients with prostate cancer . although cancer may have a characteristic appearance , it can not always be reliably differentiated from benign conditions . while this technique has clinical applications in staging , monitoring tumor response to therapy , and assisting in biopsy , it is unclear as to whether useful information is obtained in the evaluation of patients with palpable disease . the role of transrectal ultrasonography in patients with nonpalpable disease or as a screening tool has yet to be determined . other diagnostic tests in conjunction with ultrasound may in the future prove to be useful . carefully performed prospective investigations with state-of-the-art equipment are still needed to further define the role of this diagnostic modality . 
experimental contrast-associated nephropathy and its clinical implications . acute renal failure after contrast media injection has been recognized for at least 35 years but the exact mechanism responsible for the renal injury remains an enigma . the clinical characteristics of contrast-induced nephropathy ( can ) are well-known although more recently the nonoliguric presentation has occurred at an increased frequency -- in 70 to 90 % of cases . for nonoliguric presentation of can , one can expect an asymptomatic increase in serum creatinine , the mean peak occurring at 4.2 days . if oliguric , the fractional excretion of sodium will be less than 1 % and resistant to either fluid challenge or loop diuretics . preexisting renal insufficiency , with or without diabetes mellitus , increases the risk of can 6 - to 10-fold but recovery is expected , with less than 10 % of all patients requiring dialytic support . despite the growing body of published reports , the lack of a suitable animal model to evaluate various proposed mechanisms of renal injury has compromised our ability to devise a technique for preventing can . a popular scheme has been proposed to describe the possible sequence by which ischemia or nephrotoxins , or both , induce acute renal failure . in particular , a vascular mechanism ( i.e. , ischemia ) , is an appealing explanation for can since acute changes in renal hemodynamics after contrast media injection have been confirmed by several animal experiments . unlike other vascular beds in which contrast media induce acute vasoconstriction followed by vasodilatation , the initial effect on the renal circulation is acute vasodilatation , followed by progressive vasoconstriction , increasing renal vascular resistance and a concomitant decrease in both renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate . 
survey of histologic specimens of human cancer for human papillomavirus types 6/11/16 / 18 by filter in situ hybridization . histologic specimens ( 317 ) of genital and nongenital cancers and normal tissue were analyzed for the presence of the dna of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) 6 , 11 , 16 , and 18 by filter in situ hybridization performed on paraffin-embedded , formalin-fixed tissue ( histofish ) . hpv dna was found in 73 of 172 ( 42 % ) anogenital lesions and 17 of 116 ( 15 % ) nonanogenital carcinomas . no hpv dna was found in normal mouse skin ( five samples ) , human autopsy liver ( two samples ) , or kidney ( eight samples ) , or in carcinomas of the breast ( three samples ) , bladder ( five samples ) , or colon ( nine samples ) . of the nongenital tumors , hpv dna was found in the carcinomas of the lung ( 2 of 5 ) , anus ( 7 of 18 ) , esophagus ( 9 of 39 ) , buccal cavity ( 1 of 5 ) , and larynx ( 5 of 50 ) . hpv dna was also detected in 2 of 11 histologically normal specimens of the cervix and 1 of 3 human skin lesions . the detection of hpv dna in carcinomas of the lung , larynx , and esophagus as well as in the anogenital region confirms recent suggestions that hpv types 6 , 11 , 16 , and 18 have a wider association with different types of cancer than previously believed . the study also shows that histofish is a useful method for detecting hpv-dna in histologic specimens . 
mucinous adenocarcinoma of the prostate with endobronchial metastasis . endobronchial metastases can manifest clinical symptoms and x-ray findings mimicking a centrally located bronchogenic carcinoma . the authors recently encountered a case of endobronchial metastasis from a mucinous adenocarcinoma of the prostate that was originally diagnosed as a primary bronchogenic carcinoma . the correct diagnosis was made on the basis of the morphologic similarities between the primary prostatic lesion and the lung lesion and was corroborated by immunohistochemical analyses . 
extracorporeal removal of anti-hla antibodies in transplant candidates . we report on the results of a clinical trial in which 14 transplant candidates were treated with an extracorporeal immunoadsorption system using protein a that selectively removes immunoglobulin from plasma ; we also assessed the dynamics of anti-hla antibody as a model of igg removal and re-equilibration , as well as the clinical safety of the procedure . at the end of a treatment course , plasma igg levels were reduced by 90 % + / - 8 % of control values ( p less than 0.01 ) . in contrast , albumin levels were reduced by only 15 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . specific cytotoxic anti-hla antibody titers were reduced by approximately 18-fold . panel reactivity was measured as the proportion of a 40-member cell donor panel killed by patients ' serum in the presence of complement ; in nine of the 14 patients , there was a significant reduction in this parameter ( range , 23 % to 87 % ) . during the 4-week follow-up period , anti-hla antibody titers returned to baseline levels . there were no remarkable changes observed in blood chemistries , nor were there any unanticipated adverse reactions seen in the patients treated . we conclude that selective extracorporeal immunoadsorption is a safe and effective way of removing igg-type antibodies , with potential application to reduction of hla antibodies in transplant candidates . 
adult minimal change glomerulopathy with acute renal failure . oliguric acute renal failure occurs in some adult patients with minimal change glomerulopathy . to look for clinical and pathologic factors that increase the risk for developing acute renal failure , 21 adults with minimal change glomerulopathy and a serum creatinine greater than 177 mumol/l ( mean , 486 mumol/l ; range , 194 to 1,344 mumol/l ) ( greater than 2.0 mg/dl [ mean , 5.5 mg/dl ; range , 2.2 to 15.2 mg/dl ] ) were compared with 50 adults with minimal change glomerulopathy and a serum creatinine less than 133 mumol/l ( mean , 88 mumol/l ; range , 53 to 124 mumol/l ) ( less than 1.5 mg/dl [ mean , 1.0 mg/dl ; range , 0.6 to 1.4 mg/dl ] ) . minimal change glomerulopathy patients with acute renal failure were older ( 59.5 v 40.3 years , p less than 0.001 ) , and had higher systolic blood pressure ( 158 v 138 mm hg , p = 0.001 ) , more proteinuria ( 13.5 v 7.9 g/24 h , p = 0.01 ) , and more arteriosclerosis in the renal biopsy specimen ( 1.7 + v 0.7 + on a scale of 0 to 4 + , p = 0.005 ) . tubular epithelial simplification identical to that observed with ischemic acute renal failure ( acute tubular necrosis ) was observed in 71 % of the patients with serum creatinine greater than 177 mumol/l ( greater than 2.0 mg/dl ) and 0 % of those with less than 133 mumol/l ( less than 1.5 mg/dl ) . all 18 patients with renal failure for whom follow-up data were available had recovery of function ( mean creatinine , 539 + / - 301 mumol/l [ 6.1 + / - 3.4 mg/dl ] at the time of biopsy and 106 + / - 27 mumol/l [ 1.2 + / - 0.3 mg/dl ] at last follow-up ) , but sometimes only after weeks of dialysis support . 
body fluid spaces and blood pressure in hemodialysis patients during amelioration of anemia with erythropoietin . blood pressure ( bp ) may increase in hemodialysis patients during treatment of anemia with recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) . since fluid volume is a determinant of bp in dialysis patients , changes in body fluid spaces during r-huepo therapy could affect bp . thus , 51cr-labeled red blood cell ( rbc ) volume , inulin extracellular fluid ( ecf ) volume , and urea total body water ( tbw ) , as well as cardiac output , plasma renin activity ( pra ) , and plasma aldosterone concentration were determined postdialysis before and after r-huepo therapy in patients in whom changes in bp could be managed by ultrafiltration alone . eleven patients entered the study : one had a renal transplant and two required addition of antihypertensive drug therapy and were excluded ; eight , of whom two required antihypertensive drug therapy following the study , were included in the analyses . results revealed an increase in predialysis hemoglobin from 67 to 113 g/l ( 6.7 to 11.3 g/dl ) ( p = 0.001 ) during 18 + / - 6 weeks of therapy . predialysis diastolic bp increased from 80 to 85 mm hg ( p = 0.07 ) , while postdialysis diastolic bp was unchanged at 73 mm hg . 51cr-rbc volume increased , from 0.7 to 1.3 l ( p = 0.004 ) . ecf tended to decrease , from 13.7 to 10.8 l ( p = 0.064 ) , while tbw decreased to a similar extent , but not significantly , 34.3 to 31.2 l ( p = 0.16 ) . postdialysis ecf volume was positively correlated with mean arterial bp at baseline ( r = 0.89 , p = 0.007 ) and after therapy ( r = 0.74 , p = 0.035 ) . however , the regression lines for this relationship were different ( p = 0.022 ) before and after therapy . 
ten-year prospective study on the development of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients . a prospective study was undertaken to investigate the development of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients . three renal cell carcinomas were detected among 96 hemodialysis patients in 1979 , and screening by computed tomographic ( ct ) scan was continued yearly until 1989 . during this 10-year period , one renal cell carcinoma was found in the second year and another in the ninth year . autopsy performed on seven of 19 patients who died showed one case of small clear cell carcinoma accompanying acquired cystic disease . in 33 males , kidneys were found to have enlarged 2.7 + / - 1.7 times over the 10-year follow-up due to acquired cysts , while no change in kidney volume was noted in 24 females . native kidneys in nine of 12 patients who maintained functioning grafts were reduced in size . the patient with the largest kidney enlargement ( 11.5 times ) died from retroperitoneal bleeding in 1989 . these prospective study results suggest that both the incidence and prevalence of renal cell carcinoma in dialysis patients is high . furthermore , major complications of acquired renal cystic disease seem to occur predominantly in males . 
etiology of hypercalcemia in hemodialysis patients on calcium carbonate therapy . fourteen of 39 dialysis patients ( 36 % ) became hypercalcemic after switching to calcium carbonate as their principal phosphate binder . in order to identify risk factors associated with the development of hypercalcemia , indirect parameters of intestinal calcium reabsorption and bone turnover rate in these 14 patients were compared with results in 14 eucalcemic patients matched for age , sex , length of time on dialysis , and etiology of renal disease . in addition to experiencing hypercalcemic episodes with peak calcium values of 2.7 to 3.8 mmol/l ( 10.7 to 15.0 mg/dl ) , patients in the hypercalcemic group exhibited a significant increase in the mean calcium concentration obtained during 6 months before the switch , compared with the mean value obtained during the 7 months of observation after the switch ( 2.4 + / - 0.03 to 2.5 + / - 0.03 mmol/l [ 9.7 + / - 0.2 to 10.2 + / - 0.1 mg/dl ] , p = 0.006 ) . in contrast , eucalcemic patients exhibited no change in mean calcium values over the same time period ( 2.3 + / - 0.05 to 2.3 + / - 0.05 mmol/l [ 9.2 + / - 0.2 to 9.2 + / - 0.2 mg/dl ] ) . caco3 dosage , calculated dietary calcium intake , and circulating levels of vitamin d metabolites were similar in both groups . physical activity index and predialysis serum bicarbonate levels also were similar in both groups . however , there was a significant difference in parameters reflecting bone turnover rates between groups . 
ultrasonography in the differentiation of complicated and uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis . differentiation of uncomplicated pyelonephritis versus complicated pyelonephritis has always been problematic . no clear physical signs or symptoms are diagnostic . to study differences between the two , we retrospectively reviewed charts of patients admitted to charity hospital , new orleans , with febrile urinary tract infections . criteria for inclusion were pyuria , positive urinary culture , and signs or symptoms of pyelonephritis . all patients underwent renal ultrasonography ( us ) before other diagnostic tests . us identified a potential emergency ( hydronephrosis or abscess ) in 11 of 98 patients ( 11.2 % ) . the only significant contributing factor was the presence of diabetes mellitus , which was present in five of 11 emergent conditions and eight of 73 of the remainder ( p = 0.003 ) . us is inexpensive , easily obtainable in the emergency room , and sensitive enough to screen patients with pyelonephritis for complications . however , we believe it is mandatory in diabetics , because of the high incidence of abnormalities in this population . 
tubulointerstitial changes in systemic vasculitic disorders : a quantitative study of 18 biopsy cases . tubulointerstitial alterations were studied in 18 biopsy cases of systemic vasculitis . to evaluate the changes more objectively , two indexes , the number of interstitial inflammatory cells and tubulitis percentage , were used . the group means of both of these indexes were statistically higher than those of the autopsy control group , while 14 of the cases ( 77.8 % ) showed a significant difference ( p less than 0.01 ) between individual means and the control group means . on the other hand , tubulointerstitial changes in systemic vasculitis seemed to be less prominent than drug-induced tubulointerstitial nephritis ( tin ) according to these indexes . however , comparing these indexes with those of drug-induced tin , six cases ( 33.3 % ) of systemic angiitis could be regarded as having developed pathologic changes similar to tin . statistical difference was not shown in the indexes between those patients with histologic evidence of necrotizing angiitis and those without it . clinically , urinary n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase ( nag ) was abnormally high in all three examined cases , reflecting the damage of renal tubular epithelial cells . not only the vascular and glomerular lesions , but also tubulointerstitial changes , should be evaluated in the renal biopsy specimen of systemic vasculitis . 
the role of aluminum in the functional iron deficiency of patients treated with erythropoietin : case report of clinical characteristics and response to treatment . the quantitative variation among patients in their response to erythropoietin can be explained , in part , by factors that can independently cause anemia in patients with end-stage renal disease . aluminum can blunt the effect of erythropoietin , in part by interfering with iron bioavailability . this inhibitory effect can not be completely overcome by aggressive ferrotherapy , but can be reversed with aluminum chelation therapy . a patient is described who developed hematological evidence of aluminum excess after being treated with erythropoietin . the biochemical evidence of functional iron deficiency and the response to aluminum chelation therapy support the hypothesis that the inhibitory effect of aluminum on erythropoiesis is mediated by the interference of aluminum with the bioavailability of iron . 
temporary loss of limb function secondary to soft tissue calcification in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure . a case of unusually severe soft tissue calcification with temporary loss of limb function in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure ( arf ) is described . a large dose of intravenous ( iv ) calcium was administered early in the hospital course to treat hypocalcemia , and hemodialysis , when initiated , was with a 1.75-mmol / l calcium dialysate . this case illustrates the danger of administering calcium supplementation and raises questions about the use of normal to high dialysate calcium concentration in the early stages of rhabdomyolysis-induced oliguric arf . calcium supplementation should be reserved for patients with clear clinical signs of hypocalcemia and dialysate calcium should be adjusted to prevent excessive positive calcium balance . 
the future of nephrology . the cellular and molecular age of nephrology has dawned and the future is remarkably exciting . the successful attack on the major causes of renal disease , including genetic diseases , glomerulonephritis , diabetes , vasculitis , acute renal failure , and hypertension , will necessitate improved knowledge about pathogenesis . this new knowledge will allow early detection and target-specific therapies , the array of which is only limited by our imagination . the challenge to be an active player in this exciting future as a physician-scientist in the field of nephrology is indeed a rare opportunity . 
beta 2-microglobulin predicts survival in primary systemic amyloidosis . purpose : the study assessed whether beta 2-microglobulin levels predict survival or response in patients with primary systemic amyloidosis without associated multiple myeloma . patients and methods : the study group consisted of 131 untreated patients with biopsy-proven primary systemic amyloidosis diagnosed and evaluated at the mayo clinic . no patient had multiple myeloma . the minimum follow-up of surviving patients is 8 years . no patient was lost to follow-up . results : the median survival of patients with an increased beta 2-microglobulin level was 10.8 months , compared with patients with a normal beta 2-microglobulin level ( less than or equal to 2.7 micrograms/ml , 0.23 mumol/l ) of 32.9 months ( p less than 0.001 ) . in a multivariate proportional-hazards model , the best model included congestive heart failure ( p less than 0.0001 ) and increased beta 2-microglobulin levels ( p less than 0.05 ) . after adjustment for the presence of congestive heart failure , beta 2-microglobulin level remained significant . when the analysis was restricted to those patients with normal renal function , the median survival of those with an elevated beta 2-microglobulin level was 9.1 months versus 39.4 months for those with a normal level ( p less than 0.001 ) . the serum level of beta 2-microglobulin was increased in patients with nephrotic-range proteinuria with or without renal insufficiency ( p = 0.05 ) . conclusion : the serum beta 2-microglobulin level should be measured routinely in all patients with primary systemic amyloidosis because it provides a useful objective factor to identify subsets of patients with this disease who have unfavorable outcomes . 
contrast nephropathy in azotemic diabetic patients undergoing coronary angiography . purpose : to evaluate the incidence of , risk factors for , and outcome of contrast nephropathy in azotemic diabetic patients undergoing coronary angiography . patients and methods : fifty-nine insulin-dependent diabetics with a mean serum creatinine level of 522 mumol/l ( 5.9 mg/dl ) underwent coronary angiography as part of a pretransplant evaluation . twenty-four azotemic diabetics undergoing inpatient evaluation not including angiography for transplantation formed the control group . serum creatinine measurements obtained at baseline and after radiocontrast exposure were compared in patients and control subjects . risk factors for contrast nephropathy were evaluated in patients with a 25 % or greater increase in serum creatinine . results : serum creatinine was significantly elevated 24 hours after radiocontrast exposure in patients ( 557 + / - 141 mumol/l versus 522 + / - 141 mumol/l , mean + / - sd ; p less than 0.001 ) but not in controls . seven patients required dialysis within 6 days of coronary angiography and two additional patients required dialysis within 14 days . contrast nephropathy , defined as a serum creatinine increase of greater than 25 % when measured 48 hours after radiocontrast exposure , occurred in 50 % of patients and no controls . univariate analysis of risk factors for contrast nephropathy revealed a significant association with dye quantity ( p = 0.002 ) , mean arterial pressure less than 100 mm hg ( p = 0.02 ) , and ejection fraction less than 50 % ( p = 0.04 ) . stepwise logistic regression verified the independence of dye quantity and low mean arterial pressure but not low ejection fraction as risk factors for contrast nephropathy . follow-up serum creatinine values were not significantly different in patients and control subjects . conclusions : azotemic patients with diabetes are at high risk of developing contrast nephropathy even when less than 100 ml of radiocontrast agent is used . the acute renal failure is reversible but precipitates the need for short-term dialysis in some patients . radiocontrast quantity is an important risk factor not previously noted . the incidence of contrast nephropathy can be minimized by using less than 30 ml of radiocontrast agent . 
the " stuck twin " phenomenon : ultrasonographic findings , pregnancy outcome , and management with serial amniocenteses . thirteen consecutive twin pregnancies affected by the " stuck twin " phenomenon were reviewed to determine the potential benefit of serial amniocenteses . the fetal survival rate for the eight pregnancies that underwent serial amniocenteses was 69 % ( 11 of 16 fetuses ) . this is significantly improved compared with a fetal survival rate of 20 % among the five preceding pregnancies managed without serial amniocenteses at the same institution ( p = 0.01 ) . it is also markedly improved compared with a combined fetal survival rate of 16 % among 48 previously reported pregnancies with the stuck twin phenomenon managed without serial amniocenteses ( p less than 0.0001 ) . survival correlated with the absence of concomitant pregnancy complications ( i.e. , maternal hypertension or intractable labor ) and with the absence of severe fetal structural abnormalities . procedural complications occurred in three of eight pregnancies ( 37.5 % ) managed with serial amniocenteses and was attributed as a cause of fetal death in one case . two of 11 survivors ( 18 % ) had complications after serial amniocenteses including brain infarction and renal tubular necrosis . serial amniocenteses may significantly improve the survival rate of twin gestations affected by the stuck twin phenomenon but may be associated with complications among survivors . 
a comparison of sperm antibody assays . cytotoxicity and immunobead-binding immunoglobulin g assays agreed in 81 % of sera from infertile men ( n = 173 ) , 74 % of sera from their wives , 75 % of seminal plasma , and 82 % of cervical mucous samples ( p less than 0.001 ; chi 2 analysis of positive and negative results ) when tested against sperm from the same donors . cytotoxic and immunofluorescent igg antibody results agreed in 79 % of sera from men and women , 76 % of seminal plasma , and 76 % of cervical mucus ( p less than 0.001 ; chi 2 analysis of positive and negative results ) . titers or percent binding of sperm by cytotoxicity , hemagglutination , and igg immunobead-binding or immunofluorescence assays in serum and secretions of husbands and wives correlated ( p less than 0.001 ) . a significantly increased number of positive results was observed in cytotoxic and immunobead-binding igg assays when the husbands ' and donors ' sperm were used rather than donors ' sperm alone . on the basis of this study we conclude : ( 1 ) that cytotoxicity , immunobead-binding igg , and immunofluorescent igg sperm antibody assays correlate when sperm from the same source are used , ( 2 ) that women 's isoimmunity to husbands ' sperm is associated with their husbands ' autoimmunity to sperm irrespective of the assay , and ( 3 ) that it is desirable to use sperm from the husbands and nonautoimmune fertile men in these assays . 
a , b blood group antigens in tissues of ab heterozygotes . emphasis on normal and neoplastic urothelium . the tissue distribution of the a and b blood group antigens was studied in 41 individuals with the heterozygous ab red blood cell ( rbc ) phenotype . a total of 134 biopsies from a variety of normal tissues ( 94 from urothelium and 40 from other tissues ) were examined . in addition , changes in the expression of these antigens associated with neoplastic transformation were evaluated in 70 biopsies from transitional cell carcinomas of 19 ab heterozygous patients . there was heterogeneity in the distribution of tissue a and b antigens , depending on the cell type , as well as among cells of the same type . ninety-one percent of ab heterozygotes expressed both a and b antigens in normal epithelial cells , with a mosaic distribution clearly apparent in 50 % of these individuals . in 21 % of these subjects , the a antigen was undetectable in the vascular endothelial cells in all biopsies from several organs . in most ( 79 % ) transitional cell neoplasms , only one of the two antigens was consistently expressed . the results of this study may have implications for the clonal or specific gene deletion theories of neoplasia . they also demonstrate the existence of a subgroup of ab individuals in whom the a antigen is absent specifically from the vascular endothelium . 
protein a-gold immunoelectron microscopic study of amyloid fibrils , granular deposits , and fibrillar luminal aggregates in renal amyloidosis . glomeruli of archival renal biopsies , stored frozen at -70 degrees c , from three patients with amyloid were examined by protein a-gold immunoelectron microscopy . in one with both fibrillar and granular deposits from a ' skin popper ' drug abuser , the granular deposits were labeled with anti-igg , while the fibrillar deposits were labeled with anti-amyloid-a ( aa ) protein and amyloid p component ( ap ) , suggesting coexisting immune complex disease and aa due to different , but possibly related , pathogenesis . in studies using double-label immunostaining of primary amyloidosis-lambda light chain type ( al ) and aa associated with crohn 's disease , ap occurred as widely separated single units along the amyloid fibrils and represented 1.5 % and 6.5 % of the total gold label in al and aa , respectively , while the major fibril protein was labeled in single rows , similar to beads on a string . fibrillar aggregates in the capillary lumens were labeled similarly by antisera to the major protein and ap and appeared to be contiguous with the fibrillar deposits at the glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) - luminal interface , suggesting intravascular fibrillogenesis . 
algorithm for assessing renal dysfunction risk in critically ill trauma patients receiving aminoglycosides . a recent retrospective study proposed that the following screening criteria be used in identifying critically ill trauma patients receiving aminoglycosides who are at significant risk to develop renal dysfunction : ( 1 ) post-admission shock , ( 2 ) minimum serum concentration more than 2 mg/l , and ( 3 ) diagnosis of septicemia . the major purpose of the present study was to validate these criteria and design a corresponding algorithm for clinical use . all patients admitted to a trauma intensive care unit and receiving an aminoglycosides was also studied . all patients studied over a 7-month period . a control group not receiving aminoglycosides was also studied . all patients were evaluated for the presence of renal dysfunction ( i.e. , serum creatinine increase greater than or equal to 0.5 mg/dl ) . univariate and multivariate statistical analyses were used to compare potential associated risk factors . the overall renal dysfunction incidence was 10 % in the treatment patients ( n = 93 ) versus 5 % in the control patients ( n = 199 ) ( p = 0.13 ) . sensitivity and specificity of the screening criteria were 67 % and 92 % , respectively . the predictive values of a positive and negative test relative to correctly labeling patients at high risk or low risk to develop renal dysfunction were 46 % and 96 % , respectively . major risk factors associated with renal dysfunction in the treatment group were post-admission shock , minimum serum concentration more than 2 mg/l , and liver dysfunction . use of three major risk factors has excellent predictive value in identifying severely traumatized patients at low risk for developing renal dysfunction while receiving aminoglycosides . the modest predictive value of a positive test results in conservative management of patients by avoidance of aminoglycosides , i.e. , use of alternative antimicrobial agents . 
prolonged neuromuscular blockade with vecuronium in a neonate with renal failure . an 11-day-old neonate with renal failure caused by dysplastic kidneys was anaesthetised with thiopentone , vecuronium , nitrous oxide and oxygen , for insertion of a long-term peritoneal dialysis catheter . complete neuromuscular block of 210 minutes ' duration ensued after the initial dose of vecuronium ( 97 micrograms/kg ) . partial block persisted for a further 30 minutes . the prolonged neuromuscular block in this case may have been because of proportionately greater dependence on renal clearance of vecuronium in neonates . 
prediction of acute renal failure after birth asphyxia . twenty-one babies of 34-41 weeks ' gestational age with birth asphyxia ( 5 minute apgar score less than or equal to 5 or umbilical artery ph less than or equal to 7.2 ) were studied during the first two days of life to find out whether the urinary excretion of tubular markers of renal function is of value in the early diagnosis of acute renal failure . urinary retinol binding protein , myoglobin , and n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase ( nag ) , expressed as a ratio with urinary creatinine , were measured and excretion profiles repeated at 3-6 days in 15 infants and at 7-14 days in 11 infants . plasma creatinine concentration , creatinine clearance , plasma myoglobin concentration , and fractional sodium excretion were measured where possible in asphyxiated infants . control data were obtained from 50 healthy infants : 28 gave urine samples alone , 17 urine and blood , and five blood alone . normal urinary values were derived from 17 , 25 , and three infants , respectively , for the three time periods . the number of control samples was limited for ethical reasons . four asphyxiated infants had acute renal failure ( group 1 ) , four had tubular dysfunction without glomerular disturbance ( group 2 ) and 13 had normal renal function ( group 3 ) . group 1 were clearly identified by greatly increased urinary retinol binding protein ( greater than 27,000 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) and myoglobin ( greater than 1500 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) excretion measured in the first two days of life . in control infants the range of excretion of retinol binding protein within the same time period was 3 to 967 micrograms/mmol creatinine and urinary myoglobin was undetectable . excretion of nag failed to discriminate between groups 1 and 2 . 
intraoperative blood pressure . what patterns identify patients at risk for postoperative complications ? while monitoring blood pressure is a routine part of intraoperative management , several methods have been proposed to characterize intraoperative hemodynamic patterns as predictors of postoperative complications . in this prospective study of a high-risk population of hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective noncardiac surgery , one objective was to compare different approaches to the assessment of intraoperative hemodynamic patterns to identify those patterns most likely to be associated with postoperative complications . twenty-one per cent of the 254 patients sustained cardiac or renal complications after operation . patients with more than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases in mean arterial pressure ( map ) or patients with less than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases and more than 15 minutes of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg increases were at highest risk for postoperative complications . together these two patterns had a 46 % sensitivity rate and a 70 % specificity rate in predicting postoperative complications . using 20 % change in intraoperative map produced results nearly identical to 20-mmhg changes . when the duration of 20-mmhg changes was accounted for , changes of a greater magnitude ( e.g. , 40 mmhg ) were not significant independent predictors of complications . the use of the mean difference from preoperative map was misleading because patients who experienced both high and low maps tended to have nearly normal mean maps , but high complication rates . the absolute magnitude of intraoperative maps , regardless of the preoperative levels , also was evaluated . the overall mean intraoperative map was not a significant predictor of complications . specific intraoperative maps ( e.g. , less than 70 mmhg and more than 120 mmhg ) also were evaluated . while neither was a significant predictor , there was a trend for increased complications among patients whose maps decreased to less than 70 mmhg . intraoperative blood pressure should be analyzed in relation to the patient 's preoperative blood pressure . prolonged changes of more than 20 mmhg or 20 % in relation to preoperative levels were significantly related to complications . 
prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure , but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique . one hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ecmo over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight , gestational age , age at initiation of ecmo , best blood gases before ecmo , number of hours on ecmo , renal failure , intracerebral hemorrhage , and long-distance air transport had on survival . infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ecmo , with survivors having more normal ph and carbon dioxide tension values . intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ecmo were grave prognostic signs , with few survivors in either group . these data show that ability to ventilate patients before ecmo , giving normal carbon dioxide tension and ph values , is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ecmo , whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ecmo . each center performing ecmo should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications . 
role of perfusion pressure and flow in major organ dysfunction after cardiopulmonary bypass . the role of perfusion pressure and flow during cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia and hemodilution in the development of new postoperative renal or clinically apparent cerebral dysfunction was examined in 504 adults . cardiopulmonary bypass flow was targeted at greater than 40 ml.kg-1 . min-1 and pressure at greater than 50 mm hg . flows and pressures less than target occurred in 21.6 % and 97.1 % of patients , respectively . fifteen patients ( 3.0 % ) suffered new renal and 13 ( 2.6 % ) new central nervous system dysfunction . low pressure or flow during cardiopulmonary bypass , expressed in absolute values or in intensity-duration units , were not predictors of either adverse outcome . multivariate analysis identified use of postoperative intraaortic balloon counterpulsation ( p less than 10 ( -6 ] , excessive blood loss in the icu ( p less than 10 ( -4 ] , need for vasopressors before cardiopulmonary bypass ( p less than 10 ( -4 ] , postoperative myocardial infarction ( p less than 10 ( -3 ] , emergency reoperation ( p less than 0.002 ) , excessive postoperative transfusion ( p less than 0.02 ) , and chronic renal disease ( p less than 0.03 ) as independent predictors of postoperative renal dysfunction . independent predictors of postoperative central nervous system dysfunction were cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the intensive care unit ( p less than 10 ( -6 ] , intracardiac thrombus or valve calcification ( p less than 0.02 ) , and chronic renal disease ( p less than 0.03 ) . age greater than 65 years ( 40.7 % of patients ) did not predict either outcome . we conclude that failure of the native circulation during periods other than cardiopulmonary bypass rather than the flows and pressures considered here is the major cause of renal and clinically apparent central nervous system dysfunction after cardiac operations . 
acute renal failure in obstructive jaundice in cholangiocarcinoma . this study was aimed at defining the natural history of renal failure in obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma , which is an important health problem in northeastern thailand . sixty-four patients among a total of 130 patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to cholangiocarcinoma who developed acute renal failure were studied retrospectively . analysis was made with respect to clinical features , laboratory findings , and outcome . the development of renal failure before surgery was observed in all patients . it was nonoliguric in 80 % and was associated with severe jaundice , gram-negative infection ( 42 % ) , hypotension ( 31 % ) , hypoproteinemia ( 30 % ) , hyponatremia ( 56 % ) , and hypokalemia ( 63 % ) . the mean duration of renal failure was 2 weeks . all patients underwent surgery for the relief of jaundice . seventy-seven percent of the patients survived and had recovery of renal function after the relief of jaundice . twenty-three percent of the patients died of infection . clinical data highlight the higher serum bilirubin levels and the frequent occurrence of hyponatremia , hypokalemia , and hypotension in renal failure . their possible roles in contributing to the development of renal failure are discussed . 
diagnostic testing and return visits for acute problems in prepaid , case-managed medicaid plans compared with fee-for-service . enrollment of medicaid recipients into capitated , case-managed systems of health care has been advocated as a means to control costs . we studied the effect of such systems on care for urinary tract infection ( uti ) , pelvic inflammatory disease , and vaginitis among women enrolled in aid to families with dependent children in capitated demonstration programs in santa barbara county , california , and jackson county , missouri ( prepaid ) , compared with similar but fee-for-service ( ffs ) counties in ventura county , california , and st louis , mo . structured abstracts were performed on 2382 outpatient charts with one of the three conditions in 1985 . the proportion of cases with uti in which a urine culture was obtained was similar in santa barbara ( prepaid ) and ventura ( ffs ) , 47 % vs 46 % , but greater in jackson county ( prepaid ) than st louis ( ffs ) , 58 % vs 32 % . the proportion of cases with return visits for a uti was : santa barbara ( prepaid ) , 40 % ; ventura ( ffs ) , 33 % ; jackson ( prepaid ) , 72 % ; and st louis ( ffs ) , 53 % . the proportion of patients with pelvic inflammatory disease with cervical cultures for gonorrhea as santa barbara ( prepaid ) , 81 % ; ventura ( ffs ) , 52 % ; jackson ( prepaid ) , 86 % ; and st louis ( ffs ) , 61 % . the proportion of women returning for follow-up after pelvic inflammatory disease was similar across all counties at 40 % and 50 % . the number of office diagnostic tests performed for vaginitis was greater in both demonstration counties . these data do not demonstrate any diminution in either diagnostic testing or follow-up visits for three common ambulatory problems in a medicaid population enrolled in a capitated , case-managed system , with some trends for more care in the demonstration sites . 
acute autonomic neuropathy . two cases and a clinical review . acute autonomic neuropathy is an uncommon syndrome , usually affecting healthy young people . presentation is often dramatic and initial misdiagnosis is common . we describe two young women with acute autonomic neuropathy who presented with gastrointestinal involvement heralding widespread dysautonomia and review 26 additional cases of acute autonomic neuropathy from the english language literature . acute autonomic neuropathy can be primarily cholinergic without orthostatic hypotension ( 26 % ) or pandysautonomic ( 74 % ) involving sympathetic adrenergic functions . onset has been temporally related to viral syndromes in 20 % of cases , with autonomic deficits usually evolving over 1 to 3 weeks . gastroparesis ( 69 % ) and syncope ( 12 % ) are frequent presenting complaints . spinal fluid protein levels are often ( 75 % ) elevated in pandysautonomic subtypes . prolonged and incomplete recovery is the rule ( 60 % ) , with persistent gastroparesis and orthostatic hypotension . other specific diseases that occasionally mimic acute autonomic neuropathy include botulism , porphyria , amyloidosis , and paracarcinomatous neuropathies . acute autonomic neuropathy shares several clinical features with acute idiopathic polyneuropathy ( guillain-barre syndrome ) , suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenesis . 
sulfadiazine crystalluria revisited . the treatment of toxoplasma encephalitis in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . toxoplasma gondii encephalitis is an important opportunistic infection in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , estimated to occur in 20,000 to 40,000 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the united states by 1991 . the combination of sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine is regarded as the treatment of choice . acute renal failure due to crystal deposition in the urinary tract was well described 30 to 40 years ago and is likely to resurface as a clinical entity if appropriate prophylactic measures are not taken . we describe two cases of sulfadiazine-induced crystalluria and renal failure in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , review the pertinent literature , and discuss the pathogenesis . recommendations are made for the prophylaxis and treatment of sulfadiazine-related renal toxic reaction . physicians using this " new " drug must be aware of the potential danger of sulfonamide-induced injury to the urinary tract . 
pheochromocytoma presenting as rhabdomyolysis and acute myoglobinuric renal failure . we report the case of a previously healthy young woman who presented with the sudden onset of rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuric renal failure , requiring hemodialysis for 3 weeks . common causes of rhabdomyolysis were ruled out ; as renal function returned , severe hypertension was noted and a pheochromocytoma was diagnosed . we suggest that pheochromocytoma causes rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria via catecholamine-mediated vasoconstriction and skeletal muscle ischemia . 
hyperammonemic encephalopathy in urinary diversion with urea-splitting urinary tract infection . we present two cases of hyperammonemic encephalopathy secondary to urea-splitting urinary tract infection with urinary diversion . one patient had a ureterosigmoidostomy , the other an ileal loop diversion . neither patient had significant underlying liver disease , but both had considerable muscle atrophy that may have predisposed them to develop hyperammonemia . medical therapy did not provide long-term control of symptoms . in both cases , hyperammonemic encephalopathy resolved after revision of their urinary diversions . the probable mechanism of the metabolic derangements produced by urea-splitting urinary tract infections is reviewed . we suggest that patients with urinary diversion who develop hyperammonemic encephalopathy secondary to a urea-splitting urinary tract infection be treated with surgical revision of the urinary system to improve drainage and decrease bowel contact time . 
plasma thrombomodulin in health and diseases . sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by immunoblot analysis of plasma thrombomodulin concentrate revealed that four degraded forms of thrombomodulin with different molecular weights are present in plasma . plasma concentrations of thrombomodulin in patients with various diseases were measured by two methods of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using monoclonal antibodies . one method measures intact thrombomodulin and degraded forms of thrombomodulin ; the other does not detect the two smaller degraded forms of thrombomodulin present in plasma . the results indicated that thrombomodulin was increased in the circulating blood of patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome , pulmonary thromboembolism , adult respiratory distress syndrome , chronic renal failure , or acute hepatic failure . the different values obtained by the two methods indicate that the increase of plasma thrombomodulin found in these patients was mainly due to an increase of the smaller fragments of degraded forms , suggesting that the release of thrombomodulin from endothelial cells was accelerated in various disease states by proteolytic activity generated on the surface of the endothelium and may be removed from the circulation mostly by the kidneys and liver . 
psychological outcomes of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer outside a clinical trial objectives -- to assess outside a clinical trial the psychological outcome of different treatment policies in women with early breast cancer who underwent either mastectomy or breast conservation surgery depending on the surgeon 's opinion or the patient 's choice . to determine whether the extent of psychiatric morbidity reported in women who underwent breast conservation surgery was associated with their participation in a randomised clinical trial . design -- prospective , multicentre study capitalising on individual and motivational differences among patients and the different management policies among surgeons for treating patients with early breast cancer . setting -- 12 district general hospitals , three london teaching hospitals , and four private hospitals . patients -- 269 women under 75 with a probable diagnosis of stage i or ii breast cancer who were referred to 22 different surgeons . interventions -- surgery and radiotherapy or adjuvant chemotherapy , or both , depending on the individual surgeon 's stated preferences for managing early breast cancer . main outcome measures -- anxiety and depression as assessed by standard methods two weeks , three months , and 12 months after surgery . results -- of the 269 women , 31 were treated by surgeons who favoured mastectomy , 120 by surgeons who favoured breast conservation , and 118 by surgeons who offered a choice of treatment . sixty two of the women treated by surgeons who offered a choice were eligible to choose their surgery , and 43 of these chose breast conserving surgery . the incidences of anxiety , depression , and sexual dysfunction were high in all treatment groups . there were no significant differences in the incidences of anxiety and depression between women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy . a significant effect of surgeon type on the incidence of depression was observed , with patients treated by surgeons who offered a choice showing less depression than those treated by other surgeons ( p = 0.06 ) . there was no significant difference in psychiatric morbidity between women treated by surgeons who offered a choice who were eligible to choose their treatment and those in the same group who were not able to choose . most of the women ( 159/244 ) gave fear of cancer as their primary fear rather than fear of losing a breast . the overall incidences of psychiatric morbidity in women who underwent mastectomy and those who underwent lumpectomy were similar to those found in the cancer research campaign breast conservation study . at 12 months 28 % of women who underwent mastectomy in the present study were anxious compared with 26 % in the earlier study , and 27 % of women in the present study who underwent lumpectomy were anxious compared with 31 % in the earlier study . in both the present and earlier study 21 % of women who underwent mastectomy were depressed , and 19 % of women who underwent lumpectomy in the present study were depressed compared with 27 % in the earlier study . ) conclusions -- there is still no evidence that women with early breast cancer who undergo breast conservation surgery have less psychiatric morbidity after treatment than those who undergo mastectomy . women who surrender autonomy for decision making by agreeing to participate in randomised clinical trials do not experience any different psychological , sexual , or social problems from those women who are treated for breast cancer outside a clinical trial . 
neurologic complications in chronic renal failure : a retrospective study . we have retrospectively examined 324 patients with chronic renal failure and evaluated the probable underlying causes of neurologic complications , laboratory data and therapeutic interventions . the common neurologic problems in our patients were alterations in consciousness ( 40.7 % ) and convulsions ( 35.1 % ) . when bun concentration was above 135 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 8 m/min/1 .73 m2 , alteration of consciousness was observed and when bun concentration was 200 mg/dl and creatinine clearance was below 7 m/min/1 .73 m2 , abnormal convulsives appeared . changes in deep tendon reflexes and pathologic reflexes were associated with hypertension . all of the patients with cortical atrophy using computerized cranial tomography aluminum hydroxide at least for 18 months , and six of them had hemodialysis . fourteen patients who underwent dialysis developed convulsions and were thought to have disequilibrium syndrome . these findings are consistent with the suggestion that the metabolic and biochemical derangements associated with crf may be particularly detrimental to the still developing cns of the child . 
acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis : a review of treatment approaches . some authors describe acute bacterial prostatitis as a self-limiting disease , and as with any other acute septic condition , parenteral broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is indicated . chronic bacterial prostatitis , however , is associated with a causative organism persisting unaltered in prostatic fluid and leading to relapsing urinary tract infections . in the 1970s , several workers produced a classification system and bacteriologic localization cultures for establishing the diagnosis of prostatitis . krieger and crawford point to an important factor that is omitted in many clinical trials with episodes of chronic bacterial prostatitis in men . if localization studies of the prostate infection are attempted in the presence of bacteriuria , the urine must be sterilized with nitrofurantoin or penicillin g. urine cultures obtained from first-voided urine , bladder urine , and urine voided after prostatic massage should show no growth , and the expressed prostatic secretion can then be examined for evidence of prostatic infection . this procedure reduces the contamination of the expressed prostatic secretion by the organism from the urinary tract infection . this is important , because antibiotic treatment is determined by the sensitivity of the organism isolated from the prostate as well as by the ability of the antibiotics to penetrate the prostate . meares outlines the pharmacokinetic features needed for drug diffusion into prostatic fluid and provides detailed information on the physical characteristics of the prostate during acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis . unfortunately , the choice of an ideal drug can not be extrapolated from this information because pharmacodynamic principles can not predict clinical efficacy . some authors find that sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim has the best cure rate in the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis . 
angiotensin and thromboxane in the enhanced renal adrenergic nerve sensitivity of acute renal failure . the roles of intrarenal angiotensin ( a ) and thromboxane ( tx ) in the vascular hypersensitivity to renal nerve stimulation ( rns ) and paradoxical vasoconstriction to renal perfusion pressure ( rpp ) reduction in the autoregulatory range in 1 wk norepinephrine ( ne ) - induced acute renal failure ( arf ) in rats were investigated . renal blood flow ( rbf ) responses were determined before and during intrarenal infusion of an aii and txa2 antagonist . saralasin or sq29548 alone partially corrected the slopes of rbf to rns and rpp reduction in ne-arf rats ( p less than 0.02 ) . saralasin + sq29548 normalized the rbf response to rns . while combined saralasin + sq29548 eliminated the vasoconstriction to rpp reduction , similar to the effect of renal denervation , appropriate vasodilatation was not restored . renal vein norepinephrine efflux during rns was disproportionately increased in ne-arf ( p less than 0.001 ) and was suppressed by saralasin + sq29548 infusion ( p less than 0.005 ) . it is concluded that the enhanced sensitivity to rns and paradoxical vasoconstriction to rpp reduction in 1 wk ne-arf kidneys are the result of intrarenal tx and aii acceleration of neurotransmitter release to adrenergic nerve activity . 
role of endothelium-derived nitric oxide in the bleeding tendency of uremia . endothelium-derived relaxing factor , now identified as nitric oxide ( no ) , is a labile humoral agent formed by vascular endothelial cells from l-arginine . no mediates the action of substances that induce endothelium-dependent relaxation and plays a role in regulating blood pressure . in this study we investigated whether no is involved in the pathogenesis of the bleeding tendency associated with renal failure . rats with extensive surgical ablation of renal mass develop renal insufficiency due to progressive glomerulosclerosis . like uremic humans , rats with renal mass reduction and uremia have a bleeding tendency that manifests itself by a prolonged bleeding time . we found that n-monomethyl-l-arginine ( l-nmma ) , a specific inhibitor of no formation from l-arginine , completely normalized bleeding time when given to uremic rats . l-nmma injection also increased ex vivo platelet adhesion but did not affect ex vivo platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate , arachidonic acid , and calcium ionophore a23187 . the shortening effect of l-nmma on bleeding time was completely reversed by giving the animals the no precursor l-arginine , but not d-arginine , which is not a precursor of no . it thus appears that no is a mediator of the bleeding tendency of uremia . 
adverse mortality experience of a southwestern american indian community : overall death rates and underlying causes of death in pima indians . as part of an ongoing epidemiologic study , the death rate and causes of death during 1975 through 1984 were determined in pima indians who resided in the gila river indian community ( gric ) in 1965 and later . death certificates were available for 677 of the 681 deaths . in 78 % of the deaths , the underlying cause recorded on the death certificate agreed with the cause determined after review of all available relevant records . the age - and sex-adjusted average annual death rate for the gric population ( 1639/100 ,000 ) was 1.9 times ( 95 % ci 1.7-2 .0 ) the 1980 rate for the u.s. all races ( 878/100 ,000 ) . in pima males , whose death rate was substantially higher than that of pima females , the age-adjusted death rate was 2.3 times that in u.s. males , all races . moreover among males 25-34 years of age , the pima death rate was 6.6 times that for the u.s. all races . diseases of the heart and malignant neoplasms caused 59 % of u.s. deaths in 1980 , but only 19 % of gric deaths . by contrast , the age - and sex-adjusted mortality rate in the gric pima was 5.9 times the rate of the u.s. all races for accidents , 6.5 times for cirrhosis , 7.4 times for homicide , 4.3 times for suicide , and 11.9 times for diabetes . tuberculosis and coccidioidomycosis were important causes of death in the pima , for whom infectious diseases was the tenth leading cause of death . the findings indicate that programs to improve the adverse mortality experience of the gric population should emphasize factors related to fatal accidents , alcoholic cirrhosis , homicide , suicide , diabetes mellitus , and infectious diseases . young pimas , especially the males , should be the primary focus of such preventive efforts . these findings and recommendations probably apply to many native american populations . 
protective effect of a novel calcium blocker , s-312-d , on ischemic acute renal failure in rat . the effect of the calcium blocker s - ( + ) - methyl 4,7-dihydro-3-isobutyl-6-methyl-4 - ( 3-nitro-phenyl ) thieno [ 2,3-b ] pyridine - 5-carboxylate ( s-312-d ) on ischemic acute renal failure ( arf ) was studied in rats . ischemic arf was induced by temporary ( 30-60 min ) clamping of the left kidney 2 weeks after contralateral right nephrectomy . plasma creatinine , creatinine clearance , urinary osmolality and fractional excretion of sodium were used to test the effectiveness of the drug . s-312-d ( 0.01-0 .1 mg/kg b.wt . i.v. ) administration before ischemia offered dose-dependent protection against the functional impairment induced by ischemia . this effect was accompanied by an increase in the survival rate of ischemic rats . s-312-d given after ischemia was not effective . the renal cortical edema induced by ischemia was significantly reduced by pretreatment with s-312-d . the increase in renal tissue calcium content observed after ischemia was also suppressed by s-312-d . comparison with other established calcium blockers indicated s-312-d to be a good candidate for protection against ischemic arf . these findings indicate that s-312-d may be clinically useful against renal ischemia . 
atheroemboli to the lower urinary tract : a marker of atherosclerotic vascular disease -- a case report . atheroemboli to the lower genitourinary tract may serve as a marker for disseminated atheroembolic disease , a highly lethal condition . a case presentation and review of our institional experience is presented . 
end-stage renal disease -- is infrainguinal limb revascularization justified ? reports of reconstructive surgery for peripheral vascular disease have been relatively uncommon in patients with end-stage renal disease . between 1980 and 1989 , 39 patients with end-stage renal disease underwent revascularization of 56 limbs . fifty-two primary infrainguinal and four secondary infrainguinal bypass grafts were performed . in addition , nine thrombectomies were performed . at the time of surgery 37 patients were on dialysis ; three had functioning kidney transplants . the indications for revascularization were gangrene , rest pain , or ulceration in all except three limbs with disabling claudication . reversed , nonreversed , or in situ vein was used in 25 of the 52 primary infrainguinal revascularizations performed . polytetrafluoroethylene was used in 25 . two procedures used a combination of polytetrafluoroethylene and vein . the primary patencies for all infrainguinal procedures at 1 and 2 years were 77 % and 68 % , respectively . four perioperative deaths occurred in the infrainguinal group ( 7.7 % ) . an additional death occurred after thrombectomy for late graft closure . three deaths were a result of myocardial infarction . one patient on peritoneal dialysis developed uncontrolled sepsis . at 3 years 39 % of patients were alive , and 84 % of the limbs were salvaged . among the cases studied no group was identified that represented unacceptable operative risk . results compared well with reported patencies for patients subjected to infrainguinal revascularization procedures . limb revascularization in patients with end-stage renal disease may be performed by use of similar criteria to those used for other patients with peripheral vascular disease . 
transaortic endarterectomy of renal visceral artery lesions in association with infrarenal aortic surgery . the complexity of infrarenal aortic reconstruction increases when bypass grafts to revascularize associated renal and visceral arteries are needed . lesions in these vessels , however , are usually limited to their aortic orifices and therefore are amenable to retroperitoneal transaortic endarterectomy . a combined infrarenal aortic reconstruction and transaortic endarterectomy of the renal/visceral vessels was used in 18 ( 16 % ) of 120 patients undergoing elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction over a 2-year-period . transaortic endarterectomy was performed primarily for renal preservation in 11 patients with bilateral , high-grade renal artery stenoses and abnormal renal function ( serum creatinine greater than or equal to 1.9 mg/dl ) . in seven patients transaortic endarterectomy was performed as a secondary procedure during the course of complex reconstruction of aneurysmal or occlusive aortic disease . mean serum creatinine , which was elevated preoperatively in 14 ( 78 % ) patients ( 3.3 mg/dl ) , decreased significantly after the operation ( 2.0 mg/dl , p less than 0.01 ) . a single death occurred in the 18 patients undergoing transaortic endarterectomy . renal function preservation can be achieved by renal revascularization in patients with bilateral renal artery stenoses and decreased renal function . the retroperitoneal approach to aortic reconstruction and the use of transaortic endarterectomy allows correction of most renal/visceral vessel involvement in complex aortic revascularization procedures . 
combined aortic and visceral arterial reconstruction : risks and results . the indications , morbidity , and efficacy of combined reconstruction of the abdominal aorta and visceral arteries ( renal and superior mesenteric ; excluding suprarenal aortic aneurysms ) were analyzed retrospectively in 29 consecutive patients who underwent surgery from june 1984 through february 1990 . seventeen men and 12 women ages 32 to 76 years ( mean , 66 years ) were studied . follow-up was complete in all patients to either death or calendar year 1989 to 1990 ( mean , 31.9 months ; range , 2 to 66 months ) . all patients underwent bypass of angiographically proven severe lesions of one renal artery ( 19 patients ) , both renal arteries ( 8 patients ) , or the superior mesenteric artery and renal arteries ( 2 patients ) , in concert with synthetic distal aortic replacement for occlusive disease ( 10 patients ) or aneurysm ( 19 patients ) . indications for renal artery repair included severe hypertension in 13 patients , ischemic renal insufficiency in 8 patients , and lesion morphology alone in 8 patients . operative mortality rate was 3 of 29 ( 10.3 % ) , and each death was the result of multisystem organ failure . nonfatal complications occurred in 11 of the 26 survivors ( 42 % ) , and this group differed significantly from the uncomplicated 15 patients only in having a higher mean preoperative serum creatinine ( 2.5 + / - 1.1 mg/dl vs 1.6 + / - 0.9 mg/dl , p = 0.04 , t test ) . the mortality rate of patients with preoperative serum creatinine greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl , was 15.4 % ( 2/13 patients ) , compared to 6.2 % ( 1/16 ) in patients with creatinine less than 2.0 mg/dl . three late deaths occurred ( 2 stroke , 1 cancer ) . hypertension control improved in 64 % of patients overall , and in 7 of 9 patients whose major operative indication was renovascular hypertension . renal function remained stable or improved in 12 of 15 patients ( 80 % ) with renal insufficiency , but 3 patients progressed to require dialysis . long-term graft patency was demonstrated by angiography or on duplex scan in all studied survivors ( 21 patients ) . although operative risks are clearly increased compared to less complex vascular procedures , careful patient selection and management will yield a favorable outcome in most patients with such combined lesions . 
a new surgical approach in genital lymphedema . a new surgical approach has been used in a case of genital lymphedema . after resection of the lymphedematous mass , u-shaped flaps were made from the suprapubic region anteriorly and the posterior scrotal skin posteriorly . the denuded penis was transposed to its original place by passing it through a buttonhole incision made on the anterior flap . the testicles were placed and fixed in pouches prepared between the anterior and posterior flaps . the patient had an acceptable postoperative outcome both in testicular function and habitual sexual activities . 
vicarious contrast material excretion in patients with acute unilateral ureteral obstruction . radiographs of 45 patients with evidence of acute unilateral ureteral obstruction at intravenous urography , obtained at least 24 hours after injection of contrast material , were retrospectively studied . vicarious contrast material excretion ( vcme ) as evidence by gallbladder opacification on delayed radiographs was seen in 19 patients ( 42 % ) , 10 of whom also showed extravasation of contrast material . a total of 15 of the 45 patients developed spontaneous extravasation ; 10 ( 67 % ) showed vcme , while only nine of the 30 patients ( 30 % ) who did not have spontaneous extravasation of contrast material showed vcme . the creatinine level was elevated ( greater than 1.5 mg/dl [ 133 mumol/l ] ) in four patients with vcme and in six patients without . this series indicates that vcme is more common than previously appreciated in patients with acute unilateral ureteral obstruction and occurs with greater frequency when obstruction is associated with contrast material extravasation . 
in vivo human testicular function assessed with p-31 mr spectroscopy . the clinical feasibility of assessing testicular metabolic integrity with phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance ( mr ) spectroscopy was investigated in six healthy volunteers and 23 patients with azoospermia . mr spectroscopic findings were compared with sperm count and motility in all patients and with findings at testicular biopsy in 23 patients . significant differences ( p less than .05 ) were found between the p-31 spectra of normal and azoospermic testicles in the following peak area ratios : phosphomonoester ( pm ) / beta-adenosine triphosphate , pm/phosphodiester , and inorganic phosphate/pm . in the patients with azoospermia , there were significant differences in these same peak area ratios between patients with primary testicular failure and those with chronic tubular obstruction . although the differences between these two groups were statistically significant , there was a large overlap in numbers , and therefore a study with a larger patient population will be required . p-31 mr spectroscopy is a sensitive tool for assessment of testicular metabolic integrity and differentiation of normal testicles from those with markedly decreased spermatogenesis . 
renal artery stenosis : evaluation with color doppler flow imaging . renal artery stenosis ( ras ) is the most common correctable cause of hypertension . the current study was undertaken to evaluate the usefulness of color doppler flow imaging as a screening examination in the detection of significant ras . fifty-five kidneys in 30 patients were examined with aortography and color doppler flow imaging in a double-blind fashion . the peak systolic velocity ( psv ) in the renal artery , the renal-aortic ratio ( rar ) ( ie , the ratio of the psv in the renal artery to the psv in the aorta ) , and the renal artery resistive index were determined and compared with the percentage of stenosis as determined with angiography . ultrasound ( us ) criteria used to diagnose ras were ( a ) an rar of 3.5 or greater and/or ( b ) a renal artery psv of greater than 100 cm/sec . doppler tracings were obtained in 25 ( 69 % ) of 36 kidneys with a patent single renal artery . rar and psv each yielded a sensitivity of 0 % in the diagnosis of ras . doppler tracings were obtained in three ( 50 % ) of six occluded renal arteries . accessory arteries were present in 13 ( 24 % ) of 55 kidneys , but none were visualized with color doppler flow imaging . the authors conclude that with current technical capability , color duplex us is not an adequate screening method for the detection of ras . 
intrauterine spermatic cord torsion in the newborn : sonographic and pathologic correlation . in five newborn patients with spermatic cord torsion , sonography demonstrated an enlarged and globular testis , hydrocele , and skin thickening . in four of these patients the testicular parenchyma was heterogeneous . peripheral hypoechoic areas were seen in two of the four patients ; the other two had a central hypoechoic region and a peripheral echogenic rim . the testis in the fifth patient was diffusely hyperechoic . duplex doppler sonography performed in two patients failed to demonstrate any signal in the spermatic cord in either the abnormal or contralateral hemiscrotum . scintigraphic findings were positive for testicular torsion in two patients and equivocal in three patients . surgery was performed 2-12 days after sonography and established the diagnosis of spermatic cord torsion . pathologic examination demonstrated hemorrhagic infarction of the entire testis as well as scattered calcifications . the authors conclude that a solid globular testicular mass seen during the neonatal period is suggestive of intrauterine spermatic cord torsion . 
intraoperative pressure profile measurement and continence mechanism adjustment in the indiana pouch urinary reservoir . we have described herein a simple pressure transducer system which helps the surgeon to tailor suture placement and achieve a continent ileocecal reservoir . it seems that fewer lembert sutures than previously recommended are necessary to create a continent reservoir , although further study is needed . 
aminoglycosides : assessing the potential for nephrotoxicity . although aminoglycosides have been a mainstay of antibiotic therapy in postsurgical infections , certain patients may be at risk for potential aminoglycoside induced toxicities . aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity is one of the most frequent causes of iatrogenic renal failure . a narrow toxicity to therapeutic ratio , a relatively long serum half-life and concentration in the renal cortex all contribute to renal dysfunction . patients at greatest risk for aminoglycoside-induced nephrotoxicity include the elderly , patients with pre-existing renal disease and those who are volume depleted . calculations based on the results of a multicenter study demonstrate that the average additional cost incurred for each patient who had aminoglycoside-related nephrotoxicity was $ 2,501 . methods are reviewed for prospectively assessing the potential for development of nephrotoxicity to identify patients for whom effective therapeutic substitutes for aminoglycosides should be sought . 
high-dose phenylephrine infusion in the hemodynamic support of septic shock . a 75-year-old man with hyperdynamic septic shock and vasodilation was successfully supported hemodynamically for 88.5 hours through the use of a continuous infusion of phenylephrine at dosages up to 360 micrograms/min . the only other vasoactive compound administered was dopamine at a dosage of 3.4 micrograms/kg/min . hemodynamic evaluation indicated improvements in mean arterial pressure , cardiac output , and oxygen transport parameters during the period of hemodynamic support , which did not indicate a detrimental effect on perfusion of vital organs and tissues despite the use of this vasoconstrictor . phenylephrine 's pharmacologic properties may represent an advantage for its use as a vasoconstrictor over catecholamines such as norepinephrine and dopamine , particularly in patients who develop tachyarrhythmias with these agents . the pharmacology , dosage , and appropriate monitoring of therapy with phenylephrine in patients with septic shock are discussed . 
sodium loading treatment for amphotericin b-induced nephrotoxicity . the increased frequency and duration of antifungal treatment with amphotericin b in immunocompromised patients has stimulated a great deal of research into the mechanisms of its nephrotoxic effects and treatment modalities designed to attenuate these effects . a review of amphotericin b-induced nephrotoxicity , the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms , and the role of salt loading as a means of minimizing renal impairment are described . both animal and human studies regarding the efficacy of sodium loading are presented as well as a case report describing the use of salt supplementation over a prolonged course of therapy . 
diagnosis and localization of prostate carcinoma by fine-needle aspiration cytology and correlation with histologic whole-organ sections after radical prostatectomy . twenty-nine patients with clinical stage t1-2 , no , mo prostate carcinoma were treated by retropubic radical prostatectomy . diagnosis was made by fine-needle aspiration biopsy from six to eight separate sectors of the prostate . at the time of biopsy , diagrams of the palpated organ were drawn , depicting the location of the lesion and the site of each biopsy . without the examiners ' knowledge of cytologic data , extirpated prostate glands were examined with whole organ histologic sections , and carcinomas were scored according to the method of gleason . the location and extent of all typical and malignant foci were mapped on a standard diagram . the results of preoperative cytologic examination were compared with postoperative histopathologic findings , showing a tendency toward underestimation of both the extent and degree of differentiation of the carcinomas during cytologic examination . in no case were these parameters overestimated during cytologic examination . the gleason score correlated well with the presence of capsular and seminal vesicle invasion . 
cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome . a variant of hepatorenal syndrome occurring in patients with chronic congestive heart failure following an episode of cardiogenic pulmonary edema , and in the absence of hypotension , is described . this was observed in 13 patients during an eleven-year period . the clinical picture is characterized by hepatic injury and functional renal impairment . increase of serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase levels as high as 2100 iu ; prolongation of prothrombin time ; elevation of serum bilirubin , creatinine , blood urea nitrogen , and potassium levels ; decrease in urinary sodium excretion ; and a normal urinary sediment are the salient laboratory abnormalities of this entity . treated with conventional medication , the patients ' course was fatal in 4 cases . when the splanchnic vasodilator dopamine was added to the patients ' management , 5 of 9 patients recovered . cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome is a severe but potentially reversible complication of heart failure . the apparently beneficial effect of low-dose dopamine needs further evaluation . 
cystocerebral syndrome . acute urinary retention presenting as confusion in elderly patients . the diagnosis of acute mental status changes in the elderly patient is often very difficult . many causes are possible , and there is often little history obtainable . the physical examination occasionally provides the essential clues needed to discover the source of the sudden deterioration . we have recently evaluated four episodes of acute delirium in three elderly patients who presented with no readily apparent cause for these changes . on further evaluation , the patients were found to have marked bladder distention associated with acute urinary retention . none of these patients complained of discomfort , and none had any awareness or recollection of their deterioration . each patient had rapid resolution of symptoms on bladder decompression . to our knowledge , this " cystocerebral syndrome " has not been previously described , and we suggest that it be considered in the evaluation of acute confusional states in elderly men . 
the dichotomous distribution of gastrinomas . our experience with 47 sporadic gastrinomas suggests that no less than 85 % of these tumors are located to the right of the superior mesenteric artery . this finding is unexpected because approximately 75 % of insulinomas and glucagonomas are located to the left of the superior mesenteric artery . all of our extrapancreatic gastrinomas have been located to the right . these observations prompted us to determine if other extrapancreatic gastrinomas were also predominantly located to the right side . we searched the world 's literature and found 10 cases of ovarian gastrinomas and one case of a renal gastrinoma . nine of these remote extrapancreatic gastrinomas were located on the right side . this distribution of remote extrapancreatic gastrinomas is similar to our experience with peripancreatic gastrinomas . this unexpected right-sided preponderance of both remote and peripancreatic gastrinomas suggests a common origin for both . 
regional changes in creatine kinase and myocyte size in hypertensive and nonhypertensive cardiac hypertrophy . several intracellular enzymes have been shown to have altered total activity or isoenzyme composition in cardiac hypertrophy . this study tests the hypothesis that the accumulation of the fetal-type ( bb + mb ) creatine kinase ( ck ) isoenzymes in hypertrophied adult myocardium is related to an increase in blood pressure . consideration was made for the location , size , and hemodynamic load of the myocytes . by using the two-kidney , one-clip ( 2k1c ) rat model of renal hypertension with and without hydralazine treatment , ck ( total and isoenzyme ) , lactate dehydrogenase , and citrate synthase activities and myocyte size were measured . an increased heart weight/body weight ratio occurred in both untreated 2k1c rats ( 4.15 + / - 0.09 ) and hydralazine-treated 2k1c rats ( 4.12 + / - 0.13 ) as compared with control rats ( 3.25 + / - 0.10 ) . blood pressure was high only in untreated 2k1c rats ( 196 + / - 9 mm hg ) , as compared with hydralazine-treated 2k1c rats ( 142 + / - 6 mm hg ) and control rats ( 135 + / - 3 mm hg ) . myocytes were isolated from five ventricular regions : left ventricular epicardial and endocardial free wall , left and right halves of the interventricular septum , and right ventricular free wall . regional differences in normal and hypertrophied myocardium were demonstrated for morphological and biochemical parameters , with the greatest changes occurring in left ventricular endocardium . the shift in ck isoenzyme expression toward accumulating more bb + mb was greater in " hypertensive hypertrophy " ( untreated 2k1c rats ) than in " nonhypertensive hypertrophy " ( hydralazine-treated 2k1c rats ) . calculations incorporating isolated myocyte volume showed that the cellular content of total ck remained the same during the hypertrophic process , accounting for a decrease in the tissue activity . measurement of lactate dehydrogenase and citrate synthase activities suggests that hypertrophied myocardium has relatively higher glycolytic capacity and that this effect is exacerbated in the presence of high blood pressure . we conclude that increased blood pressure is more closely linked to the fetal ck isoenzyme shift than is hypertrophy alone . 
effect of calcium entry blocker nitrendipine on renal function after renal vascular occlusion . the ability of the ca entry blocker nitrendipine to improve postischemic renal function was studied in nine groups ( n = 70 ) of rats . after anesthesia , nitrendipine was administered for 15 min through the femoral vein . the dose administered depended on the group . group 1 ( n = 7 ) , the control , received only 0.9 % nacl , group 2 ( n = 12 ) 0.25 mg/kg ; group 3 ( n = 10 ) 0.50 mg/kg ; group 4 ( n = 8 ) 0.75 mg/kg ; group 5 ( n = 6 ) 1.00 mg/kg ; group 6 ( n = 7 ) 1.50 mg/kg ; group 7 ( n = 7 ) 2.00 mg/kg ; group 8 ( n = 6 ) 2.50 mg/kg ; and group 9 ( n = 7 ) 3.00 mg/kg . after the administration of nitrendipine , the kidneys were rendered ischemic for one hour by cross-clamping the renal vessels . comparison of 24-h creatinine clearances for 72 h after reversal of ischemia demonstrated that nitrendipine was capable of providing a degree of protection against renal ischemia and the protective effect was dose dependent ( p less than .05 ) . 
the placebo response of subfertile couples to attending a tertiary referral centre . the objective of this study was to determine whether there was a placebo response to clinic attendance in couples with prolonged ( greater than 4 years ) subfertility . from 4 to 18 years of subfertility we observed a treatment independent cumulative conception rate of 22 % , which was independent of the length of subfertility . twenty-seven women conceived after 1 to 4 years ' subfertility , and 30 conceived after greater than 4 years ' subfertility . the fecundity of the latter group was significantly greater than that of women with 1 to 4 years ' subfertility , being similar to " normal " subjects who had stopped contraception . this study demonstrates that a subgroup of apparently normal women with greater than 4 years ' subfertility responded positively to clinic attendance independent of any investigation ( s ) or therapy . 
a randomized , controlled trial of clomiphene citrate and intrauterine insemination in couples with unexplained infertility or surgically corrected endometriosis . this study was initiated to test the hypothesis that treatment with clomiphene citrate ( cc ) and intrauterine insemination ( iui ) results in increased fecundity when compared with periovulatory intercourse in couples with either unexplained infertility or surgically corrected endometriosis . sixty-seven couples entered a randomized , prospective trial comparing cc/iui with observation . during the study , there were 14 pregnancies in 148 treated cycles ( fecundity = 0.095 ) compared with 5 pregnancies in 150 untreated cycles ( fecundity = 0.033 ) . using life-table analysis and the log-rank test , the difference in fecundities was statistically significant . pregnancy outcome was not significantly different between the two groups . when comparing conception with nonconception cycles during treatment , no differences between the size of the lead follicle or the number of dominant follicles was detected . we conclude that treatment with cc/iui improves fecundity in couples with unexplained infertility or surgically corrected endometriosis . 
fertility prognosis for infertile men : results of follow-up study of semen analysis in infertile men from two different populations evaluated by the cox regression model . using the cox proportional hazard regression model on one material ( group i = 765 , 1950 to 1951 ) we have identified four variables of semen analysis with significant prognostic information about fertility . the four variables were combined into a model for establishing the probability of the individual male to achieve pregnancy as a function of time . this model is tested first on another material ( group ii = 321 , 1977 to 1985 ) . a goodness-of-fit test indicates excellent agreement between the expectations from the model and the observed number of pregnancies in group ii . second , the two groups are pooled ( = 1,086 ) . then only three variables give significant prognostic information about the time until pregnancy : ( 1 ) the man 's age at semen analysis ( years ) ; ( 2 ) the percentage of morphologically normal spermatozoa ( ln % ) ; and ( 3 ) the degree of motility ( good/poor ) . these three important variables enter into a new and better prognostic model . 
changes in sperm antibody test results when spermatozoa are subjected to capacitating conditions . cytotoxic and immunobead-binding antibody assays were used to document possible changes in antigenicity after the spermatozoa were subjected in vitro to capacitating conditions . serum and seminal plasma immunobead-binding immunoglobulin ( ig ) a , sperm surface igg , and iga , and seminal plasma cytotoxic antibody titers in 26 autoimmune infertile men were decreased against autologous spermatozoa under capacitating conditions . cytotoxic antibodies and immunobead-binding igg , iga , and igm against husbands ' sperm undergoing capacitation , in the cervical mucus of these women , were less than those against uncapacitated sperm . conversely , sperm antibody levels were increased against the capacitated husbands ' sperm in the husbands ' serum and wives ' cervical mucus , originally testing negative for cytotoxic antibodies against uncapacitated sperm . antibody levels were unaltered against donors ' sperm undergoing capacitation , except for a reduction in titers in the serum of isoimmune wives . the differences in sperm antibody assay results , depending on whether or not spermatozoa are incubated under conditions favoring capacitation , are specific to the husbands ' and not to the donors ' spermatozoal antigens . 
hyaluronic acid ( sperm select ) improves retention of sperm motility and velocity in normospermic and oligospermic specimens . the effects of sperm select ( pharmacia ab , uppsala , sweden ) , a hyaluronic acid medium , on the motility and membrane integrity properties of sperm were studied . in 15 normospermic specimens after overnight incubation , the motility parameters in the control versus the sperm select group were as follows ( mean + / - sem ) : motility , 18.8 % + / - 2.8 % versus 27.4 % + / - 2.9 % ; velocity , 21.5 + / - 2.4 versus 27.2 + / - 2.2 microns/s ; linearity , 3.8 + / - 0.3 versus 4.4 + / - 0.2 ; lateral head displacement , 1.5 + / - 0.2 versus 1.9 + / - 0.1 microns ; and tail beat/cross frequency , 8.8 + / - 1.3 versus 10.8 + / - 1.4 hz . the density of motile sperm was 10.8 + / - 2.3 versus 18.5 + / - 2.5 x 10 ( 6 ) sperm/ml . finally , the velocity coefficient , the multiple of the sperm motility and linear velocity , was 4.6 + / - 1.1 versus 8.1 + / - 1.4 . however , we found no sperm select related differences when testing sperm membrane integrity with hypoosmotic swelling and supravital staining . thus , sperm select improves the retention of sperm motility ( most prominently velocity ) apparently due to a direct action of hyaluronic acid on sperm metabolism or contractility rather than to preservation of sperm membrane integrity . in 20 oligospermic specimens , sperm select caused similar improvements in sperm motility , and the duration of motility could be predicted from the degree of enhancement in sperm velocity after short-term sperm select exposure . a modified sperm select protocol is described that further increases motile sperm yield without a centrifugation step . 
the prevalence of subfertility : a review of the current confusion and a report of two new studies . the difficulties inherent in measuring the prevalence of subfertility are discussed . four subtypes of subfertility are defined , enabling comparisons to be made between the widely different approaches previously reported . a detailed assessment was made of the prevalence of subfertility in two different samples of british women aged 25 to 44 years , using interviews , postal questionnaires , and medical record searches . data were collected on 872 women from a general practice and 702 hospital patients . the combined data showed that 24 % of all women attempting to conceive experience an episode of subfertility at some stage in their reproductive life . thirteen percent experience this in attempting to conceive their first child , and 17 % when attempting to conceive a subsequent child . three percent of women are involuntarily childless and 6 % of parous women are not able to have as many children as they would wish . 
nephropathy in model combining genetic hypertension with experimental diabetes . enalapril versus hydralazine and metoprolol therapy . we compared the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and a conventional antihypertensive regimen ( hydralazine and metoprolol ) on kidney function , albuminuria , and glomerular ultrastructure in hypertensive diabetic and nondiabetic rats . diabetes was induced with streptozocin at 8 wk of age in spontaneously hypertensive ( shr ) rats . antihypertensive drugs were administered in drinking water from the time of induction of diabetes in all groups . blood pressure reduction was equal in the diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats receiving either enalapril or hydralazine plus metoprolol . in diabetic shr rats , there was a rise in serum creatinine after 32 wk , which did not occur in diabetic rats treated with either antihypertensive regimen or in nondiabetic rats . both drug regimens reduced albuminuria in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats to a similar degree . enalapril and the combination of hydralazine and metoprolol were associated with decreased glomerular basement membrane thickness and glomerular volume in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats without significant effect on fractional mesangial volume . thus , antihypertensive therapy retards the development of albuminuria , glomerular basement membrane thickening , and glomerular hypertrophy in the rat in the presence or absence of diabetes . no specific benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition was observed in these hypertensive models of nephropathy . human studies comparing the effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs on kidney function , proteinuria , and glomerular morphology are warranted . 
plasma vasoactive intestinal polypeptide concentration determination in patients with diarrhea . determination of plasma levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide ( vip ) has been used for screening patients with chronic diarrhea to identify potential neuroendocrine tumors . this 6-year blinded study from 1981 to 1986 examines the causes of elevated vip levels in patients . in healthy volunteers ( n = 144 ) , vip concentrations ranged from 14 to 76 pg/ml ( mean + / - se , 28 + / - 12 ) , whereas in chronic renal failure , 4 of 34 patients or 12 % [ serum creatinine 4.5 - 9.0 mg/dl ( 397-795 mumols/l ) ] had an elevation to greater than 100 pg/ml . no patient with idiopathic hepatic cirrhosis ( n = 12 ) had elevation of serum concentration of this peptide . among 588 consecutive unselected patients undergoing evaluation for chronic diarrhea ( n = 362 ; 62 % ) or possible neuroendocrine tumor ( n = 214 ; 36 % ) , 23 patients ( 3.9 % ) had concentrations greater than 76 pg/ml . in this group , 5 patients had functioning ( vip , 160-5975 pg/ml ) and 5 had nonfunctioning ( vip , 80-120 pg/ml ) pancreatic islet cell carcinomas : all 10 patients had hepatic metastases . other known cases of elevated levels of vip , ranging from 80 to 340 pg/ml , included other neurogenic tumors ( n = 3 ) , small - bowel resection ( n = 2 ) , inflammatory bowel disease ( n = 2 ) , chronic renal failure ( n = 1 ) , and prolonged fasting ( n = 1 ) . patients with diarrhea in which vip-secreting tumors were identified had plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide concentrations greater than 140 pg/ml . in patients with chronic diarrhea , determination of plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide levels did identify tumors secreting this peptide , but the results from this referral institution did not show identification of these tumors early in their clinical course . 
clinically inapparent ( asymptomatic ) bacteriuria in ambulatory elderly men : epidemiological , clinical , and microbiological findings . in a prospective longitudinal study , ambulatory elderly men were followed from 1 to 4.5 years to gain insight into the prevalence rates , clinical characteristics , and patterns of clinically inapparent ( asymptomatic ) bacteriuria ( cib ) . the prevalence of cib was 12 % ( 29/238 ) and increases with age . unlike the gram-negative organisms that cause overt urinary tract infection in this age group , gram-positive organisms dominated the cib group . both the cib and abacteriuric patients have multiple chronic medical conditions and are indistinguishable on that basis . twenty-nine elderly men with bacteriuria and 105 abacteriuric subjects were followed with serial urine cultures . during the study period the bacteriuric subjects exhibited spontaneous temporary or permanent resolution ( 76 % , 22/29 ) , intermittency ( 21 % , 6/29 ) , and probable bacterial persistence ( 38 % , 11/29 ) . no consistent pattern of bacteriuria was evident . therefore , antimicrobial therapy is not warranted in the treatment of asymptomatic or clinically inapparent bacteriuria in ambulatory elderly men . 
defective oral tolerance promotes nephritogenesis in experimental iga nephropathy induced by oral immunization . oral tolerance , an important feature of the mucosal immune system , appears to protect against immune-mediated disease by blunting production of systemic igg and igm antibody directed toward immunogens chronically present at mucosal surfaces . in this study , we explored the role of oral tolerance and mucosal immunoregulation in an experimental model of iga nephropathy ( igan ) , an important form of nephritis in humans . cyclophosphamide and estradiol were used to inhibit the expression of oral tolerance , which otherwise develops after chronic oral presentation of ag . balb/c mice given drinking water containing 0.1 % bovine gamma globulin ( bgg ) continuously for 14 wk were randomly assigned to groups given either 2 mg of cyclophosphamide i.p. , 2 mg of estradiol s.c. or both drugs . groups of control mice received neither bgg nor drugs . in three separate experiments , a low percentage of saline-treated orally immunized mice had microscopic hematuria ( 0 to 20 % ) , as did nonimmunized controls ( 0 to 20 % ) . however , 58 to 83 % of mice given estradiol and/or cyclophosphamide at appropriate times developed significant hematuria . if drugs were given at suboptimal times , only 25 to 56 % of mice developed hematuria . drug-treated immunized mice also had more serum igg and igm anti-bgg antibodies than control and saline groups . immunofluorescence showed significantly more glomerular deposits of igg , igm , and c3 in drug-treated immunized mice compared to saline-treated immunized and normal untreated control mice . hematuria and glomerular deposits of igg , igm , and c3 paralleled serum igg and igm antibody . all immunized mice showed significant mesangial iga and bgg deposits and there were no differences in such deposits between saline - and drug-treated immunized mice . we suggest that blunting of oral tolerance with promotion of systemic igg and igm antibody production leads to nephritis in chronically orally immunized mice and that glomerular immune complexes containing igg and/or igm promote complement deposition and hematuria in igan . analogous defects in oral ( or more generally mucosal ) tolerance could play a role in the genesis of symptomatic human igan . 
a glance at the urodynamic database . three hundred sixty-four patients with urinary incontinence as their presenting complaint were evaluated in the urogynecology laboratory , department of obstetrics and gynecology , university of rochester , rochester , new york . of them , 226 ( 62 % ) were found to have genuine stress urinary incontinence ( gsi ) . this subset of demonstrably incontinent patients was characterized as to symptoms of stress and urge incontinence , incidence of nulliparity , occurrence of incontinence during intercourse and influence of weight on bladder pressure . using clusters of symptoms did not accurately distinguish gsi from the other types of urinary incontinence . four percent of the gsi patients were nulliparous . all had a reasonable explanation for incontinence other than anatomic relaxation . twenty-three percent of the 154 sexually active gsi patients acknowledged having incontinence with intercourse . none of the anatomic and urodynamic parameters evaluated distinguished that group from their gsi counterparts who did not lose urine with intercourse . increasing weight , expressed as the body mass index , correlated with an increase in the vesical pressure in the supine and standing positions . 
chancroid and the role of genital ulcer disease in the spread of human retroviruses . chancroid is the most prevalent form of genital ulcer disease in developing countries and is undergoing a resurgence in industrialized countries . as a result of a nonspecificity of the clinical findings , the etiologic diagnosis of genital ulcer disease requires laboratory support . genital ulcer disease is a risk factor for the transmission of human retroviral infections . an understanding of this interaction is emerging and will impact on the treatment and control programs for the agents causing genital ulcer disease . 
human papillomavirus infections of the genital tract . infection of the genital tract by hpv is a sexually transmitted disease of increasing prevalence . the association of hpv infection with genital tract malignancies is of great concern , and further studies are needed to clarify this association . few investigators believe at this time that proof of a direct causative role exists for hpv in these cancers , but indirect evidence of such a role is abundant . there are many clinical forms of hpv infection of the genital tract , and few clinicians can easily recognize them all . treatment of condyloma acuminatum is difficult and frustrating . cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen is the safest and most effective therapy for most forms of condyloma acuminatum . recurrence of condyloma acuminatum is common with all presently used forms of therapy , probably owing to latent hpv infection in normal-appearing skin . no form of treatment is ideal for all forms of condyloma acuminatum , but without continued efforts to find better therapeutic modalities and preventative measures , the epidemic of genital hpv infection will continue unchecked . 
common nonvenereal genital lesions . there are a wide variety of local and systemic skin diseases that produce lesions in the genitoanal region . these lesions may resemble those produced by sexually transmitted microorganisms . the purpose of this article is to make physicians aware of the common skin diseases that produce lesions on the genitalia to avoid the inappropriate diagnosis of a sexually transmitted disease . 
approach to men with urethritis and urologic complications of sexually transmitted diseases . the most important causes of urethritis , and epididymitis in younger men , are c. trachomatis and n. gonorrhoeae . management of these syndromes requires a thorough sexual history , genital examination , evaluation for objective and laboratory evidence of infection , antimicrobial therapy directed toward the major etiologies , and evaluation and treatment of sexual partners . treatment of n. gonorrhoeae requires use of a single-dose regimen active against this organism , plus a 7 - to 10-day tetracycline regime active against c. trachomatis and nongonococcal urethritis . with recommended regimens , microbiologic failure is infrequent in compliant patients . recurrent urethritis is frequent , however . the management of patients with persistent or recurrent symptoms requires careful reevaluation of the patient , documentation of urethritis , and re-treatment with antimicrobials if urethritis is documented by positive cultures or increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions . additional treatment beyond this point usually is not indicated , even though a proportion of men will remain symptomatic and some of these will have increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions . the most important causes of prostatitis , and epididymitis in older men or men with urethral structural abnormalities , are classical urinary tract pathogens rather than sexually transmitted pathogens . management of these infections includes documentation of the infection and treatment directed toward the specific pathogen . men with symptoms of " prostatitis " must be evaluated using both urine and prostatic secretions to document infection and inflammation . the majority of men with such symptoms do not have an infection that can be documented . these men respond poorly to medications . men with documented chronic bacterial prostatitis require long courses of antimicrobials to effect cure . in some cases , however , the disease is intractable , and chronic suppression with antimicrobials may be necessary . 
approach to the patient with genital ulcer disease . the three major diseases characterized by genital ulcers -- genital herpes , syphilis , and chancroid -- are common , with genital herpes being most common in industrialized countries and chancroid being most common in developing countries . one fourth to one half of patients with genital ulcers have no diagnosed cause for their illness despite diagnostic efforts . the bulk of these cases is probably constituted by one of the three diseases for which diagnostic tests are falsely negative . there is accumulating evidence that genital ulcers facilitate the transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , and they may also be markers of high-risk behavior for acquisition of hiv . appropriate therapy of patients with genital ulcers ( as well as their sexual partners ) depends on accurate diagnosis . patients with genital ulcers , particularly those with syphilis or chancroid , should be encouraged to undergo testing for hiv infection . 
allelic loss of chromosomes 16q and 10q in human prostate cancer . recent advances in understanding the molecular genetics of common adult tumors have indicated that multiple genetic alterations including the activation of oncogenes and the inactivation of tumor suppressor genes are important in the pathogenesis of these tumors . loss of heterozygosity is a hallmark of tumor suppressor gene inactivation and has been used to identify chromosomal regions that contain these genes . we have examined allelic loss in the most common tumor in men , prostate cancer . twenty-eight prostate cancer specimens have been examined for loss of heterozygosity at 11 different chromosomal arms including 3p , 7q , 9q , 10p , 10q , 11p , 13q , 16p , 16q , 17p , and 18q . fifty-four percent ( 13/24 ) of clinically localized tumors and 4 of 4 metastatic tumors showed loss of heterozygosity on at least one chromosome . chromosomes 16q and 10q exhibited the highest frequency of loss of heterozygosity with 30 % of tumors showing loss at these chromosomes . these data demonstrate that allelic loss is a common event in prostate cancer and suggest that chromosomes 16q and 10q may contain the sites of tumor suppressor genes important in the pathogenesis of human prostate cancer . 
overexpression of normal and mutated forms of hras induces orthotopic bladder invasion in a human transitional cell carcinoma . recent studies have shown that orthotopic ( transurethral ) transplantation of human bladder cancer cell lines into nude mice permits tumor growth that accurately reflects their clinical malignant status in the original host . thus , such a system allows a unique opportunity to analyze the genetic events involved in the conversion of low-grade bladder cancer , the vast majority of which are curable , to the high-grade life-threatening form of the disease . since 5-10 % of transitional cell carcinomas ( tccs ) have been shown to contain a mutated hras gene , and protein expression levels of all forms of hras have been correlated with tcc progression , we chose to study the contribution of the hras oncogene in bladder tumor progression . we evaluated the effects of transfection of normal or mutated hras genes into a human tcc , called rt-4 , that behaves as a superficial noninvasive papillary tumor after transurethral orthotopic inoculation into athymic nude mice . we found that overexpression of either transfected normal or mutated hras genes converted rt-4 cells to express an invasive phenotype remarkably similar in nature to the clinical behavior of high-grade bladder carcinomas . these results suggest a role for overexpressed normal or mutated ras genes in human bladder carcinoma progression , and highlight the importance of using orthotopic inoculation systems for evaluation of the contribution of oncogenes to malignant tumor progression . 
function in athymic nude mice of parathyroid heterografts from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism and secondary hyperparathyroidism . heterotransplantation of adenomatous parathyroid glandular tissue from humans with primary hyperparathyroidism into athymic nude mice creates a unique animal model of this disease . the mice manifest high concentrations of both midregion/c-terminal human parathyroid hormone and biologically active intact human parathyroid hormone relative to either mice with no implants or mice that received normal human parathyroid tissue . secretion of these substances is maintained in most mice for at least 9 to 13 months after implantation . in addition , animals that have experienced implantation exhibit other characteristics associated with human primary hyperparathyroidism including relative hypercalcemia and increased renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d-1 alpha-hydroxylase activity . we also measured these parameters in a group of nude mice that received transplantation of a similar mass of hyperplastic parathyroid tissue that was obtained from patients with uremic secondary hyperparathyroidism . although we hypothesized that the level of human parathyroid hormone secretion from these implants would fall over time in response to the normal host environment , hormone levels remained as high as those in recipients of adenomatous heterografts , even after 9 to 13 months . moreover , similar biologic effect of the excess parathyroid hormone ( i.e. , relative hypercalcemia , hyperphosphatasemia , and increased 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d biosynthesis ) were detected . these animal models should prove extremely useful in supplementing our understanding of hyperparathyroid disorder in man . 
are three substages of clinical b prostate carcinoma useful in predicting disease-free survival ? the b1 nodule , a 1.5 cm area of induration surrounded on at least two sides by prostatic tissue of normal consistency , was defined by jewett in 1968 as the stage of prostatic cancer best suited for treatment and cure by radical prostatectomy ( rp ) . the area of prostatic induration suitable for rp was subsequently extended to less than one lobe ( stage b1 ) ; this extension of induration was supported by the study of walsh and jewett in 1980 showing a 51 percent survival free-of-disease at fifteen-year follow-up . subsequently , clinical staging systems evolved which substaged clinical b into three categories of induration : b1n = less than 1.5 cm nodule , b1 = greater than 1.5 cm but less than one lobe , and b2 = one lobe or both lobes . to determine if digital assessment of these progressively greater degrees of induration would translate into different intervals to first progression , whether local or distant , we reviewed prostate diagrams and descriptions of all stage b patients treated by iodine-125 interstitial implant and external beam radiation therapy between 1974 and 1985 at our institution . forty-six patients had b1 nodules , 78 patients b1 ( less than one lobe ) , and 52 patients b2 ( one lobe or greater ) . mean follow-up was fifty-five months . we found b1n , which was also associated with well-differentiated grade and a normal acid phosphatase , to have the longest interval to progression . 
transrectal sonographic cystourethrography : studies in stress urinary incontinence . transrectal ultrasonic sagittal transducer is an excellent modality to image the bladder and urethra in dynamic change . in female patients , we found it is also helpful for the diagnosis of urinary stress incontinence . the posterior urethrovesical ( puv ) angle is measured with the transrectal sonoprobe under strain and non-strain conditions . we compared the results of sonographic cystourethrogram with the radiographic chain cystourethrogram . the sonographic cystourethrography is superior to the radiography . the former may estimate the puv angle accurately and differentiate between the patients with and without stress urinary incontinence . furthermore , we also use the transrectal sagittal probe intraoperatively to adjust the suspension force as well as puv angle in patients who underwent vesical neck suspension for stress urinary incontinence ( sui ) . 
radical prostatectomy versus expectant primary treatment in stages i and ii prostatic cancer . a fifteen-year follow-up . a fifteen-year follow-up of a prospective , randomized study comparing placebo with radical prostatectomy as the primary treatment of early prostatic cancer is presented . a total of 111 patients with clinical stage i or ii prostatic cancer , normal acid phosphatase levels , and negative findings on skeletal x-ray film were evaluable . thirty stage i patients and 20 stage ii patients received placebo only ; 31 stage i and 30 stage ii patients underwent radical prostatectomy . the survival status for 95 patients ( 86 % ) was established at the fifteen-year follow-up . no significant differences in crude survival occurred in either stage or in both stages combined . moreover , the survival curves closely followed reference curves based on expected u.s. mortality for men of comparable ages and races . a statistically significant association between a high gleason histologic score and poor survival was established . in this study , initial treatment with radical prostatectomy did not yield longer survival than initial placebo treatment alone . however , the findings should be interpreted with caution , since sample size was small and staging procedure was simplified . 
role of serum prolactin determination in evaluation of impotent patient . hyperprolactinemia is a recognized cause of impotence . the discovery of elevated prolactin levels in impotent men is very important since pharmacotherapy in this instance is highly successful . we review our experience with prolactin determinations in impotent men , and a population is defined that may benefit from routine prolactin determination . in our experience , the predominant symptom associated with hyperprolactinemia in men is loss of libido . 
clinical experience implanting an inflatable penile prosthesis with controlled-expansion cylinder . ninety-four patients with erectile dysfunction underwent implantation of controlled-expansion inflatable penile prosthetic cylinders . most of these patients had aneurysmal dilatation of the corpora cavernosa after prior implantation of inflatable devices . follow-up of forty-six months has shown their efficacy to be excellent for management of primary impotence , penile straightening procedures , and revision after cylinder leaks . none of the patients has had recurrence of the primary condition that required revision . 
experience with duraphase penile prosthesis : its use as replacement device . the duraphase penile prosthesis is a new , articulating type of semirigid prosthesis which appears to have several advantages over other semirigid penile prostheses . this series describes the experience with this prosthesis in 12 patients and highlights the experience in 4 patients who underwent removal of other types of prostheses due to mechanical or functional problems and replacement with the duraphase prosthesis . the device has been mechanically reliable during short follow-up , and there has been excellent patient satisfaction . 
retrograde transurethral balloon dilation of prostate : innovative management of abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia . retrograde transurethral balloon dilatation ( rtbd ) of the prostate recently has been suggested as alternative therapy for patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia ( bph ) . seven patients with documented functional urinary outlet obstruction at the level of the bladder neck or prostatic urethra underwent rtbd of prostate . each patient had a classic diagnosis of abacterial chronic prostatitis or prostatodynia based on history , physical examination , and localization cultures . prior to rtbd of prostate , patients underwent cystoscopy , voiding cystourethrogram , urodynamic and uroflow studies . rtbd of prostate was done as an outpatient procedure requiring intravenous sedation or general anesthesia . dilation was performed with a 25-mm urethroplasty balloon catheter inflated at 3.5 atm of pressure for twenty minutes . improvement in voiding symptomatology was noted in all patients and graded numerically ( 0-10 scale ) , with ten indicating normal voiding . follow-up to date ranges from one to five months . this technique may have promise as a treatment option in patients with abacterial chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia . 
continence level following radical prostatectomy . the relationship of the urethral anastomosis and postoperative continence following radical prostatectomy is uncertain . the objective of this study was to determine radiographically the functional level of continence following radical prostatectomy relative to the site of the intraoperative urethral anastomosis . in 8 patients having a radical prostatectomy , an intraoperative hemoclip was placed at the site of the urethral anastomosis and the postoperative functional level of continence was determined using a standing lateral cystogram . the functional level of continence was 9 mm ( sd = 3.0 ) distal to the site of the urethral anastomosis . the level in the urethra that continence occurs may be a function of the intrinsic continence parameters of each individual patient . 
acute urinary retention in a child with appendiceal abscess : diagnostic dilemma . rarely do children with appendiceal abscess present with acute urinary retention as the only sign or symptom . this presentation may delay diagnosis and definitive therapy , thereby causing additional morbidity and possible mortality . we report the eighth case of acute urinary retention in a child associated with an appendiceal abscess . 
the overlooked , retained double j stent . a series of 4 patients with long overlooked , retained ureteral stents is presented to illustrate the variable , unpredictable , and at times , hazardous course of such patients . these cases are cited to re-emphasize the need for careful documentation , observation , and follow-up of patients in whom stents are placed . 
primary lymphoma of prostate : transrectal ultrasonic appearance . in the case presented , primary lymphoma of the prostate was diagnosed by ultrasonically guided transrectal biopsy . primary lymphoma of the prostate should be included in the differential diagnosis of a hypoechoic lesion found on ultrasonic evaluation of the prostate in a young adult . 
epididymal metastasis from prostatic adenocarcinoma mimicking adenomatoid tumor . a case of epididymal metastasis from prostatic carcinoma is presented . the initial histologic findings were suggestive of adenomatoid tumor , but a diagnosis of metastatic adenocarcinoma of prostatic origin has been established by prostatic acid phosphatase and prostate-specific antigen immunoperoxidase staining . 
perirenal candidial abscess . perirenal candidial abscesses are rare , with few well-documented cases in the literature . we describe a case of a perinephric abscess treated with amphotericin b and nephrectomy . 
femoral mononeuropathy after radical prostatectomy . femoral mononeuropathy is a recognized complication following abdominal and vaginal hysterectomy . retractor injury and lithotomy position were postulated mechanisms . we report a femoral nerve lesion following a radical perineal prostatectomy . 
indications for use of ketoconazole in management of metastatic prostate cancer . newer methods of androgen ablation for the treatment of metastatic prostatic carcinoma have been developed as alternatives to the standard forms of therapy , oral estrogens and surgical castration . the purpose of this review is to elucidate the indications and to determine the role of ketoconazole in the management of metastatic prostatic cancer . eighteen patients have been treated with ketoconazole . the indications for usage have included : prompt therapeutic response , when orchiectomy is contraindicated , when estrogens are contraindicated , initial empirical therapy , and hormonally refractory disease . it can also be used in conjunction with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analogues . ketoconazole is excellent for short-term usage prior to bilateral orchiectomy and when prompt therapeutic response is needed but orchiectomy can not be performed . however , it is not particularly useful for long-term hormonal therapy . 
tetracyclines in urology : current concepts tetracyclines have an unusually broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity . they are generally well tolerated , with relatively few side effects compared with alternative antibiotic choices . tetracyclines also compare favorably with newer antimicrobials , i.e. , oral quinolones , with respect to cost and microbial resistance . doxycycline 's and minocycline 's spectrum of antibacterial activity , pharmacokinetic profile , and safety profile make them preferred drugs when tetracyclines are indicated in urologic infections . 
testicular calcifications and neoplasia in patient treated for subfertility . a subfertile male with a history of left cryptorchism underwent scrotal ultrasound that revealed stippled calcifications , without associated mass , in the right testicle . six months later , while on a regimen of clomiphene citrate , a testicular tumor became palpable . this was sonographically confirmed to be surrounding the calcifications . testicular calcifications are most commonly associated with benign conditions . we review the literature regarding their relationship to neoplasms and the significance of the ultrasonic findings . furthermore , this is the sixth reported case of testicular tumor developing during hormonal treatment for oligospermia . although these cases may be circumstantial , closer surveillance and screening ultrasound may be indicated for subfertile males taking clomiphene citrate . 
corporectomy for intractable sickle-associated priapism . priapism is a complication of sickle cell disease , and for those with severe prolonged attacks , it is serious , often resulting in permanent sexual impairment . treatment is frustrating , and psychological consequences may be profound . a 20-year-old sickle cell patient with intractable priapism associated with intense pain and penile gigantism underwent multiple but unsuccessful medical and surgical treatment regimens . finally , corpora cavernosa corporectomy was performed . the pathologic findings of extensive vascular thrombosis and stromal fibrosis underscore the irreversibility of this process and explain the inevitable impotence . pain and sexual impairment were associated with serious psychological difficulties and suicide attempts . counseling and close follow-up have improved his outlook considerably . he has been pain-free for 1 year , and future management includes consideration of placement of a penile prosthesis . 
x linked hypophosphataemia : treatment , height gain , and nephrocalcinosis . the clinical data of 18 patients with x linked hypophosphataemia were analysed retrospectively . the height data were expressed as sd scores . there was no difference in the final height of patients treated with vitamin d ( or 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d ) and phosphate for at least two years ( n = 12 ) and that of 16 hypophosphataemic family members who had never been treated . the mean final sd score ( -2.07 ) of treated patients , however , was significantly higher than the value before treatment ( -2.79 ) , which indicated an average absolute height gain of 4-4 .5 cm compared with the expected height values . six of the treated patients developed ultrasonographically detectable nephrocalcinosis with normal renal function . the daily phosphate intake and excretion of patients with nephrocalcinosis was significantly higher than that of patients with normal renal morphology . there was no difference in the doses of vitamin d between the two groups . the average urinary calcium : creatinine ratio of the two groups was similar to and below the hypercalciuric 0.6 mmol : mmol limit . the group with nephrocalcinosis , however , had a higher incidence of hypercalciuric episodes than the group without nephrocalcinosis ( 12 in 130 observations compared with six in 334 observations , respectively ) . the benefits and risks of treatment of patients with x linked hypophosphataemia must be further evaluated . the high dose of phosphate seems to be an important factor in the development of nephrocalcinosis in this group of patients . 
eight and 12 week courses of cyclophosphamide in nephrotic syndrome seventy-three children with steroid dependent minimal change nephrotic syndrome were randomly allocated to receive treatment with cyclophosphamide ( 2 mg/kg/day ) for either eight or 12 weeks , in combination with prednisolone . all patients had previously relapsed while the dosage was being reduced or within 14 days of discontinuing prednisolone in the six months before receiving cyclophosphamide treatment ( steroid dependent ) , and had severe steroid toxicity . thirty two patients were treated with cyclophosphamide for eight weeks , and 41 for 12 weeks . there were no differences between the two groups in age at onset of nephrosis or entry into the study , sex ratio , duration of nephrosis , number of relapses before entry , and follow up period after entry . the relapse free rate of patients treated for eight weeks ( 25 % ) was similar to that of those treated for 12 weeks ( 24 % ) five years after stopping the treatment , and the mean relapse free interval and the sparing effect of cyclophosphamide ( if any ) on subsequent treatment with steroids did not differ between the groups . we conclude that cyclophosphamide should be used for no longer than eight weeks at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day in children with steroid dependent minimal change nephrotic syndrome . 
predicting treatment outcome in nocturnal enuresis . a presenting sample of 127 consecutive referrals to a community based enuresis clinic were evaluated after treatment with baseline behavioural recording and the enuresis alarm . almost one in five became dry after baseline recording only while 81 of 96 ( 84 % ) enuretics who used the alarm achieved the initial dryness criterion . successful outcome was associated with the absence of adverse environmental factors and psychiatric disorders in the child . a logistic regression procedure enabled a risk score to be created so that successful outcome could be predicted . psychiatric disorder in the child , family stress , and the degree of concern shown by the child emerged as the most important prognostic factors in the treatment of enuresis . the favourable success rates with baseline recording and the enuresis alarm confirm the role of conditioning treatment at the forefront of management of enuresis and the risk score allows outcome to be predicted for the first time . 
5 alpha-reductase deficiency without hypospadias . a boy aged 4 with penoscrotal hypospadias and his brother aged 12 with micropenis had typical changes of homozygous 5 alpha-reductase deficiency . after three injections of chorionic gonadotrophin there was a trivial rise in plasma dihydrotestosterone with a normal increase in plasma testosterone . urine steroid chromatography showed abnormally high 5 beta : 5 alpha ratios and 5 alpha-reductase activity was appreciably reduced in genital skin fibroblasts . the results indicate that 5 alpha-reductase deficiency is not invariably associated with genital ambiguity . 
indomethacin responsive hypercalcaemia associated with a renal sarcoma . an infant presented with a non-metastatic renal spindle cell sarcoma and hypercalcaemia , which resolved after treatment with indomethacin . there was in vivo and in vitro evidence that hypercalcaemia was mediated by circulatory prostaglandins . 
severe hypertension after liver transplantation in alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency . five children with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency and terminal liver disease received liver grafts ; all five became hypertensive and four developed hypertensive encephalopathy . there was evidence of renal disease preoperatively and renal biopsy specimens showed variable glomerulonephritic histology with iga nephropathy in one , mesangial-proliferative changes in two , and mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis type i in two . four hypertensive episodes were preceded by a fall in creatinine clearance . the association of glomerulonephritis with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency in children is more common than has been recognised . affected patients are prone to severe hypertension of probable renal origin after liver transplantation and the renal lesion may affect long term prognosis . 
ultrasonography compared with intravenous urography in the investigation of adults with haematuria objective -- to compare ultrasonography with intravenous urography in the investigation of adults with haematuria . design -- prospective study entailing the examination of all patients with both investigations concurrently . the investigations were performed independently on routine lists by different duty radiologists . each was aware of the details of the request form but not of the findings of the other investigation . setting -- radiology department of a teaching hospital . patients -- 155 consecutive adult patients ( aged 18-93 ) referred from general practitioners and hospital outpatient clinics with a history of haematuria . follow up -- when results of both examinations proved normal no clinical or radiological follow up was sought . all abnormal findings of either investigation were correlated with results of subsequent imaging studies or operative findings . results -- 81 patients ( 52 % ) had normal findings on urography and ultrasonography . overall , the findings of ultrasonography concurred with those of urography in 144 cases ( 93 % ) . among the discrepant findings of the two investigations ultrasonography missed two ureteric calculi ; one was in a non-dilated ureter , and in the other case ultrasonography detected the secondary ureteric dilatation . ultrasound examination alone detected four bladder tumours not visible on urography with sizes ranging from 5 to 21 mm , representing one fifth of the 20 cystoscopically proved bladder tumours detected in the series . ultrasonography detected all the 22 neoplastic lesions discovered in the study ( 20 bladder , two renal ) . ultrasonography clarified the nature of renal masses evident in three urograms ( simple cysts ) . conclusions -- ultrasonography is a safe and accurate method of investigating the urinary tract in adults with haematuria . when combined with a single plain abdominal radiograph it proved to be superior to urography as the primary imaging study in this series . ultrasonography should certainly be preferred to urography if cystoscopy is not planned . no urothelial tumours of the upper urinary tract were found in the series , reflecting their rarity . for those patients in whom ultrasonography and plain radiography have shown no abnormality and in whom cystoscopic appearances are normal urography would be advisable to exclude urothelial tumours of the upper urinary tract . 
development of renal scars in children : missed opportunities in management . south bedfordshire practitioners ' group . objective -- to assess the antecedent medical care of children with renal scars . design -- retrospective study of both general practice and hospital records . setting -- 12 group practices in south bedfordshire and the radiology and paediatric outpatient departments of a district general hospital . subjects -- 23 children with renal scars ( six boys , 17 girls ) from the 12 group practices , identified from outpatient , radiology , and general practice records . main outcome measures -- number of children in whom a diagnosis of urinary tract infection had been made without prior examination of a mid-stream specimen of urine ; number of children who had had a confirmed urinary tract infection that had not been investigated further ; number who had experienced delays in investigation or referral ; and number who had received inadequate follow up . results -- in all , 11 of the children had received suboptimal medical care , but the management of the other 12 could not have been better . the most common error was failure to investigate possible urinary tract infections , but follow up of confirmed infections was also inadequate . these problems occurred in hospital as well as in general practice . conclusion -- opportunities for intervention had been missed in nearly half of this sample of children with renal scars . 
dilatation in the duplex kidney : 3 unusual cases . dilatation in the upper limb of a duplex ureter is usually secondary to obstruction and may be associated with a ureterocele . by contrast , vesicoureteric reflux is the usual cause of a dilated lower moiety ureter . we report 3 cases in which unusual or complex causes of dilatation of 1 limb of a duplex ureter were demonstrated . 
crystalluria , medullary matrix crystal deposits and bladder calculi associated with an acutely induced renal papillary necrosis . a single ( 100 mg/kg ) intraperitoneal dose of 2-bromoethanamine hydrobromide induced renal papillary necrosis ( rpn ) acutely in rodents and caused a transient crystalluria between 4 and 8 h after dosing . these crystals comprised struvite or magnesium ammonium phosphate ( map ) as assessed by shape , solubility , infra-red spectrum and x-ray microprobe analysis . acid-soluble , bi-refringent crystals were also present within the renal medullary matrix during the same time period as the crystalluria . the presence of the map was associated with loss of the anionic renal medullary mucopolysaccharides staining . a total of 5/64 rats with a 2-bromoethanamine-induced renal papillary necrosis and monitored for up to 160 days had bladder calculi that were predominantly map . these data suggest that medullary mucopolysaccharide matrix disruption associated with rpn leads to a release of previously bound cations , super-saturation and the nucleation of crystalline map . these processes could also be implicated in the formation of map bladder calculi . 
the encased ureter : bullet and bodkin pattern , a reliable radiographic sign . among the causes of constricted ureter is benign or malignant encasement . the diagnosis of ureteric encasement is frequently overlooked , even by well informed clinicians and radiologists . the most common benign cause is retroperitoneal fibrosis and the most frequent malignant causes are extension from an adjacent primary tumour , true metastases to the ureter and lymphoma . lack of recognition of the process may lead to mistaken diagnosis of an inflammatory stricture or infiltrating transitional cell tumour , with resultant inappropriate management . a sign which appears to be almost specific for encasement , the bullet and bodkin configuration , is described here . newer imaging modalities such as computed tomography and ultrasound , while helpful , are probably less sensitive and less specific than the retrograde ureterogram because a detectable mass is not always present . 
bladder function in the mentally retarded . a group of 21 mentally retarded patients with severe , long-standing urinary symptoms underwent urodynamical investigation . the most common abnormalities were detrusor areflexia and detrusor hyper-reflexia . of 11 patients treated surgically , 10 derived marked benefit . drugs were successful in reducing micturition problems in 3/6 patients . severely retarded patients with spastic quadriplegia are difficult to investigate and if this is associated with detrusor hyper-reflexia it is impossible to treat them in any way . severely retarded patients with detrusor areflexia and infrequent voiding can benefit from bladder outlet surgery . patients with moderate ( especially mild ) retardation can be investigated and treated in the same way as non-retarded people . 
oxybutynin hydrochloride ( 3 mg ) in the treatment of women with idiopathic detrusor instability . oxybutynin hydrochloride ( 3 mg ) was compared with placebo by randomised , double-blind crossover trial in 53 females with idiopathic detrusor instability . symptoms were cured or markedly improved in 60 % of patients on oxybutynin and 2.3 % on placebo . during the first treatment period , oxybutynin reduced the frequency of voiding by 35 % , compared with 9 % for placebo . oxybutynin gave a significantly greater improvement than placebo in volume at the first desire to void ( 70 ml increase versus 7.7 ml ) , maximum filling-phase detrusor pressure ( 17 cm h2o reduction versus no benefit ) and cystometric capacity ( 104 ml increase versus 7.0 ml ) . a marked oxybutynin carry-over effect was seen during the second treatment period . side effects from the 3 mg dose of oxybutynin caused 7.5 % of subjects to discontinue therapy . 
response to treatment of detrusor instability in relation to psychoneurotic status . a total of 53 females who entered a double-blind crossover trial of oxybutynin and placebo for idiopathic detrusor instability were questioned about life events and associated medical disorders and were given a psychometric test . their response to treatment was studied in relation to these factors . it was found that 11 % of patients had nocturnal enuresis beyond age 8 and 25 % had irritable bowel syndrome : their response to treatment was generally poor . life events were not consistently related to treatment response . the mean psychoneurotic score of " poor responders " ( 43.7 ) was similar to that of female psychoneurotic out-patients ( 47.7 ) , although one-third of poor responders were normal . patients who responded well to simple anticholinergic treatment had a mean score ( 30.7 ) , which was similar to that of normal urban females ( 33.5 ) . most good responders and one-third of poor responders showed little evidence of psychoneuroticism : a further search for neurophysiological abnormality in idiopathic detrusor instability is needed . 
double-blind , placebo-controlled , cross-over study of flavoxate in the treatment of idiopathic detrusor instability . detrusor instability occurs in approximately 10 % of the adult population , producing troublesome symptoms . the pharmacotherapy currently available is usually only partially effective and can not be adequately evaluated except under " blind " conditions because of the significant component attributable to placebo effects . the results of the present study revealed no advantage resulting from treatment with flavoxate , as assessed both subjectively and objectively . we suggest that this therapy does not appear to be beneficial in the medical management of detrusor instability . 
the perineal artificial sphincter for acquired incontinence -- a cut and dried solution ? sixteen males with stress incontinence due to sphincter damage were investigated with videourodynamic studies after implantation of a perineal artificial urinary sphincter . twelve patients were rendered dry ; 4 remained incontinent , all of whom were shown by cystometry to have incontinence from detrusor instability . of these , 2 also had stress incontinence proven by videourography . detrusor instability was present in 9 patients before implantation ; the instability worsened considerably in 2 patients and new instability was shown in another 2 patients . the limitations of the artificial urinary sphincter and the implications of detrusor instability in patients with an artificial sphincter are discussed . the artificial urinary sphincter is an extremely successful device for the treatment of acquired stress incontinence . 
urinary infection following out-patient flexible cystoscopy . of 161 flexible cystoscopies performed in an out-patient endoscopy suite , the incidence of urinary tract infection was 7.5 % . infection rates were higher in patients with a history of previous urinary tract infection or where an additional procedure was also performed . no difference was noted between the infection rates in men and women . 
radiotherapy for palliation of locally advanced prostatic carcinoma . some patients present with distressing symptoms due to locally advanced prostatic carcinoma which may be refractory to hormonal manipulation and/or surgical treatment . over an 8-year period 26 patients received local palliative radiotherapy for recurrent bleeding and lower urinary outflow tract obstruction . all were treated with conventional external beam radiotherapy and all but 2 obtained useful palliation of symptoms , especially those with recurrent bleeding . we also found that radiotherapy could be given to the majority of patients on an out-patient basis in 2 or 3 fractions . this was well tolerated and there were few side effects . 
serum levels of sex hormone binding globulin and oestradiol in patients with testicular cancer . serum testosterone ( t ) , oestradiol ( e-2 ) and sex hormone binding globulin ( shbg ) were measured in 84 orchiectomised testicular cancer patients before further treatment and 4 to 6 and 12 to 15 months after therapy . patients were divided into 3 groups according to treatment : group 1 : cisplatin-based chemotherapy ( 27 patients ) ; group 2 : abdominal radiotherapy ( 32 patients ) ; group 3 : no antiproliferative treatment ( chemotherapy/radiotherapy ) ( 25 patients ) . between 4 and 6 months after antiproliferative treatment , particularly after chemotherapy , a reversible significant increase in e-2 and shbg was observed . patients without antiproliferative treatment showed no significant changes in their comparable hormone levels ; 15 % of all normal t values were associated with elevated levels of shbg and e-2 . although the aetiology of these hormonal changes remains unknown , they may be related to the clinical symptoms of hypogonadism displayed by 10 to 30 % of patients undergoing treatment for testicular cancer . 
surgical approach to the retrocrural lymph nodes . removal of retrocrural lymph nodes requires an approach other than the infradiaphragmatic retroperitoneal access generally used in the surgical management of testicular tumours . the transperitoneal route given access , at best , to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery , but advanced testicular tumours occasionally require retrocrural node dissection . we describe a useful surgical approach to these nodes and the underlying anatomy . 
treatment of infants with neurogenic bladder dysfunction using anticholinergic drugs and intermittent catheterisation . the use of anticholinergic drugs in infants with neurogenic dysfunction has not been well documented . in this study , 35 neonates at risk of upper urinary tract damage from neurogenic dysfunction were treated from infancy with anticholinergics , in combination with clean intermittent catheterisation . none of the patients showed upper urinary tract deterioration with follow-up ranging from 6 to 72 months , although 2 required vesicostomy -- 1 due to difficulty with catheterisation and 1 due to possible anticholinergic side effects . only 2 ( 6 % ) have had clinical pyelonephritis . twenty-five ( 76 % ) are virtually dry between catheterisation . we conclude that anticholinergics are safe and effective , even in the neonatal period , when used in combination with clean intermittent catheterisation for the treatment of neonates with neurogenic bladder dysfunction . 
treatment with desmopressin in severe nocturnal enuresis in childhood . a series of 22 patients with severe nocturnal enuresis were treated with desmopressin in a randomised double-blind cross-over study . treatment with 20 and 40 micrograms was highly effective compared with placebo . no difference in dry nights was found between the 2 dosages . desmopressin proved to be a safe and effective treatment . 
the effect of post-pubertal varicocele on testicular volume . paediatric varicocele is a well known entity but its effect on adult infertility has not been adequately clarified . since measurement of testicular volume is currently the best method of estimating the male reproductive potential , 945 boys aged between 13 and 18 years were examined with regard to testicular volume and the incidence of varicocele . the average volumes for right and left testes were 15.087 + / - 0.237 and 14.514 + / - 0.347 ml respectively , and the incidence of varicocele was 16.7 % . the incidence increased from 14.5 to 21.7 % as the ages increased from 14 to 18 . the differences in volume of the 2 testes in boys with varicocele were statistically significant when compared with the normal group , but this significance failed to become more pronounced when the slight varicocele group ( grade i ) was included with the normal group and compared with the severe varicocele group ( grades ii and iii ) . there may be no significant differences between the volumes of the 2 testes in boys with varicocele when careful measurement and strict statistical analyses are applied . however , some boys in the varicocele group were found to have testicular volumes below the confidence interval ( mean - se ) or under 1 sd , and the 2 testicular volumes differed in certain age groups . this group requires further follow-up . the results of this study have added further contradictory findings to the issue of paediatric varicocele in terms of testicular atrophy , estimation of potential fertility and the indications for immediate surgery . there is a need for further prospective controlled trials . 
the influence of autologous lymphokine-activated killer cell infusions on the toxicity and antitumor effect of repetitive cycles of interleukin-2 . twenty patients with refractory malignancies were treated with a protocol evaluating the addition of ex vivo-activated autologous lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells to a clinically tolerable interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) regimen ( four weekly cycles of human recombinant il-2 at 3 x 10 ( 6 ) u/m2/day by continuous infusion for 4 days/week ) . sixteen patients completed their induction month of therapy , two had a partial response , six had stable disease , and eight had progressive disease . four patients had clinical toxicity preventing completion of the induction month of therapy , and one of these patients died during therapy . significant clinical toxicities included decreased performance status , weight gain , catheter-related thromboses , infectious complications , fever , hypotension , and dyspnea or hypoxemia requiring oxygen . thus , the addition of lak cell infusions to this il-2 regimen did not cause a noticeable change in antitumor response rate but did not cause more severe toxicity . 
the role of ifosfamide plus cisplatin-based chemotherapy as salvage therapy for patients with refractory germ cell tumors . a prospective study of four cycles of etoposide with ifosfamide and cisplatin ( vip ) chemotherapy was conducted in 42 germ cell tumor ( gct ) patients who were refractory to cisplatin with etoposide/vinblastine-based therapy . forty patients were evaluable for response . ten patients ( 25 % ) had a complete response : seven to chemotherapy alone and an additional three patients after surgical resection of viable gct . with a median follow-up of 15 months , four complete responders relapsed , and six patients ( 15 % ) remain in remission . hematologic and nephrotoxicity were moderately severe . durable complete responses with vip as second salvage were achieved and suggests that ifosfamide adds efficacy to standard first-salvage therapy . the observed nephrotoxicity and myelotoxicity are considerations in the design of ifosfamide-cisplatin-based regimens . hematopoietic growth factors may be useful in ameliorating myelotoxicity . the early use of ifosfamide-based chemotherapy may reduce the nephrotoxicity exacerbated by prior cisplatin . a trial of vip as first salvage after a relapse from a complete response to platinum-based induction therapy is warranted . the modest proportion of patients who achieve a durable remission to vip as second salvage emphasizes the need for more efficacious salvage therapy for patients who do not achieve a durable complete response . 
131i treatment of thyroid papillary carcinoma in a patient with renal failure . procedures for 131i ablation in renal failure are not known . in one patient receiving dialysis , detailed dosimetry and health safety aspects were obtained . the results showed insignificant contamination of equipment , but a surprisingly significant reduction in biologic half-life of 131i due to efficient dialysis extraction . the data indicate that 131i ablation can be done safely and easily during dialysis but that much higher 131i doses must be used to achieve equivalent results to those obtained in patients with normal renal function . 
prognostic significance of type iv collagen and laminin immunoreactivity in urothelial carcinomas of the bladder . invasion of a carcinoma involves the degradation and penetration of the subepithelial basement membrane ( bm ) . this phenomenon might be used for histopathologic evaluation of neoplasms of the bladder . the authors studied the clinicopathologic data and tissue specimens of 125 cases of urothelial carcinomas collected prospectively . penetration of the bm was evaluated by immunohistochemical staining of the bm components laminin and type iv collagen . the use of this parameter as a prognostic indicator in bladder cancer was assessed . the 5-year survival rate of patients having tumors with an interrupted or absent bm was significantly lower than that of patients having tumors with an intact bm . the rate of progression was greater in tumors with an interrupted or absent bm than in tumors with an intact bm . no association was found between bm status and recurrence . however , a significant correlation between tumor stage and bm staining was found . a correlation was also found between ploidy and bm staining as well as between histologic grade and bm staining pattern . when evaluating histologic grade , stage , ploidy , age , and bm score as prognostic parameters , the stage of bladder carcinomas turned out to be the most important factor in predicting the survival rate and the progression-free survival . however , bm staining was found to be of value for early identification of microinvasion and is helpful for correct staging of urothelial carcinomas . 
cancer of the urinary bladder in blacks and whites . a case-control study . racial differences in the risk of cancer of the urinary bladder associated with cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption were examined in a study of 1663 cases ( 1534 whites and 129 blacks ) and 4930 controls matched 3:1 by sex , race , and age to the cases . significant increases in cancer risk associated with cigarette smoking were observed in whites and blacks ; however , the dose-response patterns appeared to differ by race . in whites , statistically significant elevations of threefold and higher were observed in the odds ratios at all smoking levels above 20 pack-years , whereas in blacks , the corresponding point estimates did not increase significantly until greater than 60 pack-years of smoking . although these risk patterns are compatible with the higher incidence of bladder cancer in white men , the sample of blacks was small , and tests of significance were only suggestive of higher risks for whites at specific amounts of smoking ( p less than 0.15 ) . effects of alcohol consumption were inconsistent , and there was no detectable synergism between smoking and drinking . additional study of race-specific risk factors and tobacco metabolism will be needed to determine the true nature of the apparent racial differences in the risk of urinary bladder cancer associated with cigarette smoking . 
increased plasma histamine levels in uraemic pruritus . 1 . we determined plasma levels of histamine in uraemic patients and examined their correlation with the presence of pruritus . 2 . in 27 patients with chronic renal failure , plasma histamine levels were analysed by radioimmunoassay and were compared with those of 40 healthy adult subjects . the control population showed plasma histamine concentrations of 185 + / - 33 pg/ml , which were significantly lower than those of the patients with renal insufficiency . the highest levels ( 552 + / - 116 pg of histamine/ml ) were found in 16 patients with chronic renal failure ( mean serum creatinine 5.1 + / - 1.0 mg/dl ) and severe itching . 3 . twelve patients with pronounced pruritus who were on maintenance haemodialysis ( serum creatinine 9.2 + / - 1.2 mg/dl ) had a mean plasma histamine concentration of 515 + / - 81 pg/ml . fifteen patients on regular haemodialysis ( serum creatinine 9.0 + / - 1.5 mg/dl ) and who experienced itching had plasma histamine levels ( 322 + / - 40 pg/ml ) which were significantly lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than those of the patients with pruritus but which were elevated compared with those of the control population ( p less than 0.01 ) . 4 . no correlation could be found between increased plasma histamine levels and the type of dialysis membrane used or the method of sterilization of the membrane . 5 . haemodialysis alone did not reduce plasma histamine concentrations , although high concentrations could be detected in the ultrafiltrate . in six patients a rapid decrease in plasma histamine concentration from 565 + / - 134 pg/ml to within the normal range could be detected after 60 min of combined haemodialysis and haemoperfusion . 
protein turnover in uraemia in the rat . 1 . the effect of uraemia on the rates of protein synthesis and protein degradation in liver , heart and vastus lateralis muscle were examined in the rat . uraemia was induced by a five-sixths nephrectomy and the rates of protein turnover were compared with pair-fed sham-operated littermate controls . 2 . the procedure produced plasma concentrations ( means + / - sem ) of urea of 7.3 + / - 0.4 mmol/l in control and 39 + / - 2 mmol/l in uraemic rats , and of creatinine of 41 + / - 1 mumol/l in control and 133 + / - 7 mumol/l in uraemic rats . 3 . uraemia reduced the rates of protein synthesis in liver , heart and muscle by 35 + / - 5 , 4.0 + / - 1.2 and 4.0 + / - 0.6 % / day , respectively , compared with control rats ( p less than 0.01 ) . since the reductions in tissue growth rate were too small to be accounted for by the reduction seen in protein synthesis alone , this implied that protein degradation was also reduced . uraemia also caused an 18 % reduction in the rate of growth as measured by the increase in tail length ( p less than 0.01 ) . 4 . uraemia reduced both protein synthesis and protein degradation . protein synthesis exceeded protein degradation in all tissues . this would cause a reduced rate of protein accumulation in the uraemic compared with the control rats , and hence a reduced rate of growth . 
carcinogen hemoglobin adducts , urinary mutagenicity , and metabolic phenotype in active and passive cigarette smokers . in 100 healthy volunteers , we have studied the relationship between the type ( air - or flue-cured ) and number of cigarettes smoked and different biomarkers relevant to the risk of bladder cancer , including the levels of 4-aminobiphenyl ( abp ) hemoglobin adduct ( a marker of internal dose ) , urinary mutagenicity in salmonella typhimurium ta98 , and the n-acetylation phenotype ( a marker of susceptibility ) . abp is a potent bladder carcinogen that is n-acetylated as an overall detoxification step . levels of the abp hemoglobin adduct were higher in smokers of black tobacco ( air-cured ) than in smokers of blond tobacco ( flue-cured ) , confirming our earlier study . in addition , " slow " acetylators had higher levels of the abp hemoglobin adduct for the same type and quantity of cigarettes smoked . urinary mutagenicity was also associated with quantity of cigarettes but not with the acetylation phenotype . convex dose-response relationships were found between the amount smoked and abp hemoglobin adduct levels or urinary mutagenicity . in 15 nonsmokers who reported exposure to environmental tobacco smoke , abp hemoglobin adduct levels , unlike urinary mutagenicity , were found to be an aspecific exposure indicator . 
the use of interferon alpha-c in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma arising in a congenital solitary kidney . three cases of renal cell carcinoma in a congenital solitary kidney are presented . treatment with recombinant interferon alpha-c was administered in two cases . a subjective response occurred in one case . the literature is reviewed with respect to treatment options and prognostic factors . 
recurrent pain , illness intrusiveness , and quality of life in end-stage renal disease . repeated episodes of headache and muscle cramp were hypothesized to contribute to increased patient perceptions of illness intrusiveness and to compromised quality of life . standard measures of pain , illness intrusiveness , and quality of life were obtained on 2 occasions , each 6 weeks apart , from 100 end-stage renal disease patients . the impact of recurrent muscle cramps on perceptions of illness intrusiveness was conditional upon the occurrence of headache symptoms . perceptions of illness intrusiveness were significantly higher when both muscle cramp and headache symptoms occurred during one or more assessment intervals as compared to when muscle cramps or headaches , only , occurred . illness-related concerns and general feelings of pessimism were also significantly higher among patients who experienced recurrent episodes of muscle cramp . although no direct relations were observed between pain and other quality of life indicators , previous research has documented a relation between illness intrusiveness and quality of life . recurrent pain problems , thus , appear to contribute to increased illness intrusiveness and to reduced quality of life in end-stage renal disease patients . 
screening for slight albuminuria : a comparison of selected commercially available methods . slight albuminuria predicts clinically significant nephropathy in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) and early death in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . this study compares four commercially available methods for measuring low concentrations of urinary albumin . we tested random spot urine specimens from 50 nondiabetic volunteers and 100 diabetic patients . this specimen was chosen to simplify collection in an outpatient setting . two screening methods were evaluated for their ability to detect urinary albumin in the range of 15 to 200 mg/l . sensitivity and specificity were 100 % and 54.7 % , respectively , for the ames micro-bumintest ; and 95.5 % and 91.5 % , respectively , for the sclavo albumin screen . the high number of false-positive results made the micro-bumintest unacceptable . the albumin screen yielded fewer false-positive results , but also produced some false-negatives . two quantitative methods , a radioimmunoassay ( ria ) and a turbidimetric assay ( the spq microalbumin ) , yielded results that agreed well with each other . 
ulcerative lesions and herpes simplex virus type 2 in a patient with evan 's syndrome . we have described a case of herpes genitalis in a patient with evans 's syndrome who had violaceous macules leading to deep ulcerations . this case serves as a reminder that hsv infection may be atypical and have an unusual course in immunocompromised patients . with the availability of specific therapy for this infection , it is important to consider hsv in the differential diagnosis of all ulcerative skin lesions . 
surgical complications of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . surgical experience with 260 consecutive patients with chronic renal failure receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) at one medical center from 1980 to 1989 is reviewed . patients received capd for a mean of 24.2 months ( range : 3 days to 91 months ) . catheter longevity consistently improved in all but 1 year from 1984 to 1989 , as did exit-site and tunnel infections . of 311 catheters inserted , 151 ( 49 % ) required removal , of which 111 ( 74 % ) were attributed to peritonitis . cumulative patient survival was 80 % , 60 % , and 53 % at 1 , 2 , and 3 years , respectively . diabetic patients had statistically significant lower survival rates . additional complications including catheter leakage , catheter malposition , catheter obstruction , and abdominal wall hernias were negligible . although capd is not free from serious complications , our data show remarkable improvement since 1980 in catheter longevity , hospital stay , and infection rates . 
pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in an antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive patient with prior granulomatous aortitis . a 59-year-old man showed asynchronous development of noninfectious granulomatous aortitis with aneurysm , followed 9 months later by pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in association with elevated serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody levels . to our knowledge , the combination of large artery vasculitis and small vessel systemic vasculitis ( capillaritis ) has not been previously reported . this case may represent a hybrid type of systemic vasculitis combining features of giant cell arteritis and wegener 's granulomatosis . 
lack of prognostic value of nucleolar organizer region enumeration in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . enumeration of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions is of limited use in grading transitional cell tumors of the bladder . we attempted in this article to establish whether or not such a technique would be helpful in predicting the prognosis of such tumors within rather than between grades . in the study population of 11 high-grade transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder , no correlation was found between clinical outcome and mean nucleolar organizer region count . 
shortening of the hemodialysis procedure and mortality in " healthy " dialysis patients . the influence of shortening chronic hemodialysis on mortality was studied by following cumulative survival in " ideal " nondiabetic dialysis patients , who had no other diseases besides their renal disease when beginning dialysis . it was hoped that thereby problems of shortening dialysis could be separated from problems inherent in the patient . otherwise healthy dialysis patients ( n = 556 ) were divided into age groups ( less than 50 , 51-75 , and greater than 75 years ) and studied during four periods , 1966-75 , 1976-82 , 1983-85 , and 1986-88 . dialysis time was shortened from 17 to 2.7 hr per treatment during that time , but a kt/v of 1.3 maintained . generally , both first - and four-year cumulative survival improved as dialysis was shortened , and four-year cumulative survival was best in all age groups during 1986-88 when dialysis was shortest . during this time , the four-year cumulative survival was no different from that of the age-matched total u.s. population . shortening of dialysis time and increasing efficiency while keeping at least a 4.0 , stable , weekly kt/v has not been harmful to healthy patients on dialysis , but has led to continued improvement on cumulative survival . 
morbidity and mortality in hemodialysis patients . increase in mortality in hemodialysis patients in the united states is a rising concern . in this study , the annual mortality rate from 1981 to 1989 was determined and the morbidity and mortality of 136 patients dialyzed during 1988 was analyzed . all patients were followed with urea kinetics ( uk ) . patients were divided according to ncds mapping of bun and protein catabolic rate ( pcr ) : group 1 , inadequate protein intake ( n = 28 ) ; group 2 , adequate dialysis ( n = 51 ) ; group 3 , excessive dialysis ( n = 28 ) ; group 4 , undefined domain ( n = 13 ) ; and group 5 , transitional domain ( n = 16 ) . the uk parameters measured were midweek predialysis bun , pcr , and kt/v . group 1 by definition had the lowest pcr ( 0.7 g/kg/day vs. greater than 1.0 in the other groups ) . patients in group 1 had significantly lower bun , creatinine , hematocrit , and serum albumin . results of all other laboratory tests were not significantly different . numbers of hospitalizations and days in the hospital were higher in group 1 . causes of hospitalization were similar in all groups . mortality rate was 8 % in group 1 vs. 4.4 % in group 2 . dialysis prescription using uk has maintained the annual mortality rate at about 14 % for the past nine years . 
kt/v and hemodialysis morbidity revisited . analysis of the national cooperative dialysis study ( ncds ) showed that dialysis morbidity was related to kt/v . recently , various formulae have been shown to be accurate for easier calculation of kt/v . we calculated kt/v in an outpatient unit utilizing kt/v = - in ( r - 0.03 - uf/w ) in 51 patients . kt/v was less than 0.8 in 16 patients ( group a ) , 0.8-1 .0 in 20 ( group b ) , and greater than 1.0 in 15 ( group c ) . there was no difference in hematocrit ( hct ) , bun , creatinine , serum phosphorus , and albumin . ratio of men to women was 11/5 , 15/5 , and 4/11 ; mean age was 54 , 63 , and 58 years ; mean body weight 177 , 144 , and 122 lb in groups a , b , and c , respectively . dialysis-related hospital admissions were similar ( p greater than 0.05 ) . these data suggest patients with higher body weights , and men , frequently had a kt/v less than 0.8 . kt/v that did not influence biochemical parameters or hospitalizations in this population . this indicates that kt/v may not be a good predictor of morbidity , and/or some heavier patients may do fairly well even with a kt/v less than 0.8 . the search for a better index of dialysis adequacy should be continued . 
income and survival in chronic dialysis patients . the relationship between income and survival rates for chronic dialysis patients in michigan was examined . to evaluate the relative risk ( rr ) of dying , by income , a cox survival regression model was used to adjust for age , race ( black versus white ) , gender , dialytic treatment modality , year of first end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) therapy , and primary cause of esrd . the average household income reported from census data for the zip code of residence for each patient was analyzed as a socioeconomic indicator . treatment modality on day 120 of esrd was classified as either center hemodialysis ( hd ) or capd . all new patients , aged 20-59 and registered at the michigan kidney registry between 1/1/80 and 12/31/87 were included in the study . patients were followed from day 180 of esrd until death , censoring at transplant , or 12/31/87 . the adjusted relative risk of dying decreased for black patients by 3.3 % per $ 1,000 increase in income ( p less than 0.01 ) , while the trend by income for white patients was negligible ( p greater than 0.10 ) . the difference in trends for the two groups was statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . this is a surprising result , since white patients have higher death rates , overall , than do black patients , particularly among subgroups with diabetes and hypertension whose rr was 1.77 and 1.82 , respectively . poor socioeconomic status of the area of residence has a strongly negative effect on survival for black patients , but not for white patients . the reasons for the relationship of death rates with income , especially for black patients , need to be examined in greater detail . 
non-heparin hemodialysis with oral administration of newly developed antiplatelet agent . non-heparin hemodialysis ( hd ) was successfully done in anuric dogs with the oral administration of a newly developed antiplatelet agent , 4-cyano-5 ,5 - bis ( 4-methoxyphenyl ) -4 - pentenoic acid , ( e5510 , eisai pharmaceutical co. , japan ) . in the current study , the antithrombotic effect of e5510 during hd was investigated . eleven mongrel dogs with bilateral ureteral ligation were given 0.1 mg/kg of e5510 orally 1 hr before undergoing 4 hr hd using hollow fiber dialyzers , ( pmma 5 , regenerated cellulose 6 ) without heparin and under general anesthesia . blood samples were taken before the administration of e5510 and before and 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 hr after starting hd ; blood counts , hematocrits , blood chemistries , and plasma thromboxane levels ( txb2 ) were examined . platelet aggregation , activated clotting times ( act ) , and activated partial thrombin times ( aptt ) were also measured , and sequential plasma e5510 concentrations were determined . in 10 of 11 anuric dogs , non-heparin hd was successfully done with minimal clotting in the dialyzer and drip chambers . the maximum aggregation rate was depressed to less than 20 % of the initial value throughout hd . plasma txb2 concentration was depressed , and act and aptt were mildly , but not significantly prolonged . neither hemorrhagic complications nor other side effects of e5510 were observed . 
cardiac arrest after hypertonic citrate anticoagulation for chronic hemodialysis . the use of regional citrate anticoagulation as an alternative to standard therapy in hemodialysis patients at risk for bleeding complications has been well described . recently , a method using hypertonic citrate has been reported as being safe and efficacious , and having several advantages over the usual techniques . two patients who suffered cardiac arrests after dialysis using hypertonic citrate are discussed . both received anticoagulation as described in the literature , although the citrate infusion rate was lower than recommended . electrocardiograms obtained during the first such session showed no change in the q-tc interval with initiation of the infusion in either patient . both were noted to have cardiac arrest within 5 minutes of discontinuation of dialysis , without warning symptoms , following the second and fifteenth treatments , respectively . the initial rhythm of ventricular fibrillation did not respond to standard advanced cardiac life support therapy , and the patients were not successfully resuscitated until they received intravenous calcium . the authors postulate that the loss of positive calcium flux from the dialysate , in conjunction with circulating unmetabolized citrate , caused an electrolyte imbalance leading to the potentially fatal arrhythmia . caution is recommended in using this method of regional anticoagulation . 
effects of recombinant human erythropoietin on t lymphocyte subsets in hemodialysis patients . lymphocyte subpopulations were studied by immunofluorescence staining with monoclonal antibodies and laser flow cytometry in the blood of 23 hemodialysis patients before and after 3 months of treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin ( rhepo ) . correction of anemia was accompanied by an increase in natural killer cells and a decrease in b lymphocytes . in the 11 patients ( group 1 ) with a baseline helper/suppressor ( t4/t8 ) ratio greater than or equal to 2 , the latter significantly decreased from 3.0 + / - 0.3 to 2.1 + / - 0.3 through both an increase in t8 cells and a decrease in t4 cells ( p less than 0.005 ) . among the 12 patients with a pre-epo t4/t8 ratio less than 2 ( group 2 ) , no difference in t cell subsets was observed . the decrease in ferritin levels observed over the study period was not significant . in addition , the mean increase in hemoglobin levels during the first month of rhepo therapy was greater in group 2 than in group 1 ( 1.1 + / - 0.3 vs. 0.6 + / - 0.3 g/dl , p less than 0.025 ) . no change in any parameter was observed in eight control patients not receiving rhepo . these results suggest that rhepo can induce changes in lymphocyte subpopulations of hemodialysis patients through mechanism ( s ) yet to be clarified ; conversely , the t4/t8 ratio might be a predictive factor for the erythropoietic response to rhepo . 
effectiveness of low dose erythropoietin : a possible advantage of high flux hemodialysis . recombinant human erythropoietin ( epo ) was administered to 32 stable out-patients with end-stage renal disease ( esrd ) on a priority basis three times a week . all patients underwent dialysis with polysulfone hollow fiber dialyzers . mean time-averaged blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) value was 50 + / - 12 mg/dl , and kt/v for urea was 1.20 + / - 0.34 / dialysis . the initial dose of epo was 2,800 + / - 950 u/dialysis ( 45 + / - 17 u/kg/dialysis ) . the maintenance dose averaged 2,500 u/dialysis . within the mean time of observation , 15 + / - 4 weeks , all but one patient responded to epo by eliminating transfusion requirements , and 29 of 32 achieved the target hematocrit of 30-33 % . for patients with hematocrits below 25 % before epo , the increase averaged 1.6 + / - 0.8 % / week . the dose of epo was lower and the hematocrit response was higher than reported previously . the rate of increase in hematocrit did not correlate with small molecular weight solute removal . mean red blood cell survival was 52 + / - 18 days . no adjustments in blood pressure ( bp ) medications or dry weight were required to control bp . these data and earlier experiences with recovery from the anemia of esrd after more effective dialysis suggest that the bone marrow response to epo may be augmented by high flux hemodialysis . 
leukocyte overshoot : a new sign of bioincompatibility in fast hemodialysis . a high blood flow of 400 ml/min induces leukocytosis after 2 hr of dialysis with leukocyte concentrations of 110-150 % of predialysis values . the leukocytosis occurs with both low and high biocompatible membranes , such as cuprophan , hemophan , and polyamide . cuprophan induces the most profound leukopenia , and also induces the most pronounced leukocytosis . for treatments with a given membrane there was , however , no correlation between leukopenia and leukocytosis . leukopenia was independent of blood flow , while leukocytosis was strongly influenced by this factor . these observations indicate that different factors cause leukopenia and leukocytosis . although a larger area induced more leukopenia , the effect was small . membrane area had no effect on leukocytosis . there were no acute clinical side effects during dialysis that could be related to the leukocyte overshoot . the cause and chronic clinical consequences of leukocyte overshoot are unknown . 
sterile versus non-sterile dialysis fluid in chronic hemodialysis treatment . as the quality of water in the dialysis fluid varies considerably , and in view of the fact that endotoxin or active derivatives can cause acute side effects in patients , the dialysis fluid must be sterile . therefore , we introduced ultrafiltration of dialysis fluid before entering the dialyzer . fifteen patients , ( ten women , five men ) were treated for 4 weeks with nonsterile , and then with sterile dialysis fluid . the bacterial loading in the dialysis fluid before hemodialysis was 1.34 x 10 ( 5 ) / ml , and after hemodialysis 2.9 x 10 ( 3 ) / ml ; the endotoxin concentration was high and varied between less than 1 eu/ml and greater than 10 eu/ml before and after hemodialysis . after ultrafiltration of the dialysis fluid by a polyamide hollow fiber membrane , all samples were free of bacteria and the concentration of endotoxin was lower than the detectable limit ( less than 0.03 and less than 0.5 eu/ml ) . with ultrafiltration of dialysis fluid we can obtain sterile dialysate , which is endotoxin free . interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor in the patients with ultrafiltration was significantly lower than without ultrafiltration . 
low-dose heparinization can be used with deae-cellulose hemodialysis membranes . the ability of deae-cellulose ( hemophan ) membranes to bind heparin may reduce bioavailable heparin and predispose to dialyzer clotting , thus preventing use of hemophan with low-dose heparin . to examine this possibility , residual blood volumes were determined following 95 treatments with dialyzers containing hemophan membranes in 11 patients . no heparin was added to the saline used to prime the dialyzers . the anticoagulant effect of heparin was measured using recalcified activated clotting times ( ract ) . two heparin doses , calculated by a pharmacokinetic model to increase baseline ract by 12.5 % and 25 % , were used for each patient . the mean heparin loading doses were 10.2 + / - 2.8 and 15.3 + / - 2.2 iu/kg , respectively , and the mean infusion rates were 11.1 + / - 3.2 and 14.7 + / - 3.2 iu/kg/h , respectively . residual blood volumes were determined by red cell lysis and hemoglobinometry . in 88 treatments , residual blood volume averaged 1.6 + / - 1.5 ml . in the other seven treatments , residual blood volume greater than 10 ml was seen . in five of these cases , clotting appeared to propagate from the arterial drip chamber . residual blood volume did not correlate with the level of heparin . the data show that low-dose heparin can be used with hemophan membranes , and suggest that blood tubing design may be an important factor in blood circuit clotting during hemodialysis . 
ionic strength affects diffusive permeability to an inorganic phosphate ion of negatively charged dialysis membranes . electrolytes undergo electrostatic resistances in reaching membrane surfaces and passing through membrane pores when weakly charged dialysis membranes are used in hemodialysis treatments . diffusive permeability to an electrolyte of weakly charged dialysis membranes depends upon the effective charge density of the membranes , which varies with ionic strength . the authors carried out dialysis experiments at a temperature of 310 k , with 32p-na2hpo4 in aqueous nacl and bovine serum , to obtain diffusive permeability to an inorganic phosphate ion of regenerated cellulose , and polymethylmethacrylate membranes of various fixed charge densities at varying ionic strengths ranging from 1.66 to 100 mol/m3 . diffusive permeability to an inorganic phosphate ion increased with ionic strength . bovine serum , having an ionic strength of approximately 150 mol/m3 , gave higher diffusive permeability to an inorganic phosphate ion . the internal structure of dialysis membranes , such as pore size , surface porosity , and tortuosity , also affects diffusive permeability . the electrolyte diffusion theory gives an effective charge density of -5.3 mol/m3 for the cellulosic membrane . in conclusion , ionic strength enhances diffusive permeability to an inorganic phosphate ion in both aqueous nacl and bovine serum . inorganic phosphate ion transport through negatively charged dialysis membranes depends upon the degree of dissociation of inorganic phosphate , the molecular size and valence of hydrated inorganic phosphate ion , the effective charge density and internal structure of the membrane , and ionic strength . 
( a ) typical symptoms during single needle dialysis . in 5 elderly patients , an abnormally high occurrence of some symptoms was noted during dialysis . all patients were dialyzed with biocompatible membranes , bicarbonate dialysate , and a blood flow of 250 to 300 ml/min by a single needle system , on a fistula 14 gauge catheter-needle . these symptoms were : 1 ) " angina , " resistant to o2 and nitrates , with biochemical stigmata of infarction , but without electrocardiogram ( ecg ) localization ; 2 ) intractable persistent hypotension , not hypovolemic , lasting 1 or 2 days ; 3 ) esophagal spasms , with inability to swallow solid food . because we knew that these symptoms were compatible with hemolysis ( biochemically proven by the increase in serum ldh during dialysis and by a fall in haptoglobin ) due to red cell fragmentation ( rcf ) , we switched these patients from fistula dialysis ( a ) to central catheter dialysis ( b ) , with the same apperture , blood flow , etc . the total number of sessions of a versus b were 512 and 891 ; the mean ldh ratios ( serum ldh postdialysis divided by predialysis ) were 1.8 and 1.0 ( = no rcf ) ; angina events were 132 ( 26 % ) for a , and 25 ( 3 % ) for b ; persistent hypotension was seen 37 ( 7 % ) times in a and 5 ( 0.6 % ) times in b ; esophagal spasms were noted 65 ( 13 % ) times for a , and 0 times for b. this clinical improvement was so overwhelming that 3 patients refused to be dialyzed again using their well functioning fistulae . this study also proved the need for a better designed and manufactured peripheral dialysis catheter-needle . 
rapid methods of estimating kt/v : three formulas compared . three rapid formulas for kt/v were compared : 1 ) kt/v-pru = 0.04 * pru-1 .2 ; 2 ) kt/v-pruopt = 0.026 * pru-0 .46 ; and 3 ) ktv-ln = - in ( r-0 .03 - uf/w ) . accuracy was compared in a database of 339 3/week modeling sessions in 256 patients . the standard of comparison was kt/v obtained by 3 point variable volume single pool modeling , using k values estimated from koa , qb , qd , and uf rate . the most accurate formula was kt/v-ln , which correlated with kt/v to a high degree ( 0.994 ) , and with a [ % error ] of only 2.2 + / - 1.7 ( sd ) . there was no correlation of % error with the modeled kt/v . the least accurate formula was kt/v-pru . although the correlation of kt/v-pru with modeled kt/v was high ( 0.962 ) , the [ % error ] was 12.0 + / - 11 , and % error correlated significantly with modeled kt/v ( 0.68 ) . the kt/v-pruopt showed a high correlation with modeled kt/v ( 0.962 ) , and a [ % error ] of 5.0 + / - 3.8 ; the latter had a minimal correlation with modeled kt/v ( -0.168 ) . the relative accuracies of the three formulae were : kt/v-ln vs. kt/v-pru = 5.98 , kt/v-ln vs. kt/v-pruopt = 2.45 . the results suggest that kt/v-ln is a more accurate estimate of kt/v than any formula based on pru alone . 
various methods for calculation of kt/v : a clinical comparison . analysis of the national cooperative dialysis study ( ncds ) showed that dialysis morbidity and mortality was related to kt/v of urea . various formulas have been derived to make calculation of kt/v simpler . we compared the kinetically measured kt/v ( a ) to estimated kt/v derived from approximate total body water ( 0.6 body weight ) and uniform dialyzer clearance ( b ) , kt/v = 0.04 pru-1 .2 where pru is % reduction in bun ( c ) and kt/v = in ( r-0 .03 - uf/w ) where r is post/pre bun , uf is ultrafiltration l/hd and w is postdialysis weight ( d ) in 26 patients . the correlation coefficient ( r ) was 0.14 ( p less than 0.05 ) for a vs. b ; 0.75 ( p less than 0.01 ) a vs. c ; 0.77 ( p less than 0.01 ) a vs. d ; and 0.97 for c vs. d. in an additional 51 patients , kt/v was calculated using formulas b , c , and d. the r was 0.91 c vs. d , 0.70 b vs. d , and 0.68 b vs. c. with b , greater than 30 % of the patients could have been misclassified using ncds criteria for adequacy of dialysis . the study suggests that use of formulas c and d , but not b , is appropriate and accurate for kt/v calculation . formula c may be simpler and easier than d , as uf and w are not required . serial kt/v could be easily and accurately calculated using c and d for quality assurance and quantitation of dialysis . 
peritoneal macrophage beta-2 microglobulin production and bacterial peritonitis in capd patients . to evaluate the role of bacterial peritonitis in peritoneal macrophage ( pm ) beta-2 microglobulin ( b2m ) production , and its relationship with pm interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) and leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) release , the authors studied 20 capd patients ( 10 with peritonitis ) : 1 . in vivo plasma and peritoneal dialysis effluent ( pde ) b2m , il-1 , and ltb4 levels ; 2 . in vitro b2m , il-1 , and ltb4 release by pm . values were compared with those seen in the plasma or with peripheral blood monocytes of 30 hemodialysis ( hd ) patients ( 10 treated with cuprophan [ cu ] ; 10 with polyacrylonitrile [ pan ] ; and 10 with cellulose acetate [ ca ] ) . results showed that in capd patients with bacterial peritonitis b2m , il-1 and ltb4 concentrations in the pde were significantly higher than those seen in capd patients without peritonitis , or in the plasma of hd patients treated with pan or ca , but were similar to those seen in hd patients treated with cu . at the same time , in vitro pm from capd patients with bacterial peritonitis produced more b2m , il-1 , and ltb4 , than did pm from capd patients without peritonitis , or peripheral blood monocytes from hd patients treated with pan or ca . the authors conclude that in capd patients , bacterial peritonitis is able to induce pm b2m production , probably via a cytokine mediated process , which may be analogous to what occurs with peripheral blood monocytes of hd patients treated with cu . 
evaluation of plasma sodium concentration during hemodialysis by computerization of dialysate conductivity . kinetics modeling based on sodium mass balance and changes in conductivity at the dialysate outlet compared to that at the dialysate inlet , led to predicting the plasma water conductivity of the blood inlet . conductivity transducers , with temperature compensation , located at the dialysate inlet and outlet ports of the dialyzer and connected to a conductimeter , were interfaced with a portable computer for data acquisition . in 38 dialysis sessions , a close relationship was found between estimated plasma water conductivity ( cdbi ) and measured plasma sodium concentration [ na ] bi , according to the formula : cdbi = 0.101 [ na ] bi + 0.37 ( n = 38 ; r = 0.922 ) . the study shows that plasma sodium concentration at the dialyzer inlet could be evaluated , with a standard error of + / - 1.5 meq/l , by continuous measurement of conductivity gradient between dialysate inlet and outlet . 
altered pattern of calcium kinetics in hemodialysis patients after parathyroidectomy . six hd patients with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism ( shpt ) underwent studies of calcium kinetics prior to and after parathyroidectomy ( ptx ) with autotransplantation . postoperatively , patients received vitamin d and calcium supplementation . before ptx , a markedly elevated bone turnover was found , with increased fluxes of calcium from plasma into the exchangeable calcium pool . this pool was three times larger than normal , indicating a high risk of extraosseous calcifications . despite a marked fall in parathyroid hormone ( ipth ) levels after ptx , bone cell activity was maintained , as indicated by elevated values for ca retention . although ca efflux from plasma into other compartments of the exchangeable pools remained above normal , the size of the total exchangeable calcium pool markedly decreased after ptx , indicating that ptx with autotransplantation , followed by vitamin d therapy , can normalize bone turnover and shift the balance of calcium flux towards mineralized bone . reduction in the exchangeable calcium pool may explain the clinical finding that extraosseous calcifications regress in some patients after ptx . 
pressure effects on roller pump blood flow during hemodialysis . accurate measurement of blood flow during hemodialysis is essential to avoid underdialysis . when blood roller pumps are pushed to the high-flow rates demanded by high performance dialyzers , flow may be overestimated . this study examined the effect of inflow ( pa ) and outflow ( pv ) pressures induced by hemodialysis roller pumps on flow in vitro and in vivo . blood flow was measured volumetrically , and with an ultrasonic flow probe , whereas pa was adjusted from -50 to -400 torr and pv from 50 to 300 torr . only pa influenced flow . at -200 torr , true flow measured volumetrically averaged 8.5 % + / - 1.3 % less than the blood pump revolutions per minute ( rpm ) meter reading . at -400 torr , the difference was 33.0 % + / - 1.9 % . there was no visible indication that flow was reduced to less than pump meter readings . pv , hematocrit , and the source of pump tubing had no significant effect . flow measured with an ultrasonic transit-time probe during routine hemodialysis in 64 patients was 9.0 % + / - 2.7 % less than pump meter readings when pa varied from -180 to -220 torr . blood pump meter readings greater than 400 ml/min were usually inaccurate because of low pa . prepump monitoring of arterial inflow pressure can prevent hidden reductions in blood flow that decrease dialysis efficiency . 
change in sympathetic activity before , during , and after dialysis-induced hypotension . during the hemodialyses of eight patients with end-stage renal failure , who often had sudden-onset dialysis-induced hypotension , catecholamine ( ca ) levels were measured in the ultrafiltrate obtained by a mini-filter placed in series upstream of the dialyzer . the water evaporation rate from the skin ( reflecting the perspiration rate ) was also monitored . results showed a temporary elevation in ca levels in the ultrafiltrate before hypotension occurred . this rise did not continue for long , returning to baseline when hypotension actually occurred . the temporary elevation may reflect transient compensation by the sympathetic nervous system for the decrease in vascular wall tension . it was also found that there was considerable water evaporation from the skin during hypotension . because sweat gland activity is reflexively modulated by the baroreceptor , perspiration after a drop in blood pressure may reflect the normal diminiution in baroreceptor activity . 
benefit of bicarbonate dialysis during cavhd . the effect of bicarbonate dialysate ( bd ) on acid-base status in six pediatric cavhd patients was examined during seven episodes of metabolic acidosis . when metabolic acidosis was not corrected with cavhd , a sterile bd was substituted for either acetate - or lactate-based dialysate . pre - and post-bd substitution levels of lactate , hco3 , pco2 , anion gap , and ph were recorded , as well as dose of intravenous ( i.v. ) bicarbonate . improvements in ph and serum hco3 were seen in all seven cases . anion gap decreased in all but one of the patients who were switched from lactate to bicarbonate dialysate , with improvement most marked in those patients with marked elevation of the anion gap . no adverse effect on pco2 was noted . lactate dialysate may be less effective when serum lactate levels are high , and may contribute to further elevation of lactate levels and anion gap . these data suggest that bicarbonate dialysate may be preferable to lactate or acetate dialysate in cavhd patients with persistent metabolic acidosis . 
modulation of peritoneal macrophage antimicrobial activity by peritoneal dialysis fluid , ca + + , and 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 in capd patients . previous in vitro studies showed that ca + + and 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 modulate peritoneal macrophage ( pm0 ) antimicrobial activity in capd patients . twenty-four capd patients were evaluated in vivo ( 12 who had never had peritonitis , and 12 with an overall peritonitis incidence of more than one episode per 8 patient/months ) , for the effects of different peritoneal dialysis fluids ( pdf ) and ca + + concentrations ( 1.25 , 1.75 , and 2.25 mmol/l ) on pm0 : cytoplasmic ca + + concentration ; superoxide generation ; leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) release ; and bacterial killing for staphylococcus epidermidis . the same parameters were also evaluated after adding 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 ( 0.25 microgram/l ) to the pdf . results showed a direct correlation between the pdf ca + + concentration and pm0 ca + + levels , superoxide and ltb4 generation , and bacterial killing such that , with 2.25 mmol/l of ca + + , these values were significantly higher than those seen with 1.75 mmol/l . the addition of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 potentiated the ca ( + + ) - induced effects . on the other hand , with pdf ca + + levels of 1,25 mmol/l , an inhibition of the aforementioned parameters was seen . however , this effect was reversed by the addition of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 . these in vivo results confirm the importance of ca + + and 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 in pm0 antibacterial function in capd patients , and may be useful in determining the prophylaxis and therapy of peritonitis . 
long-term experience with swan neck missouri catheters . the swan neck missouri catheters are designed to reduce major complications including 1 ) exit/tunnel infections , by a downward directed exit hole ; 2 ) pericatheter leaks , by placement of the deep cuff in the rectus muscle ; 3 ) catheter tip migration , by caudal direction of the intraperitoneal segment ; and 4 ) outer cuff extrusion , by a permanent bend between the 5 cm or 3 cm spaced cuffs in sn-m2 and sn-m3 catheters , respectively . between april 1986 and april 1990 , 103 swan neck catheters were implanted . comparison of prospective data from 103 swan neck catheters and retrospective data from 148 standard ( tenckhoff and toronto western hospital ) catheters implanted between january 1982 and june 1985 showed reduced complication rates with swan neck catheters . an overall survival of 64 % at 36 months for swan neck catheters is significantly better than that of 29 % for standard catheters . 
a prospective randomized evaluation of chronic peritoneal catheters . insertion site and intraperitoneal segment . the insertion site ( midline or through the lateral rectus muscle ) and type of chronic dialysis catheter ( straight or spiral intraperitoneal segment ) were evaluated in a prospective randomized trial . dialysis catheter complications and catheter survival were the endpoints of evaluation . eighty-five first catheters were evaluated . neither race , gender , renal diagnosis , type of catheter , nor insertion site was a determinant of dialysis catheter survival . overall median catheter survival was 308 days . there were 40 catheter complications ( 70 % , n = 28 ) that occurred during the first 61 days following insertion . median time to the first complication occurring within the first 61 days was 3 days . late catheter removals were due to peritonitis episodes that failed to resolve . complications are frequent with peritoneal dialysis catheters , and care of the peritoneal dialysis catheters requires constant vigilance . 
complications of tenckhoff catheters post removal . complications due to tenckhoff catheters can occur at prolonged intervals after their removal . from january 1979 to october 1989 , 431 patients at our center began continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) , 278 of whom subsequently transferred to another form of renal replacement therapy . we identified 12 patients ( 4.3 % or 12/278 ) with post removal catheter complications . there were 14 post removal complications , two each in two patients , and one in each of 12 others . the mean time to complication was 541 + / - 143 days ( 27-2 ,040 ) . in 71 % ( 10/14 ) of the complications , an abscess was found at the site of the previously removed tenckhoff catheter . in 29 % ( 4/14 ) of the complications , foreign body material consistent with a retained cuff was recovered . documentation at the time of tenckhoff catheter removal should include a statement regarding the presence of the tenckhoff catheter cuffs , and patients with retained cuffs should be monitored closely for the development of abscesses or other complications . immunocompromised patients are at high risk for these complications . 
phenotypic characterization of monocytes and macrophages from capd patients . the purpose of this study was to phenotypically characterize and compare peripheral blood monocytes from capd patients with peritoneal macrophages isolated from their peritoneal dialysis effluents . monocytes/macrophages were labeled with fluorescent ligands or monoclonal antibodies specific for 1 ) receptors for c5a , formyl-met-leu-phe ( fmlp ) ; fc region of igg ; c3b ( cr1 ) ; and c3bi ( cr3 ) , 2 ) class ii histocompatibility antigens hla-dr and hla-dq ; and 3 ) monocyte/macrophage surface antigen cd14 . the cells were analyzed using flow cytometry . results indicated that there were no differences between monocytes and peritoneal macrophages in their receptor expression for fmlp , cr1 , or cr3 . however , paired t-testing indicated that peritoneal macrophages had significantly increased expression of fc and c5a receptors , as well as enhanced antigen expression of hla-dr , hla-dq , and cd14 . these results suggest that peritoneal macrophages from capd patients are activated with increased expression of receptors and antigens important in host defense . 
therapeutic effects of simvastatin on hyperlipidemia in capd patients . a causal link between hypercholesterolemia due to elevated plasma concentrations of ldl and vldl remnants of capd patients has been established . the effects of 24 weeks of treatment with simvastatin , a new hmg coenzyme a-reductase inhibitor ( at 20 and 40 mg/day ) on serum lipid , lipoprotein , and apolipoprotein a-i and b concentrations , as well as safety parameters and subjective side effects , were evaluated in eight patients ( mean duration capd 24.80 + / - 7.50 months , age 54.50 + / - 13.70 years ) . maximal effects on plasma lipoprotein and apolipoprotein concentrations were achieved after 4 weeks , and remained stable thereafter during the study . mean fasting plasma cholesterol concentrations decreased from 280.5 + / - 60.2 mg % to 190.2 + / - 40.4 mg/dl ( p less than 0.005 ) ( -47 % ) ; mean plasma ldl-cholesterol concentrations also decreased from 257.6 + / - 13.4 mg % to 190.5 + / - 15.4 mg/dl ( p less than 0.001 ) ( -35 % ) . apolipoprotein a and b concentrations decreased significantly from 1.78 + / - 0.19 to 1.40 + / - 0.22 g/l ( p less than .005 ) and 1.81 + / - 0.26 to 1.38 + / - 0.20 g/l ( p less than .005 ) . these data substantiate the view that simvastatin is well tolerated and that no serious clinical or adverse laboratory effects have been observed . it appears to be a promising drug for the effective control of hyperlipemia in a large proportion of hypercholesterolemic patients , reducing their cardiovascular morbidity while on capd . 
influence of phosphatidylcholine on ultrafiltration and solute transfer in capd patients . fifteen patients ( mean age 59.9 + / - 16.1 years ) treated by capd for a mean of 21.6 + / - 14 months , underwent peritoneal clearances before and after 15 days of intraperitoneal phosphatidylcholine ( pc ) treatment ( 50 mg/l ) . no difference was observed in urea , creatinine , uric acid , and reverse dextrose clearances . a statistically significant increase in phosphate clearances ( 4 and 6 hr dwell times ) ( 1.36 % ) and a reduction in drainage volume ( 2 hr dwell time ) ( 1.36 % ) were observed after treatment . urine output and percent dextrose reabsorption were unchanged . the ultrafiltration ( uf ) showed a tendency to increase , which lasted for 15 days after discontinuation of treatment . this tendency allowed the patients to reduce , during the same period , the amount of hypertonic solution ( 23.8 l vs. 21.3 l ) required . the tendency to increase uf over time deserves further study . 
chronic nightly tidal peritoneal dialysis . nightly tidal peritoneal dialysis ( ntpd ) is a technique in which , after an initial fill of the peritoneal cavity , only a portion of dialysate is rapidly cycled . five anuric , stable , pd patients entered a 4 month study to determine the ntpd session length necessary for clinically adequate dialysis and creatinine clearance similar to those on four daily 2 l capd exchanges . ntpd was performed using a modified pac-x-2 cycler , with the drain phase regulated by a target volume . one patient completed 3.5 months of study , one 4 months , three 6 months , and one patient each continued on ntpd for 13 , 14 , and 32 months . the mean ntpd session time was 9 hr 24 min ( range 8 hr 35 min to 9 hr 55 min ) at the end of 4 months . all patients had clinically adequate dialysis . three patients preferred ntpd over capd , particularly because of an empty abdomen during the daytime . one patient required an increase in ntpd time , and an addition of one daytime exchange , because of low creatinine clearance . in conclusion , ntpd provides weekly creatinine clearances comparable to capd , with an acceptable duration of nightly dialysis sessions in most anuric patients . a new pd machine providing inexpensive dialysis solution in large quantities , as well as safe and false alarm free dialysis sessions , is needed for practical ntpd implementation . 
biocompatibility of dialysis membranes is of no importance for objective or subjective symptoms during or after hemodialysis . the clinical importance of biocompatibility of hemodialysis membranes is a matter of controversy . the authors studied the relationship between biocompatibility and acute symptoms during hemodialysis ( hd ) . twenty-three patients underwent 12 different bicarbonate hd using cuprophan , hemophan , or polyamide membranes for short ( 2 hr ) and long ( 4 hr ) treatments , with small or large membrane areas . subjective and objective symptoms were registered during hd and 12 and 36 hours thereafter . type of membrane , membrane area , or kt/v were of no importance for the occurrence of subjective or objective symptoms . the patients registered fewer symptoms during 2 hr hd with high blood flow than during 4 hr hd with slow blood flow ( p = 0.04 ) . headache was particularly more frequent during the 4 hr hd . blood pressure , and to some extent subjective symptoms , were influenced by ultrafiltration volume but not by type of membrane . biocompatibility is not a determinant of acute side effects of hemodialysis . 
clinical effects of a polyethylene glycol grafted cellulose membrane on thrombogenicity and biocompatibility during hemodialysis . the biocompatibility and thrombogenicity of polyethylene-glycol ( peg ) - grafted cellulose hemodialysis ( hd ) membranes ( pegc ) were investigated in cross-over hd of five hd patients with ordinary cellulose ( oc ) . the pegc significantly suppressed transient leukocyte and thrombocytopenia , and release of c3a , beta-thromboglobulin and platelet factor 4 , in corresponding with the quantity of grafted peg . hd with pegc resulted in lower granulocyte elastase production , protein and blood cells adsorption on the membrane surface than those with oc . minimum heparin in hd with pegc was three times lower than that with oc , with the thrombin-antithrombin iii complex elevation lower than that in hd with oc . the results indicate that the grafted peg effectively suppresses blood and membrane interaction , thus improving biocompatibility and reducing thrombogenicity in clinical hd . 
difference in beta 2-microglobulin removal between cellulosic and synthetic polymer membrane dialyzers . several kinds of dialyzers , with highly permeable membranes ( hpm ) , have been designed to specifically remove beta 2-microglobulin ( bmg ) . to clarify their solute transport characteristics , nine types of hpm dialyzers were evaluated during in vivo and in vitro studies using human plasma and aqueous solutions . no bmg membrane adsorption and/or plugging was seen with cellulosic membrane dialyzers during in vitro experiments using human plasma . on the other hand , all synthetic polymer membrane dialyzers had adsorptive properties , and in a dialyzer with a polymethylmethacrylate membrane , a large amount of bmg was removed by adsorption alone . dialyzers with cellulose triacetate and polyacrylonitril membranes showed higher values of bmg diffusive dialysance ( greater than 20 ml/min ) and sieving coefficient ( greater than 0.9 ) . from in vitro experiments using an aqueous solution containing several solutes with relatively small or middle molecular weights , all hpm dialyzers had a higher overall mass transfer coefficient than any conventional membrane dialyzer . 
one year of rhuepo therapy prolongs rbc survival and may stabilize rbc membranes despite natural progression of chronic renal failure to uremia and need for dialysis . rhuepo was administered to eight patients with chronic renal failure ( crf ) and uremia ( u ) for 1 year . creatinine clearance ( gfr ) averaged 14.3 ( 9-25 ) ml/min at an hct of 28 % ( 26-30 ) . baseline rbc survival by 51cr t1/2 was highly correlated with gfr ( r = 0.66 ) , p less than 0.05 ( 2 ) , average 21.6 days . repeat 51cr t1/2 at 3 months with gfr 10 ml/min at hct 38 % was prolonged by 7 days to 28.6 ( p less than 0.005 ) , and at 1 year remained increased to 28 days ( p less than 0.001 ) with hct 39 % , despite further decreased gfr to less than 4 ml/min and need for dialysis . reticulocytes varied from 1.6 % to 7.4 ( 3-6 weeks ) to 3.1 ( 3 months ) and 1.5 % ( 1 year ) . bone marrow cellularity increased from 36 % to 47 % ( 3 months ) and 44 % ( 1 year ) . m : e ratio decreased from 3.9:1 to 1.7:1 ( 3 months ) to 1.6:1 ( 1 year ) . marrow iron decreased from 4.1 / 6 to 2.4 / 6 ( 3 months ) to 1.8 / 6 ( 1 year ) . doses of rhuepo had to be reduced to avoid polycythemia . rhuepo stimulates erythropoiesis in pts with progressive crf and u for 1 year . the initial increase in hematocrit is due to the early peak of reticulocytes . at 3 months , rhuepo maintains the increased hematocrit by three mechanisms : 1 ) increased reticulocytosis , 2 ) a trend to increased bone marrow erythroid cellularity , and 3 ) lengthened rbc survival . at 1 year of rhuepo therapy , the trend to increased marrow cellularity persists , however , the maintenance of target hematocrit is via a lengthened rbc survival . despite progression of crf and u , rhuepo produced rbcs with longer survival than expected . rbc membranes may have been stabilized by rhuepo . 
recombinant human erythropoietin does not increase clotting in vascular accesses . the incidence of vascular access clotting was evaluated over 5.25 years . the first 32 months served as a control period . during the second period of 31 months , recombinant human erythropoietin ( epoetin ) was used for an average duration of 13 months ( range , 2-32 months ) in 79 patients . the overall incidence of vascular access clotting decreased from a monthly rate of 0.06 to 0.03 events per patient-month over the 5 year period . distribution of the number of events per patient did not differ between the two periods , with 55 % to 60 % of patients having no clotting episode . patients with recurrent clotting ( two or more events ) accounted for 68 % of episodes . during the second period , there were no differences in the incidence of vascular access clotting in epoetin treated patients vs untreated patients ( 0.38 events per patient-year vs. 0.46 events per patient-year , both slightly lower than in period 1 [ 0.52 events per patient-year ] ) . it is concluded that epoetin does not increase vascular access clotting . 
suppression of immunoglobulin and interleukin-6 production from peripheral blood mononuclear cells by dialysis membranes . the influence of dialysis membranes on immunoglobulin and interleukin-6 production was estimated in vitro . peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 11 patients undergoing hemodialysis were incubated for 7 days on cuprophan , hemophan , and polyacrylonitrile flat sheet membranes . igg , iga , igm , and il-6 were assayed in the supernatants with the aid of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) techniques . pokeweed mitogen-stimulated igg production declined significantly from 319 + / - 40 ng/ml on polystyrole to 162 + / - 26 ng/ml on cuprophan ; 135 + / - 25 ng/ml on hemophan ; and 109 + / - 20 ng/ml on polyacrylonitrile . a similar pattern was observed for iga and igm production . il-6 production was significantly reduced in the presence of cuprophan ( 151 + / - 45 pg/ml ) , hemophan ( 167 + / - 6 pg/ml ) , and polyacrylonitrile ( 108 + / - 33 pg/ml ) when compared with polystyrole ( 724 + / - 34 pg/ml ) . it was concluded that the long-term exposure of mononuclear cells to artificial surfaces during dialysis may contribute to the impaired humoral response observed in dialysis patients . this effect may be due to a decline in b cell stimulation by monocytes , a possibility suggested by the reduction in monocytic il-6 production . 
urinary tract dilatation in constipated children . abnormalities of the upper urinary tract were sought retrospectively in 180 children with constipation who had been investigated surgically over a 5-year period . of those in whom an intravenous urogram had been performed , the incidence of dilatation of the upper renal tract was high , but only 12 % of the patients with non-organic constipation had been so investigated . 
effect of hydrocele on testis and spermatogenesis . one hundred and twenty cases of big unilateral hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis have been studied to ascertain the effect on the structure and function of the testis , taking the normal side as control . there was no pressure effect from the hydrocele on the structure of the testis in 70 per cent , a flattening of testis in 22 per cent , and atrophy of testis in 8 per cent of cases . there was partial arrest of spermatogenesis in 10 per cent and total arrest of spermatogenesis in 8 per cent of cases . the remaining 82 per cent showed normal spermatogenesis . 
plasma therapy for severe hemolytic-uremic syndrome in children in atlantic canada . clinical reports have suggested that therapy with fresh frozen plasma is a useful adjunct in the management of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome ( hus ) . we reviewed the charts of 36 children with severe hus who were treated at the izaac walton killam hospital for children , halifax , over 10 years to assess the effectiveness of plasma therapy . all children who required specific supportive therapy for renal dysfunction , hemolysis or serious extrarenal complications were included . we compared the outcome of 18 children who received plasma therapy from 1982 to 1987 with that of 18 children who did not . the two groups were similar with regard to the severity of hus , the length of hospital stay , the duration of renal dysfunction and the incidence of disease-related complications , such as seizures , enterocolitis and cardiomyopathy . at discharge the prevalence of hypertension was higher in the plasma therapy group than in the control group . plasma therapy did not demonstrate any benefit that would outweigh the risk of fluid overload , hyperproteinemia and transmission of viral infection . 
gastric mucosal pge2 levels in gastric non-ulcer and ulcer patients with chronic renal failure or without renal diseases and in healthy subjects . pge2-like immunoactivity in mucosal specimens from gastric corpus and antrum was measured in individuals with chronic uremia or without renal diseases in absence or presence of gastric ulcerations and in healthy subjects . regardless the group of patients , compared to normal mucosa , a significant decrease in pge2-like immunoactivity ( 50-70 % ) was found in mucosa from atrophic , but not from superficial gastritis . whenever patients of the control group or patients with renal diseases suffered from ulcers , pge2-like immunoactivity , compared to nonulcer subjects , revealed a decrease of about 60-70 % in the nonulcerated mucosa . compared to nonulcerated mucosa , the tissue of the ulcer rim in all patients with gastric ulcer showed a relative increase in pge2-like immunoactivity , eg , pge2-like immunoactivity was twice as high in tissue from the ulcer rim . the output of pge2-like immunoactivity into the gastric juice of subjects without renal diseases was comparable to that found in patients with chronic uremia in both basal and pentagastrin-stimulated conditions . we therefore conclude that gastric mucosal formation is probably not influenced by chronic uremia . 
minimizing urinary incontinence in the nursing home . in the nursing home , urinary incontinence is a common problem that all too often is treated as an irremediable " problem of aging " by physicians , nurses , and patients . its etiologies are numerous , as are approaches to treatment in this setting . however , with a thoughtful approach to diagnosis and care , the primary care physician may be able to determine which patients , with which forms of urinary incontinence , will benefit from specific therapies . 
activity of type 1 erythrocyte complement receptors in uremia and after renal transplantation . the effect of uremia on the activity of the erythrocyte complement receptors type 1 ( cr1 ) , and the changes occurring after renal transplantation , were studied . the complement receptor activity was measured by immune adherence utilizing a rosette technique . patients with terminal kidney failure on the hemodialysis program exhibited significantly lower values of the erythrocyte cr1 activity in comparison with healthy controls . the circulating immune complexes did not affect erythrocyte cr1 activity . after successful renal transplantation , irrespective of the immunosuppressive program used , a significant increase in erythrocyte cr1 activity appeared , similar to control group values . however , the activity of erythrocyte cr1 , in the graft recipients under cyclosporin a treatment , was significantly higher than in the patients receiving azathioprine with prednisone . therefore , it is possible that cyclosporin a , transported in the erythrocytes , modifies the complement receptor function . 
comparison of two methods for the estimation of urea kinetics and introduction of a third simplified method . it has been claimed that computed urea kinetic ( uk ) modelling in hemodialysed patients , for the estimation of protein intake , leads to an overestimation of protein catabolic rate ( pcr ) . in the present study , three different methods of kinetic modelling for the determination of pcr and kt/v are compared in 24 patients . the first method was the direct quantification method ( ddq ) based on the collection of all urea eliminated from the body . the first computed method ( icmi ) was the urea kinetic modelling method as described by sargent . dialyzer clearances were measured directly and not estimated by theoretical extrapolation . the second computed method ( icmii ) is based on the indirect calculation of urea distribution volume ( vu ) , according to watson , and of dialyzer clearances from this vu and from pre - and post-dialysis urea concentrations . all three methods resulted in pcr 's that were not significantly different ( ddq : 1.03 + / - 0.19 ; icmi : 1.04 + / - 0.22 ; icmii : 1.08 + / - 0.25 mg/kg bw .24 hrs ; p greater than 0.05 ) . when the results were correlated , the following results were obtained : icmi vs icmii : r = 0.89 , p less than 0.001 ; icmi vs ddq : r = 0.68 , p less than 0.01 ; ddq vs icmii : r = 0.78 , p less than 0.001 . intermutual comparison of kt/v values resulted in virtually identical results , especially when comparing icmi and icmii , where the regression line equalled the identity line . in conclusion , all methods seem equally reliable in determining mean pcr and kt/v . our data , obtained with directly measured dialyzer urea clearances , do not confirm the earlier held opinion that computed modelling results in an overestimation of pcr . 
palmar keratoses in family members of individuals with bladder cancer . a total of 270 bladder cancer cases , 178 first-degree relatives and 127 spouses of the bladder cancer cases and 329 hospital controls were studied to evaluate the association between palmar keratoses , bladder cancer and environmental and genetic factors . crude prevalences of keratoses in the 4 groups were 67 , 54 , 42 and 23 % , respectively . logistic regression models showed that bladder cancer patients had a raised risk of having palmar keratoses relative to hospital controls ( odds ratio = 6.95 ; 95 % ci : 4.77-10 .12 ) whereas blood-relatives and spouses had significantly increased odds ratios only if the case in their family ( or some other blood-relative ) possessed keratoses . among several environmental and behaviour factors , only cigarette smoking was significantly associated with increased risk ( odds ratio = 2.32 ; 95 % ci : 1.63-3 .29 ) . the data suggest a genetic component may influence the occurrence of palmar keratoses , but some unknown environmental agent appears to be causing the association between spouses . 
anti-rna polymerase i antibodies in the urine of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . urine samples from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) ( n = 80 ) , patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) ( n = 21 ) , and healthy controls ( n = 36 ) were analyzed by radio-immunoassay ( ria ) for anti-rna polymerase i ( rpi ) antibodies . significant levels of anti-rpi antibodies were detected in the urine of 46 % of the patients with sle but in only 19 % of the patients with ra and in no sample from healthy individuals . the presence of anti-rpi antibodies in the urine was confirmed by demonstrating that igg purified from the urine of patients with sle was capable of inhibiting the transcriptional activity of rpi in vitro . if the quantity of anti-rpi antibodies excreted is related to disease activity , analysis of urine for these antibodies may be a useful alternative for the purpose of monitoring the progression of disease in individuals with sle because of the ease by which the sample can be collected . 
microscopic wegener 's disease : a particular form of wegener 's granulomatosis . we describe a case of wegener 's granulomatosis in which the disease was manifested with crescentic glomerulonephritis , upper airway ulcerations , and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia with consumptive coagulopathy . no granuloma was identified but antibodies to cytoplasmic components of neutrophils were strongly positive with a diffuse pattern . because microscopic vessels were predominantly involved ( capillaritis ) , and granuloma were absent , were refer to this particular form of the disease as " microscopic wegener 's disease . " . 
the percutaneous operative gastrostomy for gastric decompression in major urological surgery . when postoperative gastric decompression is necessary a percutaneous gastrostomy tube is an alternative to nasogastric intubation . the percutaneous insertion of a suprapubic bladder catheter is an easy procedure without notable complications that increases the comfort of the patient in the immediate postoperative period . we advocate its use in all major urological abdominal operations . 
ureteral triplication and ureterocele : report of 3 cases and review of the literature . we report 3 cases of ureterocele associated with ureteral triplication and review the literature . ureteral triplication was type i in 2 patients and type ii in 1 . diagnosis was established preoperatively in 2 cases and intraoperatively in 1 . all patients were initially treated by upper pole partial nephrectomy and aspiration of the ureterocele , leaving the ureteral stump open in the retroperitoneum . subsequent excision of the ureterocele and ureteral reimplantation for persistent ipsilateral vesicoureteral reflux and recurrent urinary tract infections were required in 2 cases . 
screening for prostatic carcinoma . routine testing for prostatic carcinoma by digital rectal examination , transrectal ultrasonography and prostate specific antigen determination has been proposed to reduce deaths by earlier diagnosis . the questionable reliability of results , cost of screening , and inability to establish a balance between the benefits of treatment and the adverse effects on the quality of life of the men screened make screening experimental until controlled studies prove its value . 
highly sensitized patients with delayed graft function : a management protocol . the postoperative management of the highly sensitized renal transplant recipient with delayed graft function on cyclosporine is complicated . allografts with delayed graft function are reported to have a 20 to 30 % poorer 1-year survival than allografts without delayed graft function . several factors may be implicated in this poorer 1-year survival . a decrease in or cessation of cyclosporine dosage frequently is used in an attempt to minimize nephrotoxicity . such under-immunosuppression can result in irreversible rejection . occasionally , a pessimistic view of the prognosis for the transplant may result in early abandonment of the allograft with discontinuation of immunosuppression and allograft nephrectomy . we report on 3 highly sensitized patients whose kidneys had delayed graft function and were deliberately maintained on high doses of cyclosporine throughout the period of delayed graft function . each graft achieved function ( 2 , 4 and 5 months ) after transplantation . the serum creatinine levels 20 , 28 and 38 months after transplantation were 2.7 , 2.0 and 1.0 mg . / dl. , respectively . we suggest that the maintenance of high cyclosporine levels throughout the delayed graft function period is useful in highly sensitized recipients and was an important factor in their successful outcome . a management protocol for such patients is proposed . 
substance abuse-related spontaneous bladder rupture : report of 2 cases and review of the literature . spontaneous rupture of the normal bladder associated with alcohol abuse is rare , with only 20 cases reported in the english literature to which we add 2 cases . heavy alcohol ingestion predisposes the bladder to rupture by the large volume of fluid intake , its diuretic effect and the mental obtusion it produces , clouding sensory cues to void . alpha-sympathomimetic drugs , such as cocaine and methamphetamine , increase the resistance at the urethral sphincter and exacerbate the effects of alcohol . cystography will be diagnostic , and prompt operative repair of intraperitoneal rupture is mandatory . complete evaluation of the bladder , including urodynamic study , is important to eliminate underlying bladder pathological conditions . substance abuse-related rupture demonstrates a typical constellation of clinical features that necessitate considering it a syndrome separate from other causes of spontaneous bladder rupture . 
bladder outlet obstruction due to pelvic lipoma : computerized tomography , magnetic resonance imaging and radiographic evaluation . we report an unusual case of long-standing bladder outlet obstruction due to pelvic lipoma in a 31-year-old white man . the mass was evaluated by plain film , computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging . the differential diagnosis of fat-containing extraperitoneal pelvic masses is discussed . 
adenocarcinoma of the urachus associated with elevated levels of ca 125 . adenocarcinoma of the urachus is a rare genitourinary tumor with a poor prognosis . the treatment of choice is en bloc surgical resection , although combination therapy with surgery and chemotherapy has been used with mixed results . we describe a 69-year-old woman with adenocarcinoma of the urachus and elevated serum levels of ca 125 tumor marker . she was treated with resection plus 5-fluorouracil , doxorubicin and mitomycin , alternating with platinum-based chemotherapy . the serum ca 125 level decreased precipitously after the operation and became normal after 2 months of chemotherapy . the patient remained free of disease 1 year postoperatively . serum ca 125 may be a useful tumor marker for urachal carcinoma and adjuvant chemotherapy may be effective in treating the disease . 
unresectable calcified bladder tumor : hemiacidrin irrigation as an adjunct to resection . radiographic calcification of urothelial malignancies is an uncommon finding . to our knowledge , calcification of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder preventing transurethral resection has not been reported previously . we report a case of an initially unresectable radiopaque bladder tumor and discuss the successful , conservative management with continuous bladder irrigation with hemiacidrin followed by complete transurethral resection . 
rectourethral fistula caused by kaposi 's sarcoma . a 35-year-old man with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex was evaluated for a persistent urethral discharge , pneumaturia and watery diarrhea . radiographic and endoscopic procedures established the diagnosis of a rectourethral fistula . perineal exploration and excision of the fistula revealed the pathological diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma . the differential diagnosis of an acquired rectourethral fistula and the significance of kaposi 's sarcoma are discussed . 
a lethal complication of papaverine-induced priapism . a large series of patients was treated for impotence with intracorporeal injections of papaverine and phentolamine with no major complications and no deaths reported . we report on a 45-year-old black man with advanced multiple sclerosis who died after such therapy . when the first self-administered injection of phentolamine and papaverine failed to produce an adequate erection the patient injected a second dose that resulted in priapism and death of massive pulmonary embolism . 
adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with xxy karyotype and chronic lymphocytic leukemia : report of a case . we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with 47xxy karyotype ( klinefelter 's syndrome ) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia . the increased incidence of malignancy in individuals with klinefelter 's syndrome has been well documented for certain neoplasms . adenocarcinoma of the prostate has not been reported previously in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome and a 47xxy karyotype . absence of mosaicism was confirmed by peripheral lymphocyte , skin fibroblast , bone marrow cell and spleen stroma fibroblast cultures . chronic lymphocyte leukemia , especially the t-cell cytotoxic/suppressive variant , may additionally add to an immunological deficit . since carcinoma of the prostate , klinefelter 's syndrome and chronic lymphocytic leukemia are common , the lack of a previous report is interesting . etiological aspects are discussed . 
exaggerated venous mural hypertrophy in association with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate . a 61-year-old black man presented with metastases to the right groin 5 years after 125iodine treatment for a well differentiated primary prostatic adenocarcinoma . medium sized veins within and immediately adjacent to the neoplasm showed marked mural thickening due to hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the inner circular and outer longitudinal muscles . there was no histological evidence of radiation effect in the stroma or in the tumor cells . we could find no report in the literature of such changes associated with metastatic carcinoma . 
end stage renal disease serum contains a specific renal cell growth factor . end stage renal disease ( esrd ) kidneys display abnormal growth characterized by a continuum of cystic disease , adenoma and carcinoma . this study evaluates the hypothesis that serum of patients with esrd contains increased amounts of a growth factor which specifically induces proliferation of renal cells . esrd sera compared to sera from normal controls induced a two to three-fold increase in the proliferative rate of renal cell carcinoma cell lines and normal kidney explants compared to cell lines from other sites . the increased proliferative activity of esrd sera on renal cells was paralleled by an increase in cytosolic free calcium . the growth factor activity was encoded by a polypeptide of between 15 and 30 kd . the activity of esrd sera on renal cells was not mimicked or inhibited by epidermal growth factor , basic fibroblast growth factor and platelet derived growth factor indicating that the renal cell specific growth factor activity in esrd is different from these factors . 
enhancing effect of partial cystectomy on rat urinary bladder carcinogenesis . the effects of 5 % and 50 % partial cystectomies on bladder tumorigenesis initiated with n-butyl-n - ( 4-hydroxybutyl ) nitrosamine ( bbn ) were investigated in wistar rats by examining the histological findings and cell proliferative activity . the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine ( brdurd ) into the dna synthesis phase was determined by an in-vitro labeling technique . after eight weeks of treatment with drinking water containing 0.05 % bbn , 5 % or 50 % partial cystectomy was performed at the end of week 16 , and the resected bladder was sutured with dexon or silk . there was no difference in the incidence of papillary or nodular ( pn ) hyperplasia between the control and partial cystectomy groups . however , the incidence of cancer in the group given partial cystectomy was much higher than that in the control . all the cancers in the control group were grade-1 superficial tumors , whereas grade-2 or invasive tumor was observed in six of 40 animals in the partial cystectomy group . the 31.0 % labeling index of cancer in the partial cystectomy group was greater than the 24.1 % in the control group . there was also a significant difference in the number of brdurd-labeled cells in pn hyperplasia between the control and partial cystectomy groups . these findings indicate that partial cystectomy enhances bbn-initiated bladder carcinogenesis and the increase in dna synthesis found in pn hyperplasia and cancer may be associated with the induction of bladder tumors . 
cytotoxic effects of high energy shock waves in different in vitro models : influence of the experimental set-up . high energy shock waves ( electromagnetically generated , siemens lithostar ) were studied for their effects in vitro on different ( tumor ) cell types . cells were exposed to the shock waves as a single cell suspension or as a cell pellet on the bottom of a test tube . in both cases , a dose dependent direct cytotoxicity , established by trypan blue dye exclusion , was observed after treatment with 1000 or 2000 shock waves . also , the antiproliferative capacity as determined by clonogenic potential ( double layer soft agar ) and growth rate ( plastic ) were affected in this way . however , comparing the results after treatment in suspension or pellet , a discrepancy was evident . the cell lines showed a different susceptibility in pellet vs. suspension . also the differential sensitivity of the cell types varied in these two treatment models . furthermore the outcome depended on the cell concentration ; direct cytotoxicity in a cell suspension was more pronounced at higher cell concentrations , while in a pellet this was increased by decreasing the number of cells . finally , no shock wave induced cytotoxicity could be seen after fixation of cells in gelatine or by placing the pellet on a bottom layer of gelatine . pressure measurements revealed no adequate explanation for this phenomenon . these results indicate that in vitro effects depend on the way cells are exposed to the shock waves and can be greatly influenced by changing the conditions of the microenvironment . therefore , precise descriptions of the experimental set-up and careful interpretations of their outcome are obligatory . 
the effect of chronic renal insufficiency on cyclosporine nephrotoxicity . despite cyclosporine 's efficacy in preventing rejection , its use has been hampered by nephrotoxicity . questions remain concerning its application in patients with decreased renal function . the purpose of this study was to 1 ) establish a reliable animal model with chronic renal insufficiency ( cri ) to study cyclosporine ( cya ) nephrotoxicity , and 2 ) compare the long-term ( 50 day ) severity of cya nephrotoxicity in cri versus normal animals . fischer 344 rats were divided into six groups ( 15 to 22 each ) . in three groups , cri was induced by a 5/6th nephrectomy ( three groups were sham operated ) . after three wks. , daily i.p. injections of olive oil , cya at five mg . / kg. , or cya at 30 mg . / kg . daily were administered . serum and urine were collected at 10 day intervals for the determination of biochemical indices of renal function . animals were sacrificed after 50 days of treatment and renal histology was evaluated by light and electron microscopy . chronic cya treatment was well tolerated by both intact and cri rats , suggesting that this is a reliable model for long-term cya toxicity studies . cya decreased renal function at day 50 in both cri and intact animals . cri of mild to moderate degree had little effect on the biochemical and histological indices of cya induced nephrotoxicity . cri does appear to potentiate the metabolic toxicity that occurs after chronic treatment with high dose cya . 
immunotherapy of murine bladder cancer by irradiated tumor vaccine . this investigation explored the efficacy of irradiated autologous mouse bladder tumor ( ir-mbt2 ) as an active specific immunotherapeutic agent and as adjuvant therapy with bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) against a subcutaneously transplanted murine bladder tumor . tumor incidence was significantly reduced in groups receiving bcg ( 27 % , p less than 0.005 ) or ir-mbt2 with bcg ( 53 % , p less than 0.025 ) , compared to control ( 93 % ) . survival was significantly improved in groups treated with bcg ( 100 % , p less than 0.005 ) , 10 ( 5 ) ir-mbt2 with bcg ( 53 % , p less than 0.01 ) , or 10 ( 7 ) ir-mbt2 with bcg ( 47 % , p less than 0.025 ) compared with control ( 13 % ) . surprisingly , ir-mbt2 consistently reduced the efficacy of bcg alone . ir-mbt2 alone ( 10 ( 7 ) ) appeared to enhance tumor growth . autologous irradiated bladder tumor vaccine , alone or in combination with bcg , displayed no immunotherapeutic advantage . the use of irradiated tumor cell vaccine for bladder cancer therapy may reduce the results achievable with bcg alone . 
the effects of basic fibroblast growth factor and suramin on cell motility and growth of rat prostate cancer cells . suramin , a new type of cancer chemotherapeutic agent with growth factor antagonist properties , has been reported to affect growth of prostate cancer metastatic lesions . partin et al . have previously reported that prostate cancer cell motility was essential for tumor cell metastasis . we have studied the effects of suramin on cell motility and cell growth in a prostate cancer cell model . we have demonstrated that suramin has differential effects on rat prostate cancer cells in vitro . the effects of suramin on cell growth were biphasic . at low concentrations of 0.01 mm and 0.1 mm , suramin stimulated growth while it was inhibitory at a higher concentration of 1.0 mm , and 10 mm suramin resulted in cell death . cell motility was inhibited at a suramin concentration above 0.1 mm . the inhibition of cell motility by suramin may be through the blockage of growth factor effects . reducing serum growth factor concentration reduced cell motility and the motility was restored by the addition of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bfgf ) to the media . motility which had been restored by bfgf could then be blocked by the presence of suramin . the inhibition of cell motility by suramin is reversible on washout of the drug . suramin inhibits cell motility in both the human prostate cancer cells ( lncap ) and the rat ( mll ) . 
surgical management and prognosis of renal cell carcinoma invading the vena cava . a total of 44 patients with renal cell carcinoma and vena caval tumor thrombus underwent surgical resection . of these patients 27 had primary tumor confined within gerota 's fascia , negative lymph nodes and no distant metastases ( stage t3cn0m0 ) . patients who underwent extraction of a mobile tumor thrombus from the vena cava had a 69 % 5-year survival rate ( median 9.9 years ) but patients with tumor thrombus directly invading the vena cava had a 26 % 5-year survival rate ( median 1.2 years ) , which improved to 57 % ( median 5.3 years ) if the involved vena caval side wall was resected successfully . of these patients 17 had renal cell carcinoma with vena caval thrombus as well as extrafascial extension , regional lymphadenopathy or distant metastases , and the 5-year survival rate was less than 18 % in all groups ( median survival less than 0.9 years ) . prognosis was determined by the pathological stage of the renal cell carcinoma and by the presence or absence of vena caval side wall invasion but not by the level of tumor thrombus extension . patients with incomplete resection of localized renal cell carcinoma with tumor thrombus do not survive any longer than those with extensive cancer , positive lymph nodes or distant metastases . however , when partial venacavectomy establishes negative surgical margins then survival markedly improves . 
endourological experience with cystine calculi and a treatment algorithm . between may 1984 and january 1988 , 18 patients ( 31 pyeloureteral units ) with documented symptomatic cystine stones were treated . stone size ranged from 5 to 56 mm . in largest diameter , with an average of 21 mm . all pyeloureteral units were treated initially by endourological methods , including ureteroscopy in 10 , percutaneous ultrasonic lithotripsy in 9 , extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) in 10 and chemolysis in 2 . of the patients 10 required a combination of these technologies and 2 required an open operation . of the 31 units 23 were free of stones when the patient was discharged from the hospital . of 8 patients with retained stones only 3 had fragments greater than 3 mm . in diameter . based on this experience an algorithm was developed for the urological management of cystine stones . ureteral calculi may be removed by ureteroscopic techniques or manipulated into the renal pelvis and managed as renal stones . cystine renal calculi of less than 1.5 cm . may be treated with eswl monotherapy . stones of 1.5 to 3 cm . may be treated with eswl and dissolution , or percutaneous ultrasonic lithotripsy plus dissolution . staghorn calculi may be treated by percutaneous ultrasonic lithotripsy plus eswl and/or dissolution for retained fragments . 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy in combination with transurethral surgery for management of large bladder calculi and moderate outlet obstruction . in 5 men evaluated for symptoms of obstructive voiding flexible cystoscopy revealed large or multiple bladder calculi along with small to moderate prostatic enlargement . all patients had successful localization and fragmentation of calculi with the dornier hm3 lithotriptor . of these patients 4 underwent transurethral resection or incision of the prostate under the same epidural anesthesia for moderate prostatic obstruction without complication and 1 subsequently required suprapubic prostatectomy of a gland with a large middle lobe that made a transurethral operation difficult . extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy should be considered for the primary management of large or hard bladder calculi and it is of particular value in combination with a transurethral operation for patients with small to moderate prostatic obstruction . 
tamm-horsfall autoantibodies in interstitial cystitis . interstitial cystitis presents a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge . although many etiologies , including autoimmunity , have been proposed its pathogenesis remains obscure . tamm-horsfall protein has been identified in the superficial urothelium of patients with interstitial cystitis demonstrating abnormal urothelial permeability . eight patients with a clinical diagnosis of interstitial cystitis underwent cystoscopy and bladder biopsy . characteristic cystoscopic findings were present , and each patient had chronic inflammation and mast cells by histopathological analysis . preoperative anti-tamm-horsfall protein serum antibody ( igg ) titers were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( range 500 to 8,000 , mean 2,750 ) . a control group of 8 patients with a negative urological history also had titers of 0 to 500 ( p = 0.02 ) . the humoral response to tamm-horsfall protein in these patients suggests a role for tamm-horsfall protein in interstitial cystitis . measurement of serum tamm-horsfall protein antibody may prove to be useful as a noninvasive diagnostic test in patients with this disease . 
progression of stage t1 bladder tumors after intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin [ published erratum appears in j urol 1991 apr ; 145 ( 4 ) :840 ] of 221 patients with superficial bladder tumors ( stages ta , tis and t1 ) treated by transurethral resection and an initial 6-week course of intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) 195 were evaluated after 3 months for local response . of these patients 17 ( 8.7 % ) had a stage t1 tumor , of whom 14 ( 82 % ) subsequently had muscle invasion ( 7 ) , uncontrolled local disease ( 6 ) or metastasis ( 1 ) . the median interval to progression was 8.4 months , which was significantly ( p = 0.0001 ) less than among the other 178 patients with a nonstage t1 lesion or no tumor found at 3 months , of whom 44 ( 25 % ) had progression ( median more than 5 years ) . these data suggest that patients with stage t1 tumor 3 months after bcg therapy require additional therapy other than simple tumor resection and meticulous followup . 
results of contemporary radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer : a clinicopathological study with an emphasis on the inadequacy of the tumor , nodes and metastases classification . we reviewed 261 patients who underwent a radical operation at a single institution as definitive treatment of invasive bladder cancer to evaluate the survival and accuracy of the tumor , nodes and metastasis system in characterizing the prognosis . between january 1979 and june 1987 the 261 evaluable patients underwent 1-stage radical cystectomy with pelvic node dissection and urinary diversion . no chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy was given before or after the operation . the postoperative mortality rate was 1.8 % . the over-all staging error between clinical and pathological stages was as high as 44 % . the over-all actuarial 5-year survival rate was 54.5 % . the 5-year survival rates were 75 % for stage pt1 , 63 % for stage pt2 , 31 % for stage pt3 and 21 % for stage pt4 disease . a significant difference in the survival ( p less than 0.002 ) was observed in stage pt3 by dividing tumors confined within the bladder wall ( pt3a , 50 % ) from those extending throughout the bladder wall ( pt3b , 15 % ) . a careful evaluation of transitional cell involvement of the prostate in stage pt4a cancer led to the identification of 2 different patterns : 1 ) contiguous when a bladder tumor extended directly into the prostate through the bladder wall and 2 ) noncontiguous when a bladder tumor and a transitional cell carcinoma of the prostate were found simultaneously . these patterns had completely different ( p less than 0.05 ) survival rates ( 6 versus 37 % ) . the patients with high grade tumors had a worse prognosis in comparison with those with grades 1 and 2 tumors ( 41 versus 56 % , p less than 0.005 ) . the over-all 5-year survival of patients with positive nodes was 4 % in comparison with 60 % of those without nodal involvement ( p less than 0.001 ) . despite current optimal surgical treatment , nearly 50 % of all patients with invasive bladder cancer continue to die . the need for a modification of the current tumor , nodes and metastasis tumor classification to provide the clinician a more reliable staging system for planning treatment modalities is indeed mandatory . 
total bladder replacement using detubularized sigmoid colon : technique and results . we performed total bladder replacement with a detubularized segment of sigmoid colon in patients after cystoprostatectomy . the surgical technique and long-term results in 27 patients are reported . this neobladder configuration compared favorably with other neobladder types regarding ease of construction . the surgical complications were acceptable . initial reservoir function was good but improved further with time . after 1 year the capacity averaged 600 cc , pressures during filling and at capacity were low ( average 12 and 16 cm . water ) and emptying was satisfactory ( residual urine 4 to 80 cc ) . all patients were continent during the day and 67 % were continent at night without excessive voiding habits . nighttime incontinence was further resolved in 2 patients by using the ams 800 artificial sphincter around the bulbous urethra . the detubularized sigmoid is an excellent neobladder configuration after cystoprostatectomy . 
intracavernous injection of prostaglandin e1 in combination with papaverine : enhanced effectiveness in comparison with papaverine plus phentolamine and prostaglandin e1 alone . we compared the erectile response to intracavernous injection of a combination of papaverine and prostaglandin e1 with that of a combination of papaverine and phentolamine ( 49 patients ) , and prostaglandin e1 alone ( 38 ) . the degree of erection achieved was significantly better with papaverine plus prostaglandin e1 than with papaverine plus phentolamine and the duration of erection was less , although the incidence of prolonged erections ( greater than 5 hours ) was similar with both combinations . papaverine with prostaglandin e1 likewise resulted in a significantly better degree of erection than prostaglandin e1 alone ( prolonged erections occurred only after the drug combination ) . all erections subsided spontaneously and none required medical intervention throughout the study . pain was noted only after injection of prostaglandin e1 . the incidence was clearly lower ( 7 of 38 versus 13 of 38 ) after the injection of only 5 micrograms . prostaglandin e1 in combination with papaverine ( although the difference is not statistically significant ) . subjectively , the side effects caused by the drug combination were described as much less dramatic by the patients than after prostaglandin e1 alone . the combination of papaverine and prostaglandin e1 shows a clearly synergistic effect and might suitably replace papaverine plus phentolamine or prostaglandin e1 alone in patients who do not respond well or suffer side effects after high single doses . 
the fate of residual fragments after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy monotherapy of infection stones . we reviewed 53 patients with infection stones treated by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl * ) monotherapy to determine the long-term rate free of stones and the stone recurrence rate as correlated with the pre-treatment stone burden and the radiological presence of sand or fragments after the procedure . long-term followup ( mean 26.6 months ) was available on 33 patients representing 38 kidneys . although only 3 kidneys were free of stones immediately after eswl , 20 were without stones at 3 months and 18 ( 47 % ) were stone-free at followup . of 9 kidneys with fragments of more than 5 mm . after the final treatment 7 ( 78 % ) had residual fragments at 3 months and experienced stone progression . of 9 kidneys with sand remaining 6 ( 66 % ) and all 3 kidneys that appeared to be free of stones after eswl were without stones at followup . the 3-month plain film of the kidneys , ureters and bladder was a reliable indicator of eventual outcome . of 20 kidneys that were free of stones at 3 months 16 remained without stones . of 18 kidneys with residual stone particles at 3 months 14 showed disease progression , 2 had stable disease and 2 passed residual sand . only 1 of 17 patients who were free of stones or had stable stone disease had a positive urine culture at followup . patients with infection stone fragments 3 months after eswl monotherapy have a high rate of stone progression ( 78 % ) and should undergo further treatment . eswl monotherapy of infection stones requires close patient followup to assure that all residual fragments have passed and urine remains sterile . 
pathophysiology of prolonged penile erection associated with trazodone use . treatment with the antidepressant trazodone has been associated with the occurrence of prolonged penile erection and priapism . to evaluate the effect of trazodone on erection we monitored the periodic physiological sleep-related erections in 6 healthy volunteers in a double-blind crossover study comparing the effect of trazodone , trimipramine ( a tricyclic antidepressant ) and placebo . in addition , to determine the effects of trazodone on the neurovascular control of penile smooth muscle we performed in vitro studies on corpus cavernosum tissue obtained from patients undergoing penile prosthesis implantation . trazodone significantly increased the total interval of nocturnal erectile activity , while trimipramine had no effect . during the high dose treatment ( nights 4 and 5 ) the average duration of erectile activity per night with placebo was 158 + / - 41 minutes ( mean + / - standard deviation ) for night 4 and 177 + / - 21 minutes for night 5 . during trazodone treatment the erectile activity per night was significantly prolonged to 285 + / - 115 minutes during night 4 and 232 + / - 86 during night 5 ( p less than 0.01 ) . analysis of the erectile activity in relation to the rapid eye movement sleep period during which erectile activity usually occurs revealed that the detumescence phase of erection , under sympathetic control , was significantly prolonged an average of 2.4 times by trazodone compared to placebo ( p less than 0.05 ) . in vitro , trazodone at concentrations comparable to those reached in plasma significantly impaired corporeal smooth muscle contractions elicited by electrical stimulation of adrenergic nerves and antagonized contractions induced by exogenous norepinephrine . we conclude that trazodone can enhance penile erection in man and propose a mechanism related to the alpha-adrenoceptor blocking properties of trazodone by interference with the sympathetic control of penile detumescence . 
