augmentation mentoplasty using mersilene mesh . many different materials are available for augmentation mentoplasty . however , the optimal implant material for chin implantation has yet to be found . during the past several years , a number of experienced surgeons have turned to the use of mersilene mesh . mersilene mesh is a non-absorbable dacron polyester fiber that can be conformed easily into layers to achieve tailored dimensions and shape . at the mccollough plastic surgery clinic pa , birmingham , ala , 277 patients over a 10-year period underwent chin augmentation with mersilene mesh implants . the material provides excellent tensile strength , durability , and surgical adaptability . the overall complication rate was 3.2 % ( nine patients ) ; infection rate , 2.5 % ( seven patients ) ; and removal secondary to infection , 1.7 % ( five patients ) . based on this 10-year experience , mersilene mesh remains our material of choice for chin augmentation . 
multiple intracranial mucoceles associated with phaeohyphomycosis of the paranasal sinuses . the purpose of this article is to alert clinicians to a new pathogenic fungus of the paranasal sinuses called exserohilum rostratum . exserohilum species are one of the etiologic agents of phaeohyphomycosis , a constellation of entities caused by dematiaceous fungi . this class of fungal sinus infection has emerged only in the past decade ; it occurs primarily in immunocompetent individuals and produces a tenacious , progressive pansinusitis . to our knowledge , this study describes the first case of multiple intracranial mucoceles secondary to e rostratum . the diagnostic workup includes computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by direct microscopic examination of tissue biopsy specimens . a craniotomy followed by a bilateral external ethmoidectomy was necessary for complete extirpation of the infected mucoceles . aggressive surgical management of this mycotic infection is described . 
replacement of an aortic valve cusp after neonatal endocarditis . septic arthritis developed in a neonate after an infection of her hand . despite medical and surgical treatment endocarditis of her aortic valve developed and the resultant regurgitation required emergency surgery . at operation a new valve cusp was fashioned from preserved calf pericardium . nine years later she was well and had full exercise tolerance with minimal aortic regurgitation . 
the value of indium 111 leukocyte scanning in the evaluation of painful or infected total knee arthroplasties . evaluation of painful total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) for infection can be difficult . indium 111 ( 111in ) leukocyte bone scanning provides a minimally invasive technique for evaluation of possible infection . thirty-eight patients with a painful tka who had surgical exploration after 111in leukocyte scanning were reviewed . the scan had an accuracy of 84 % , a sensitivity of 83 % , and a specificity of 85 % . the 111in leukocyte scans must be interpreted in conjunction with the clinical evaluation of the patient because they are less accurate for study of tkas than of total hip arthroplasties . 
febrile infants less than eight weeks old . predictors of infection . febrile infants less than eight weeks old frequently are admitted and receive parenteral antibiotics for treatment of possible sepsis . the authors assess 52 infants less than eight weeks old with a rectal temperature of 38.1 degrees c or higher as having either a readily identifiable focus of infection by physical examination , appearing " toxic " without a focus , or appearing well . the authors screened patients by using white blood cell ( wbc ) counts , erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) , c-reactive protein ( crp ) , and chest radiographs in addition to blood , cerebrospinal fluid and urine cultures . the authors found a 9.6 % incidence of bacteria in the 52 infants evaluated , with a 4.3 % incidence in those febrile infants who appeared well . five patients had positive blood cultures with group b b hemolytic streptococcus ( four patients ) , and viridans streptococcus ( one patient ) . a clinical assessment of toxicity and a total band count greater than or equal to 0.5 x 10 ( 3 ) cells/ul together were sensitive indicators of bacteremia , as were toxicity and a positive crp . a " toxic " appearance , a wbc count greater than or equal to 15 x 10 ( 3 ) cells/ul and an esr greater than 30 were specific indicators of bacteria . based on these data , identification of bacteremia in febrile infants may be possible with clinical assessment and screening laboratory tests . because of the relatively small sampling size of this study , the authors feel that evaluation of a larger number of patients is warranted to evaluate these sensitivities in a more diffuse patient population . 
superficial cultures in neonatal sepsis evaluations . impact on antibiotic decision making . the authors performed a retrospective analysis of neonatal superficial cultures and their effect on antimicrobial decision making during a nine-month period at nashville general hospital . they obtained and reviewed charts of infants ( n = 66 ) having paired superficial ( skin and/or gastric aspirate ) and deep ( blood and cerebrospinal fluid ) cultures for the evaluation of early-onset sepsis . superficial cultures were positive for pathogens ( any streptococcus or enteric gram-negative ) in 15 % ( 10/66 ) of cases . antimicrobial decision making was affected in only one of these cases , and in a seemingly inappropriate manner . in summary , there was no evidence or review that superficial cultures used in sepsis evaluation influenced physician antimicrobial decision making ; in one case they may have led to unnecessary antibiotic exposure . 
sepsis-related cardiogenic shock . to further define cardiovascular abnormalities in patients with septic shock , serial conventional hemodynamic measurements combined with two-dimensional echocardiographic studies were performed at the bedside in 21 patients admitted for an acute episode of sepsis-related circulatory failure . measurements obtained during the first hours of hospitalization revealed a group of six patients ( group 1 ) with markedly depressed left ventricular function , as evidenced by a low cardiac index ( ci ) ( 2.2 + / - 0.8 l/min . m2 ) , reduced left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) ( 21 + / - 8 % ) , and an increased arterial-venous oxygen content difference . right ventricular systolic function was also severely depressed . these patients were characterized as having sepsis-related cardiogenic shock secondary to profound myocardial depression , which was reversible within 24 to 48 h with inotropic support . the 15 remaining patients ( group 2 ) exhibited an initially increased ci ( 4.9 + / - 1.8 l/min . m2 ) , with a low systemic vascular resistance . in group 2 , lvef remained within the normal range despite abnormally low peripheral vascular resistance . this finding would suggest the presence of slight to moderate depression of left ventricular systolic function . all patients in this series had a normal left ventricular end-diastolic volume , whether profound myocardial depression was present or not . 
catheter-related sepsis : prospective , randomized study of three methods of long-term catheter maintenance . we studied the infectious risk of different methods of managing vascular catheters during long-term use . consecutive surgical icu patients requiring triple lumen catheters , pulmonary artery catheters , or arterial catheters for greater than 7 days were prospectively randomized to one of three management groups : a ) percutaneous ( perc ) puncture with every 7-day catheter change at a new site , b ) no weekly change ( nwc ) with a new site when changed , or c ) guidewire exchange ( gwx ) with every 7-day catheter change at the same site . in all groups , a catheter change was mandatory for a positive blood culture , skin site infection , or sepsis without a likely source . cultures were obtained when clinically indicated and at the time of every catheter change . catheter-related sepsis ( crs ) was defined as a positive blood culture and catheter culture with the same organism . a total of 112 patients met evaluation criteria . there were no intergroup differences in age , primary diagnosis , severity of injury or illness , number of study days , number of protocol violations , route of catheterization , number of catheters present/patient day , catheter sepsis rate , or bacteremia rate . the nwc group demonstrated an increased number of days/catheter , fewer catheter/subcutaneous tract segment cultures/patient , and a reduced incidence of catheter tip colonization . these results occurred in a setting where the number of crs episodes/patient was 0.17 for gwx , 0.22 for perc , and 0.16 for nwc . we conclude that there is no difference in infectious risk between these three methods of long-term catheter management . the method with the least complications and expense should be used . 
effect of blood transfusion on oxygen consumption in pediatric septic shock . treatment plans for pediatric septic shock advocate increasing oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) . recent studies in septic shock indicate that improving oxygen delivery ( do2 ) by increasing blood flow will increase vo2 . we prospectively examined the effect on vo2 of improving do2 by increasing oxygen content ( co2 ) with blood transfusion in eight hemodynamically stable septic shock patients . transfusion consisted of 8 to 10 ml/kg of packed rbc over 1 to 2 h. hemodynamic and oxygen transport measurements were obtained before and after blood transfusion . transfusion significantly ( p less than .05 ) increased hgb and hct from 10.2 + / - 0.8 g/dl and 30 + / - 2 % to 13.2 + / - 1.4 g/dl and 39 + / - 4 % , respectively ( mean + / - sd ) . do2 significantly ( p less than .05 ) increased after transfusion ( 599 + / - 65 to 818 + / - 189 ml/min . m2 ) , but vo2 did not change ( 166 + / - 68 to 176 + / - 74 ml/min . m2 ; ns ) . in pediatric septic shock patients , increasing co2 by blood transfusion may not increase vo2 . 
resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation . a 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ards . subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ards . 
effects of epinephrine on hemodynamics and oxygen metabolism in dopamine-resistant septic shock . the hemodynamic effects of epinephrine were prospectively studied in 13 patients with septic shock who remained hypotensive after both fluid loading and dopamine . hemodynamic measurements were performed before and one hour after the start of epinephrine infusion . systolic , diastolic , and mean arterial pressure increased in all patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . cardiac index and systemic vascular resistance increased by 34 and 32 percent , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) , but heart rate and pulmonary vascular resistance remained unchanged . there was a concomitant increase in oxygen delivery ( p less than 0.01 ) and oxygen consumption ( p less than 0.05 ) , the magnitude of the latter being related to baseline lactacidemia ( p less than 0.01 ) . in view of the generally recognized physiologic goals of septic shock management , we conclude that epinephrine could be an appropriate alternative where fluid loading and dopamine have failed . 
short-term chemoprophylaxis with ceftizoxime vs. five-day aminoglycoside with metronidazole in ' contaminated ' lower gastrointestinal surgery . in a prospective , open , randomized controlled trial , 173 patients requiring surgery for potentially " contaminated " lower gastrointestinal surgery were allocated to receive either two doses of ceftizoxime ( 2 gm ) with one dose of metronidazole ( 1.5 gm ) or gentamicin 3 mg/kg/day for five days with one dose of metronidazole ( 1.5 gm ) . eighty-nine patients received ceftizoxime and 84 patients received gentamicin . the groups were comparable with respect to diagnosis , procedure , type of anastomosis , and wound closure . the incidence of withdrawal due to failure to respond to the study drug ( 11.5 percent ) was equivalent in the two groups . there was no difference in the overall incidence of postsurgical infection between the ceftizoxime and metronidazole group ( 22.2 percent ) and the gentamicin and metronidazole group ( 25.7 percent ) . the incidence of wound infection ( ceftizoxime and metronidazole , 6.9 percent ; gentamicin and metronidazole , 10 percent ) and deep sepsis ( ceftizoxime and metronidazole , 15.3 percent ; gentamicin and metronidazole , 15.7 percent ) was similar . 
gastrointestinal tuberculosis . report of four cases . gastrointestinal tuberculosis is a rare disease in the united states . correct identification is often delayed because it is not considered early on in the differential diagnosis . four patients with gastrointestinal tuberculosis and the symptoms , diagnosis , complications , and treatment of the disease are discussed . gastrointestinal tuberculosis should be considered in asian immigrant patients who present with symptoms and signs of inflammatory bowel disease . 
a small animal model of human helicobacter pylori active chronic gastritis . isolation of a spiral-shaped bacterium closely related to helicobacter pylori from the cat stomach made it possible to investigate new small animal models of gastric infection . pure cultures of this bacterium , provisionally named " helicobacter felis , " were fed to germ-free mice . the organism colonized the stomach in large numbers in mucus and deep in the gastric pits and showed the same gastric trophism found with h. pylori . significant histopathology was seen in all h. felis-infected mice . at 2 weeks postinfection , an acute inflammatory response was seen composed primarily of eosinophils and neutrophils . at 3 weeks , the polymorphonuclear response was more pronounced with large numbers of neutrophils in some areas forming small microabscesses . lymphocytes also increased in number . by 8 weeks , several relatively large lymphoid nodules were present in the submucosa . multiple small microabscesses were still present in the pyloric mucosa . this is the first animal model of bacterial gastritis to be described that shows progression from acute inflammation to persistent acute on chronic inflammation ( active chronic ) as is seen in human infection with h. pylori . 
prevention of necrotizing enterocolitis in the rat with prenatal cortisone . cortisone acetate is known to accelerate maturation of the immature intestine . the effect of prenatal administration of cortisone acetate on the morbidity and mortality of necrotizing enterocolitis was examined in a rat pup model . pregnant rats were administered cortisone acetate , 20 mg/100 g of body weight , or normal saline by daily ip injection from day 18-21 of gestation . rat pups were taken from the mothers before suckling was initiated , fed a simulated rat milk formula , and subjected to daily ischemic insults to produce an animal model of necrotizing enterocolitis . both morbidity and the mortality rates were significantly improved with prenatal cortisone treatment . maturation of the intestinal mucosal barrier was accelerated with the cortisone treatment as measured by decreased serum concentrations of a fed antigen , ovalbumin . aerobic bacterial colonization of the small intestine and translocation of bacteria to the liver were decreased in the pups pretreated with steroids . these changes observed in a rat model of necrotizing enterocolitis may explain the decreased incidence of necrotizing enterocolitis in human infants born to mothers who received corticosteroids late in gestation . 
reduction of gastric ulcer recurrence after suppression of helicobacter pylori by cefixime . the effect on the recurrence of gastric ulcers after suppression of helicobacter pylori by combined treatment with cimetidine and the antimicrobial drug cefixime was investigated . twenty one of 43 patients with endoscopically proved gastric ulcer and h pylori infection were randomly assigned to receive cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks ; the remaining 22 patients received cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks plus cefixime 100 mg daily for the last two weeks . after treatment , 88 % of 17 patients on cimetidine only remained h pylori positive , whereas combined administration of cimetidine and cefixime had suppressed h pylori in 78 % of 18 patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . seventeen patients in the former group whose ulcers healed but who remained h pylori positive and 18 patients in the latter group whose ulcers healed and who were no longer infected with h pylori continued to be followed after treatment . these patients underwent endoscopy to detect ulcer recurrence if symptomatic , or at 12 and 24 weeks if asymptomatic . at 12 weeks , recurrence was observed in seven of 15 ( 47 % ) patients in whom h pylori persisted , but in only one of 14 ( 7 % ) patients in whom h pylori had been suppressed ( p less than 0.05 ) . at 24 weeks , however , recurrence rates were similar between the two groups . these findings indicate that h pylori infection may be closely related to early ulcer recurrence . 
adjuvant antibiotic therapy in duodenal ulcers treated with colloidal bismuth subcitrate . persistence of helicobacter pylori after duodenal ulcer healing is associated with high rates of ulcer relapse . we compared colloidal bismuth subcitrate alone with cbs combined with one of four antibiotic regimens in the treatment of duodenal ulcers . endoscopy and antral biopsies were performed before treatment and four weeks afterwards . biopsy specimens were examined for histological evidence of gastritis and by gram stain and culture for h pylori infection . altogether 141 patients were allocated to one of five treatment groups . giving cbs and metronidazole ( 400 mg tid for 7 days ) with and without amoxycillin ( 500 mg tid ) achieved higher clearance rates of h pylori than treatment with cbs alone ( p less than 0.01 ) . these two combinations also achieved higher rates of antral gastritis healing than cbs alone ( p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05 respectively ) . susceptibility to metronidazole was tested in 29 isolates before and in seven isolates after treatment with metronidazole by disc diffusion test and minimum inhibitory concentration assay . twenty seven ( 93 % ) of the isolates were sensitive before treatment while six of seven ( 86 % ) were resistant afterwards . four of the six resistant strains had acquired resistance during treatment and one of these had acquired metronidazole resistance despite concomitant treatment with amoxycillin , to which it remained sensitive . cbs with adjuvant metronidazole at a dose of 400 mg tid for seven days significantly improves the eradication of h pylori compared with cbs alone . acquired metronidazole resistance , however , seems to be an important cause of failure to eradicate h pylori . 
monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites : a variant of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is diagnosed when ( a ) the ascitic fluid culture is positive , ( b ) the ascitic fluid neutrophil count is greater than or equal to 250 cells/mm3 and ( c ) there is no evident intraabdominal surgically treatable source for infection . few details are available regarding the variant of ascitic fluid infection in which the culture grows bacteria ( pure growth of a single type of organism ) , but the neutrophil count is less than 250 cells/mm3 . in this prospective study of 138 episodes of culture-positive spontaneously infected ascites detected in 105 patients , 44 ( 31.9 % ) were episodes of " monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites " compared with 94 ( 68.1 % ) episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . seventeen patients had both types of infection . the infection-related mortality and hospitalization mortality were similar between the two groups . patients with bacterascites appeared to have less severe liver disease . in 62 % of bacterascites episodes in which a second paracentesis was performed before any treatment the fluid spontaneously became sterile without development of ascitic fluid neutrocytosis . thirty-eight percent of patients with bacterascites ( who underwent a second paracentesis before treatment was started ) progressed to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis -- sometimes within a few hours . the concentration of the chemoattractant c5a was not decreased in the ascitic fluid of the bacterascites patients ; this excludes ascitic fluid c5a deficiency as the explanation of the lack of neutrocytosis . monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites is a common variant of ascitic fluid infection that may resolve without treatment or may progress to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . 
norfloxacin prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence in cirrhosis : results of a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . eighty cirrhotic patients who had recovered from an episode of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis were included in a multicenter , double-blind trial aimed at comparing long-term norfloxacin administration ( 400 mg/day ; 40 patients ) vs. placebo ( 40 patients ) in the prevention of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence . at entry , both groups were similar with respect to clinical and laboratory data , ascitic fluid protein and polymorphonuclear concentrations , number of previous episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and causative organisms of the index spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . norfloxacin administration produced a selective intestinal decontamination ( elimination of aerobic gram-negative bacilli from the fecal flora without significant changes in other microorganisms ) throughout the study in six patients in whom the effect of norfloxacin on the fecal flora was periodically assessed . fourteen patients from the placebo group ( 35 % ) and five from the norfloxacin group ( 12 % ) developed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence during follow-up ( chi 2 = 5.97 ; p = 0.014 ) ( mean follow-up period = 6.4 + / - 0.6 mo ; range = 1 to 19 mo ) . ten of the 14 spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the placebo group and only one of the five spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the norfloxacin group were caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli ( chi 2 = 8.87 ; p = 0.0029 ) . the overall probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence at 1 yr of follow-up was 20 % in the norfloxacin group and 68 % in the placebo group ( p = 0.0063 ) and the probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli at 1 yr of follow-up was 3 % and 60 % , respectively ( p = 0.0013 ) . 
review of hepatic imaging and a problem-oriented approach to liver masses . we believe that imaging of the liver is complicated . the sporadic appearance of incidental benign lesions and variability in scanning techniques , equipment and artifacts add difficulties to the evaluation of liver masses . therefore we emphasize the need to define the problem for which the patient is being imaged . this information helps in choosing the procedure of choice and the technique needed to give the most expedient , accurate answer . this will also help apply the lowest risk and most cost-efficient care . imaging algorithms vary depending on the suspected pathological conditions . dynamic bolus-enhanced ct is the modality of choice in most situations . tc99m sulfur-colloid liver-spleen scans are helpful in patients with suspected fnh , and tc99m-tagged-rbc-spect scans are recommended to confirm cavernous hemangiomas . cysts are easily confirmed by us . although mri is competitive with ct , it has not become a primary modality because of cost , availability , patient selection and variability of scanner capabilities among the many manufacturers and models . it is hard to predict what future development of imaging techniques will bring . many feel that significant advances have plateaued . time and money will more likely be concentrated on improving image resolution , speed of scanning and ability to transfer this information to sites outside of the radiology department . in addition to faster scanning , we expect to soon have available safe intravenous and enteric contrast agents for mri . certainly this will lead to a new round of investigations to compare mri with ct scanning . 
mechanical cardiopulmonary support for refractory cardiogenic shock . from february 1982 to february 1990 , 38 patients ( 30 male patients and 8 female patients ) ranging in age from 10 to 78 years ( mean 49.4 years ) have been supported with arteriovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) at st. louis university medical center as a resuscitative system for cardiac arrest or cardiogenic shock . all patients were unresponsive to conventional resuscitative measures including an intraaortic balloon pump in 25 patients . patients were resuscitated in the intensive care unit , cardiac catheterization laboratory , or the emergency department . diagnosis varied from acute myocardial infarctions ( 12 patients ) , ischemic disease ( 15 patients ) , end-stage cardiomyopathy ( 7 patients ) , congenital heart disease ( 3 patients ) , or postoperative cardiac transplant graft rejection ( 1 patient ) . three patients could not be resuscitated with ecmo because of low flow , but the remaining 35 ( 92 % ) achieved hemodynamic stability with ecmo flows greater than 2 l/min/m2 . duration of support ranged from 0.5 to 130 hours ( mean 28 hours ) . twenty-four patients were successfully weaned from ecmo support after coronary artery bypass ( five patients ) , cardiac transplantation ( two patients ) , or ventricular assist device insertion ( eight patients ) , or with inotropic support ( nine patients ) . of the 14 patients not weaned , three were inadequately resuscitated , two had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty while receiving ecmo , and nine were not candidates for further intervention . nine ( 24 % ) patients were discharged and are long-term survivors . our results indicate that resuscitative ecmo is useful for intervals of 12 to 24 hours and can best be applied with ( 1 ) patients younger than 60 years of age ; ( 2 ) patients having acute events ( failed percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ) amenable to surgical intervention ; and ( 3 ) candidates for cardiac transplantation who could be switched to more sophisticated devices within 12 to 24 hours of ecmo insertion . with these criteria , ecmo , when used as a resuscitative system , can result in increased survival in selected patients with refractory cardiogenic shock or cardiac arrest . 
fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on escherichia coli meningitis . pseudomeningitis is the demonstration of microorganisms from the cerebrospinal fluid by stain or culture in a patient with symptoms suggesting meningitis . this is a report of fungal pseudomeningitis superimposed on a case of nosocomial escherichia coli meningitis resulting from a neurosurgical procedure . critical care personnel need to be aware of the possibility of pseudomeningitis with or without associated meningitis in the appropriate setting . 
the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty for subcapital fractures of the femoral neck . a 10-year prospective study . in a 10-year prospective study , 561 displaced subcapital fractures of the femoral neck in 546 patients were treated with the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty . within six months of their operations , 148 patients had died . in 322 hips followed up , 243 with adequate serial radiographs separated by more than one year , only 14 ( 5.6 % ) showed acetabular erosion . a group of 91 had been reviewed for between three and nine years ( mean , 4 years 10 months ) and of these , 95 % had no pain or slight pain only . comparison with an earlier series of conventional hemiarthroplasties reported from this institution showed that the clinical results were similar , but that the erosion rate had been halved . 
external fixation for type iii open tibial fractures . an analysis of 51 type iii open tibial fractures treated by external skeletal fixation is presented . the fractures are subdivided according to the classification of gustilo , mendoza and williams ( 1984 ) into types iiia , iiib and iiic . the different prognoses of these fracture subtypes is examined . the use of the hoffmann and hughes external fixators in the management of type iii open tibial fractures is presented and it is suggested that the prognosis is independent of the type of fixator used . 
neonatal osteomyelitis . thirty-four neonates with osteomyelitis were reviewed . the hip ( 19 ) was the most common site involved . swelling and pseudoparalysis were the most significant local signs . radiographic abnormalities , such as metaphyseal rarefaction and/or joint subluxation were found on the initial radiographs in 18 of the 19 hips involved . all patients were treated with antibiotics and all infections involving joints were drained surgically . good results were achieved in 75 % of all sites and in 68 % of hips . 
denatured muscle grafts for nerve repair . an experimental model of nerve damage in leprosy about 20 % of patients with leprosy develop localised granulomatous lesions in peripheral nerves . we report experiments in guinea-pigs in which freeze-thawed autogenous muscle grafts were used for the treatment of such mycobacterial granulomas . granulomas were induced in guinea-pig tibial nerves and the animals were left for 7 to 100 days in order to assess maximal damage . the local area of nerve damage was then excised and the gap filled with denatured muscle grafts . clinical assessment after periods up to 150 days showed good sensory and motor recovery which correlated well with the histological findings . the muscle graft technique may be of value for the treatment of chronic nerve lesions in selected cases of leprosy . 
the modified schollner costoplasty . the modified schollner costoplasty is a cosmetic procedure for the correction of rib prominence deformity in scoliosis . we present the results of the procedure in 21 patients who had previously undergone spinal fusion for scoliosis . we found the procedure to be well tolerated without major complications . objective cosmetic improvement was achieved in all but one case . all but one patient considered the procedure to have been of cosmetic benefit . 
selection of antibiotic coverage in vascular patients undergoing cystoscopy . bacteremic seeding of prosthetic vascular grafts represents a cause for graft infection ; transurethral procedures account for one source of bacteremia . therefore , a prospective study of 200 patients undergoing cystoscopy was conducted to identify the incidence of bacteruria and factors associated with it , organisms involved and their antibiotic sensitivities . positive cultures were found in 21 % . the incidence was 64 % in in-patients and 8 % in out-patients . positive cultures were found in 12 % of patients who received antibiotics and 29 % who did not . four percent showed signs of bacteremia . the cultures identified both gram positive and negative organisms ; multiple organisms grew in 22 % . gram negative organisms were more common in in-patients . candida grew in 8 % . the gram positive organisms were sensitive to ampicillin ( 92 % ) , sulfatrimethoprim ( 75 % ) and cefazolin ( 60 % ) ; gram negative to aminoglycosides ( 100 % ) and cefazolin ( 92 % ) . in view of the unpredictable and multiple organisms , it is recommended that pre-cystoscopy cultures be performed and specific antibiotic coverage be based on the sensitivities . 
possible role of bacterial siderophores in inflammation . iron bound to the pseudomonas siderophore pyochelin can function as a hydroxyl radical catalyst . tissue injury has been linked to neutrophil associated hydroxyl radical ( . oh ) generation , a process that requires an exogenous transition metal catalyst such as iron . in vivo most iron is bound in a noncatalytic form . to obtain iron required for growth , many bacteria secrete iron chelators ( siderophores ) . since pseudomonas aeruginosa infections are associated with considerable tissue destruction , we examined whether iron bound to the pseudomonas siderophores pyochelin ( pch ) and pyoverdin ( pvd ) could act as . oh catalysts . purified pch and pvd were iron loaded ( fe-pch , fe-pvd ) and added to a hypoxanthine/xanthine oxidase superoxide - ( . o2 - ) and hydrogen peroxide ( h2o2 ) - generating system . evidence for . oh generation was then sought using two different spin-trapping agents ( 5.5 dimethyl-pyrroline-1-oxide or n-t-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone ) , as well as the deoxyribose oxidation assay . regardless of methodology , . oh generation was detected in the presence of fe-pch but not fe-pvd . inhibition of the process by catalase and/or sod suggested . oh formation with fe-pch occurred via the haber-weiss reaction . similar results were obtained when stimulated neutrophils were used as the source of . o2 - and h2o2 . addition of fe-pch but not fe-pvd to stimulated neutrophils yielded . oh as detected by the above assay systems . since pch and pvd bind ferric ( fe3 + ) but not ferrous ( fe2 + ) iron , . oh catalysis with fe-pch would likely involve . o2 ( - ) - mediated reduction of fe3 + to fe2 + with subsequent release of " free " fe2 + . this was confirmed by measuring formation of the fe2 ( + ) - ferrozine complex after exposure of fe-pch , but not fe-pvd , to enzymatically generated . o2 - . these data show that fe-pch , but not fe-pvd , is capable of catalyzing generation of . oh . such a process could represent as yet another mechanism of tissue injury at sites of infection with p. aeruginosa . 
antigen specific serum antibody response to chlamydia trachomatis in patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease . sera from 35 patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease ( pid ) with and without chlamydia trachomatis confirmed by culture and sera from 19 control patients with neither evidence of pelvic infection nor c trachomatis infection were studied for the presence of serum igg , iga , and igm antibodies to c trachomatis using enzyme immunoassay ( eia ) and immunoblotting techniques . there was no correlation between the antibody concentrations in the eia and the spread of chlamydial infection , as determined by cervical , endometrial , and laparoscopic sampling for chlamydia . the immunoblot analysis showed antibodies to the major outer membrane protein ( momp ) of c trachomatis elementary bodies in all patients who had had c trachomatis isolated . reactivity was also frequently observed against the 68 , 62 , 60 , 45 , and 31 kilodalton antigens . about 20 antigenic polypeptides were identified . differences in antibody prevalence to specific chlamydial antigens , however , were not related to the site of chlamydial isolation or serum antibody concentrations observed with the eia . the results indicate that patients with pid with and without upper genital tract infection with c trachomatis can not be differentiated by reactivity of sera to specific chlamydial polypeptide antigens . the determination of a specific serum iga antibody response by eia was the most effective single test to discriminate between patients with and without acute chlamydial infection . 
serum pepsinogen i and gastrin concentrations in children positive for helicobacter pylori . serum pepsinogen i , serum gastrin concentration , and inflammatory scores were measured in a population of 71 children undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for investigation of upper abdominal pain . forty four were initially colonised with helicobacter pylori . the indices were measured before treatment ( in 71 children ) , one month ( in 41 children ) , and six months ( in 21 children ) after stopping treatment . before treatment there was a significant correlation between serum pepsinogen concentration , total inflammatory score , and h pylori state , but no correlation between serum gastrin concentrations and h pylori state . similarly , the total inflammatory score and serum pepsinogen concentrations were significantly correlated . there was no such correlation in children negative for h pylori . after treatment the inflammatory score improved in those patients in whom h pylori had been eradicated . there was also a significant fall in serum pepsinogen i and serum gastrin concentration in those patients in whom h pylori had been eradicated . these results were similar to those found six months after treatment had been stopped . these findings suggest that the serum pepsinogen i concentration could be considered a useful marker for gastritis and can be used as an index of severity of gastritis in h pylori positive subjects . the measurement of serum gastrin concentrations does not give useful information . 
effect of sample volume on yield of positive blood cultures from adult patients with haematological malignancy . six hundred and sixteen blood samples from patients with haematological malignancy were each distributed equally among three identical cells in a malthus microbiological growth analyser . the mean ( sd ) volumes inoculated into sets in which one , two , or three of the three bottles were positive were 37.7 ( 10.1 ) ml , 37.4 ( 12.9 ) ml , and 37.7 ( 10.5 ) ml , respectively . overall , clinically important organisms were isolated from one bottle only with 18 cultures , from two bottles only with 19 cultures , and from all three bottles in a set with 104 cultures . if the yield from a single bottle inoculated with a mean volume of 12.6 ml blood is taken as 100 % , the yield from 25.2 ml in two bottles was 110.7 % and the yield from 37.7 ml in three bottles was 115.6 % . the increased yield from increased volume was considerably lower than that reported from unselected groups of patients , which suggests that the magnitude of bacteriaemia is greater in patients with neutropenia . the isolation of infecting organisms from the blood of patients with neutropenia is , however , particularly important in directing chemotherapy and consequently 45 ml blood samples from these patients continue to be requested . 
the many faces and phases of borreliosis . i. lyme disease [ published erratum appears in j am acad dermatol 1991 apr ; 24 ( 4 ) :663 ] lyme disease is increasingly being reported throughout the united states and many parts of the world . borrelia burgdorferi , the etiologic agent of lyme disease , is a spirochete that , not unlike the treponema of syphilis , can cause a spectrum of disease from the initial skin lesion , through widely varied symptoms and signs , to chronic neurologic and arthritic disability . the borrelial spirochete and lyme disease are the subject of this review . a subsequent article will review other definite and possible cutaneous manifestations of borreliosis . 
skin pigmentation from clofazimine therapy in leprosy patients : a reappraisal . skin biopsy specimens from two lepromatous leprosy patients with dark brown pigmentation who were receiving long-term clofazimine therapy were studied . ceroid-lipofuscin pigment was demonstrated inside macrophages that contained numerous phagolysosomes . these contained lipids and clofazimine that appeared as electron-lucent vacuoles and a lipofuscin pigment that was electron dense , granular , and lamellated . although the presence of the drug in tissues contributed to the skin pigmentation , the main cause was a drug-induced , reversible ceroid lipofuscinosis . 
the many faces and phases of borreliosis ii . borrelia burgdorferi , the etiologic agent of lyme disease , has also been associated with other cutaneous conditions . acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans and lymphadenosis benigna cutis are also caused by b. burgdorferi . recent evidence links some cases of progressive facial hemiatrophy of parry-romberg , benign lymphocytic infiltrate of the skin ( jessner-kanof ) , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , morphea , and shulman syndrome with borreliae . this article reviews the manifestations of the diseases definitely linked to borreliosis and the evidence linking borreliae to progressive facial hemiatrophy , benign lymphocytic infiltrate , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , morphea , and shulman syndrome . 
cutaneous lesions of disseminated histoplasmosis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . disseminated histoplasmosis is being diagnosed more frequently in persons infected with the human immunodeficiency virus and is often the initial manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . disease-related cutaneous features of hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis are defined as mucocutaneous lesions from which fungal organisms were either cultured or demonstrated histopathologically . we report four hiv-seropositive patients with disseminated histoplasmosis who had culture-positive skin or oral lesions of histoplasmosis and review the specific cutaneous manifestations of hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis . including our patients , disease-related skin and/or mucosal lesions were present in 11 % of patients ( 26 % of 239 ) with hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis . the possibility of disseminated histoplasmosis should be considered in all hiv-infected persons and in persons with aids risk factors who have fever , weight loss , hepatosplenomegaly , and new cutaneous lesions . an early skin or mucosal biopsy specimen for crushed tissue preparation , histologic evaluation , and fungal culture is a simple , rapid diagnostic procedure . 
treatment of fungal skin infections : state of the art . the number of cases of mycotic infections are increasing , presenting physicians today with an unprecedented challenge in handling the treatment and prophylactic control of these disorders . the increase in mycotic disorders is due to many factors , such as longer life span , organ transplantation , and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . the pharmaceutical industry is providing physicians with newer , more potent drugs to manage mycoses . an overview of current practice in the use of topical and oral agents , especially ketoconazole , are given in the following specific mycoses : tinea capitis , pityriasis versicolor , seborrheic dermatitis , trichophyton rubrum infections , vaginal candidiasis , and moist intertriginous tineas . the efficacy of ketoconazole in various vehicles and dosage schedules and of traditional agents such as griseofulvin are discussed with relation to each of the mycoses . 
itraconazole in tinea versicolor : a review . itraconazole , a new orally active triazole antifungal , has been tested in patients with pityriasis versicolor . a number of studies have shown that itraconazole is effective for this mild fungal skin disease . the total dose required for effective treatment is 1000 mg , and it has been given as 200 mg for 5 days or 7 days . the organisms disappear slowly from the skin , even when dead , and the results should be assessed clinically and mycologically at around 3 to 4 weeks after treatment . numerous studies have shown that itraconazole is superior to placebo and as effective as selenium sulfide , clotrimazole , and ciclopirox olamine . it is also better tolerated by patients than selenium sulfide . 
itraconazole in common dermatophyte infections of the skin : fixed treatment schedules . itraconazole is an effective medication against the most common dermatophytoses . it has been shown to be more active than griseofulvin and ketoconazole . ease of use , affinity for keratinized tissues , lack of toxicity , continued activity after discontinuation , and the possibility of using fixed schedules are advantages of itraconazole . the fixed schedules indicated by pharmacokinetics and clinical studies are one 100 mg capsule daily for 15 days in cases of tinea corporis and tinea cruris and the same dosage for 30 days in cases of tinea pedis and tinea manuum . these fixed treatments have some limitations , and they are not recommended for treating tinea capitis and tinea unguium . the drug is well tolerated . 
itraconazole in the management of chronic dermatophytosis . fifty-five patients with griseofulvin-unresponsive dermatophytosis caused by trichophyton rubrum were treated with itraconazole . they had either tinea corporis or " dry type " infections of the palms , soles , or nails . the following sites were affected : trunk ( 12 infections ) , soles ( 47 ) , toe webs ( 52 ) , palms ( 26 ) , fingernails ( 29 ) , and toenails ( 42 ) . patients were treated with oral itraconazole until clinical and mycologic remission were achieved . response rates and mean times to recovery were as follows : trunk , 100 % , 1.5 months ; soles , 83 % , 6.7 months ; toe webs , 90 % , 7.2 months ; palms , 96 % , 4.6 months ; fingernails , 90 % , 5.4 months ; and toenails , 76 % , 10.3 months ) . in a 6-month follow-up period 7 of 30 patients with toenail infections who had responded to treatment had a clinical and mycologic relapse , usually of one nail . side effects were minimal but included abdominal discomfort ( three patients ) , headache ( one ) , and weight gain ( two ) . no persistent abnormalities in blood biochemistry were seen , even in patients who received itraconazole for more than 9 months . 
treatment of oral candidosis with itraconazole : a review . oral candidosis is a common infection in infants , elderly persons , patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy , and patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . the orally active antifungal agent itraconazole has been evaluated in a number of different patient populations with oral and oropharyngeal candidosis . initial studies have shown that itraconazole , 100 or 200 mg/day for 14 days , is more active than placebo in treating oral candidosis . a comparative study between itraconazole capsules ( 200 mg once daily ) and clotrimazole troches ( 10 mg five times daily ) showed equivalent results at the end of therapy but a significantly faster response to itraconazole and a faster relapse rate with clotrimazole . a study in aids patients with oropharyngeal candidosis demonstrated that itraconazole , 200 mg/day , and ketoconazole , 400 mg day , for 4 weeks give equivalent clinical cure rates and similar relapse rates . a pilot study with an oral solution of itraconazole has given an impressive 100 % clinical and mycological response rate within 1 week of treatment . in conclusion , itraconazole in capsule or in solution form may constitute a major addition to the armamentarium of drugs against oropharyngeal candidosis . 
treatment of vaginal candidiasis : orally or vaginally ? vaginal candidiasis continues to be the most common cause of vaginal discharge . a large variety of topical drugs and a selection of orally active antifungals are currently available . the choice between the use of oral drugs or intravaginal agents will depend on the therapeutic results obtained with the different agents , side effects , pregnancy status , and patient preference . the results obtained in the maria hospital , tilburg , the netherlands , and a review of foreign data suggest the following : ( 1 ) for acute infection oral and topical agents produce equivalent results . ( 2 ) for chronic infections oral medication is preferred . ( 3 ) oral therapy should not be given to pregnant patients or to patients not using reliable contraceptive measures . ( 4 ) half the patients prefer oral medication ; only 5 % prefer intravaginal therapy , and the others had no clear preference . 
individualizing treatment of vaginal candidiasis . clinicians have a vast array of effective antimycotics for the treatment of vaginal candidiasis . multiple topical formulations are available , yet there is little evidence to suggest that formulation per se influences outcome . a growing number of highly effective oral systemic antimycotic agents provide the practitioner with additional options . treatment regimens have also changed with the introduction of shorter , often single-day/single-dose courses of therapy . not all therapeutic agents have the same activity against vaginal fungal pathogens in that topical azoles tend to be more active than nystatin . differences in patient characteristics , however , are more important than the differences between antimycotic agents and therapeutic regimens in determining selection of the appropriate antimycotic . patients with vaginal candidiasis vary with regard to duration and severity of symptoms and past frequency of attacks , distribution of inflammation , and pregnancy status . the clinician should consider all these variables both in selecting the appropriate antimycotic agent and the route of administration and in planning the duration of therapy . individualized therapy offers additional benefits to patients , who may then enjoy the maximum advantages of antimycotics now available . 
itraconazole treatment of phaeohyphomycosis . nineteen patients with phaeohyphomycosis were treated with itraconazole . of these , 17 were assessable for clinical outcome . of these , two had received no prior therapy , five had failed amphotericin b therapy , four had failed ketoconazole or miconazole therapy , and five had failed both amphotericin b and azole therapy . one patient had received only prior surgical intervention . fungi of seven different genera caused disease of the skin in nine patients , soft tissue in nine , sinuses in eight , bone in five , joints in two , and lungs in two . itraconazole was given in dosages ranging from 50 to 600 mg/day for 1 to 48 months . clinical improvement or remission occurred in nine patients . two patients have had stabilization of disease . six patients failed treatment , one had a relapse after initially successful treatment . itraconazole appears to be highly effective in some patients with phaeohyphomycosis , including patients refractory to other antifungal agents . 
european experience with itraconazole in systemic mycoses . since january 1985 more than 100 patients with deep fungal infections have been treated with itraconazole ( 200 to 400 mg/day ) in northern italy . evaluation of the drug efficacy and tolerance was possible in one patient with sporotrichosis , in 34 with aspergillosis , and in 36 with cryptococcosis ( mainly patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus ) . response to itraconazole alone was obtained in the case of sporotrichosis and in 24 of 34 patients with different forms of aspergillosis ( of the 18 patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis , 15 were cured ) . patients with cryptococcosis received itraconazole for active infection and/or for prevention of relapse . active infection was treated successfully with itraconazole alone in 9 of 12 patients and with itraconazole plus flucytosine in 8 of 10 patients . of the 31 patients who received itraconazole maintenance therapy for up to 27 months , 4 ( 13 % ) had relapses ; 14 ( 45 % ) did not have relapses , and decline of serum antigen was detected in 12 of them ; and 13 ( 42 % ) were completely cured ( serum antigen titer dropped to zero ) . with the exception of hypokalemia in one patient , itraconazole was well tolerated even in patients who received the drug for several months or years . 
itraconazole therapy for nonmeningeal coccidioidomycosis : clinical and laboratory observations . itraconazole , a new oral triazole antifungal agent , was administered in 75 courses to patients with chronic coccidioidomycosis at dosages of 50 to 400 mg/day for a median duration of 10 months . assessment of efficacy was made with a standardized scoring system . responses were seen in 42 of 58 assessable courses ( 72 % ) . nonresponse occurred exclusively in patients who had failed previous therapy and was most common in pulmonary disease . toxicity was minimal at the doses studied . pharmacokinetic analysis of itraconazole in serum at steady state showed negligible circadian variation ; differences in serum concentrations among patients were large . clinical isolates of coccidioides immitis showed uniform in vitro susceptibility to itraconazole . itraconazole shows impressive activity in this series of patients with refractory coccidioidomycosis . further evaluation of itraconazole in this and in other systemic mycoses is in order . 
itraconazole in opportunistic mycoses : cryptococcosis and aspergillosis . striking results were obtained with oral itraconazole therapy in two opportunistic mycoses . of 28 patients with cryptococcal meningitis , 18 achieved complete responses , including 16 of 24 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . other manifestations of cryptococcosis were similarly responsive . in aspergillosis 12 of 15 patients responded , including 8 of 10 immunocompromised hosts . these patients included those with invasive pulmonary disease ( 4/5 ) , skeletal disease ( 2/2 ) , pleural disease ( 1/2 ) , and pericardial , sinus , mastoid , hepatosplenic , or nail disease ( 1/1 ) . these results with itraconazole compare favorably to conventional ( parenteral ) therapy , and toxicity was minimal . this suggests that comparative trials are now in order . 
itraconazole therapy in aspergillosis : study in 49 patients . itraconazole , 200 to 400 mg once daily , was administered to 49 patients with different types of aspergillosis : pulmonary aspergilloma ( 14 patients ) , chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis ( 14 ) , and invasive aspergillosis ( 21 ) . itraconazole was prescribed alone or in combination or after treatment with amphotericin b and flucytosine . of 14 aspergilloma patients , 2 were cured and 8 had symptomatic improvement . in chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis , 7 of 14 patients were cured and 6 improved significantly . in invasive aspergillosis treatment failed in 6 patients and 15 were cured . itraconazole can be an alternative to amphotericin b in the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis . in aspergilloma itraconazole may be useful in inoperable cases . 
an external urine collection device for incontinent women . evaluation of long-term use . urinary incontinence is common in aged women , may precipitate nursing home admission , and may prompt use of a urine collection device , usually an indwelling urethral catheter . the safety and efficacy of a new external urine collection device for women that is affixed to the perineum by an adhesive developed for ostomy bags was evaluated . applied to 26 aged women , 78 % of 2,264 devices were leak-free for 24 hours and 49 % for 48 hours . the incidence of new bacteriuria was less than half that found in our earlier studies of long-term urethral catheters in the same institution . perineal erythema was infrequent and preexisting decubitus ulcers improved or did not change . four patients were withdrawn , one each because of periurethral itching , diminished urine output , recurrent wetness , and fracture of the proximal femur associated with severe osteoporosis . this device may offer an alternative to urethral catheters for management of urinary incontinence but should not be used on women with urine retention and should be used with care on women with severe osteoporosis . controlled trials must determine effects upon bacteriologic complications and health-care costs . 
possible role of leukotrienes in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori . this study was done to evaluate the role of leukotrienes ( lts ) in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori . biopsy specimens of gastric mucosa were obtained endoscopically from 18 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia for bacteriological and histological examination and extraction of lts . there was correlation between the ltb4 level in the mucosa and the degree of gastritis evaluated histologically . the level was higher when infiltration of neutrophils in the gastric mucosa was more extensive . the ltb4 level in mucosa infected with c. pylori was higher than that in noninfected mucosa . these findings suggest that endogenous lts may be related to the pathogenesis of gastritis associated with c. pylori . 
evidence for gastric mucosal cell invasion by c. pylori : an ultrastructural study . it is now generally accepted that campylobacter pylori is closely associated with peptic ulcer disease and chronic type b gastritis . whether c. pylori is the direct etiologic cause of either or both of these illnesses remains unclear . possible pathophysiologic effects of c. pylori are still a matter of debate and conjecture . utilizing a small group of patients with gastric ulcers and chronic gastritis , we examined the ultrastructural relationship between c. pylori and gastric cells . forty-eight percent of our gastric ulcer patients and 57 % of our chronic gastritis patients had c. pylori in their lower corpus mucosa . examination with the transmission electron microscope indicated a very close proximation by c. pylori to the surface epithelial cells strongly suggesting adherence . we also describe for the first time the invasion of gastric cells by c. pylori . although an uncommon occurrence , we had repeated observations of c. pylori invading surface epithelial cells , parietal cells , and chief cells . most of the intracellular c. pylori were intact but other forms appearing to be degenerating organisms were also seen . we suggest that cell invasion may be one mechanism by which c. pylori causes pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa . these observations may also explain why c. pylori chronically infects gastric cells and frequently recurs after treatment . 
a case of unexpected pasteurella multocida bacteremia . a case of pasteurella multocida bacteremia in a previously healthy hospital employee is presented . the patient had sustained a scratch from his dog four days prior to being seen in the emergency department with adequate healing and no evidence of localized infection . he presented with an acute febrile illness , and was discharged from the emergency department with a diagnosis of viral syndrome . he was asked to return to the hospital the next day when a bacteriology report of gram negative rods in both aerobic and anaerobic blood culture bottles was received in the emergency department . pasteurella multocida bacteremia/septicemia is seen most frequently in immunocompromised patients but the diagnosis should be considered in any patient with a febrile illness and exposure to cats or dogs . 
assessing the risk of occupational acquisition of the human immunodeficiency virus : implications for hospital policy . in determining infection control policy , it is essential to quantitatively assess the risk of transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) to health care workers and their families . the risk should be placed in perspective by comparing it with other occupational hazards . the risk of seroconversion from a needlestick injury can be calculated from the probability of a needlestick occurrence , the probability that the source patient is infected , and the probability of seroconversion , given an exposure . the risk of seroconversion due to drawing 1000 blood specimens from seropositive patients is between 86 and 470 in 100,000 . the risk to surgeons from performing 25 operations on infected patients is approximately 272 in 100,000 . the risk of fatal injury in the course of one year 's work on a louisiana oil rig is between 188 and 283 per 100,000 . 
duplex doppler examination of a perinephric abscess in a renal transplant . perinephric abscess has no characteristic ultrasonic appearance or location . differentiation from urinoma , lymphocele , or hematoma depends on clinical and laboratory findings . therapy consists of percutaneous catheter drainage , surgical drainage , and antibiotic therapy . acute rejection is the most common cause of decreased diastolic flow during the immediate postoperative period . acute tubular necrosis does not usually alter blood flow unless it is severe . duplex doppler ultrasonic assessment of the renal transplant during the immediate postoperative period may provide a valuable baseline for comparison if complications develop . baseline and follow-up ultrasonography to evaluate diastolic flow can help determine whether a posttransplant patient should receive emergency or conservative therapy for complications . 
broad spectrum penicillin as an adequate therapy for acute cholangitis . in a previous study of patients with acute cholecystitis , we demonstrated equal efficacy with a broad spectrum penicillin ( piperacillin ) and a penicillin plus amino-glycoside combination . whether a single agent broad spectrum penicillin is adequate treatment for more severe infections , such as acute cholangitis , however , is still unclear . we , therefore , conducted a three center , prospective , randomized trial to determine whether or not a broad spectrum penicillin alone is adequate therapy for patients with acute cholangitis . during a 36 month period , 96 patients with sepsis and biliary obstruction were randomly assigned to receive either piperacillin ( n = 49 ) or ampicillin plus tobramycin ( n = 47 ) . the two groups receiving antibiotics were similar with respect to all clinical and laboratory parameters . the incidence of blood cultures with positive results ( 20 versus 21 per cent ) and underlying malignant lesions ( 51 versus 62 per cent ) was also similar between the two groups . the percentage of patients with a clinical cure or significant improvement was the same in the two groups ( 69 versus 70 per cent ) . however , there was a significant difference in the cure rate between patients with benign and malignant biliary obstructions ( 83 versus 59 per cent , p less than 0.01 ) . no significant differences were noted between the two antibiotic groups with respect to drug toxicity , but patients with malignant conditions were more prone to antibiotic related toxicities ( 2 versus 19 per cent , p less than 0.05 ) . these data suggest that outcome of treatment in patients with acute cholangitis is similar with either a broad spectrum penicillin or a penicillin plus aminoglycoside combination and is dependent upon the nature of the biliary obstruction . 
ascending cholangitis : surgery versus endoscopic or percutaneous drainage . a retrospective review of 61 patients with calculous cholangitis was carried out . there were 31 men and 30 women and their mean age was 75.8 years . all patients had abdominal pain , 87 % had chills and fever , 65 % had clinical jaundice , 23 % were in shock , and 54 % had positive blood cultures . because intravenous hydration and antibiotics did not help , 33 patients underwent surgery , 25 patients underwent endoscopic papillotomy ( ep ) , and three patients underwent percutaneous transhepatic drainage of the common bile duct ( ptd ) . morbidity in the surgery group included two wound infections , one respiratory failure , and one renal failure . morbidity in the ep-ptd group was one case of arterial bleeding requiring surgery and one of pancreatitis treated conservatively . two patients ( 6 % ) died in the surgery group , one of sepsis and the other of cardiorespiratory arrest . in the ep-ptd group nine patients ( 32 % ) died of sepsis and multisystem organ failure . these patients were considered too ill to undergo surgery and thus repeat ep-ptd was carried out . cholangitis persisted , and retained common bile duct stones with sepsis was the cause of death . thus when initial ep or ptd is unsuccessful , surgical exploration of the common bile duct should be carried out to control sepsis . 
the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome in an adult [ published erratum appears in thorax 1990 dec ; 45 ( 12 ) :984 ] a 27 year old white woman with a history of chronic eczema and episodes of serious infection of the chest , skin , and bone presented with acute respiratory failure . she was found to have a spontaneous right pneumothorax and a pneumatocele in the left upper lobe . despite a left upper lobectomy she was left with chronic respiratory failure , bullous lung disease , and bilateral bronchiectasis . the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome was diagnosed only in adult life . 
pulmonary disease following intravesical bcg treatment . bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) is an attenuated strain of mycobacterium bovis that has been used in the treatment of malignant disease for over 20 years and for the treatment of bladder cancer since 1976 . major complications of this treatment are infrequent . we report two cases of systemic illness with pulmonary manifestations after treatment with intravesical bcg . 
renal abscess in children . three cases of renal abscesses in children are described to illustrate the variable presenting features . an additional 23 pediatric cases , reported over the past ten years , were reviewed for clinical features and therapy . fever , loin pain , and leukocytosis were common presenting features , but less than half of all abscesses were associated with either an abnormal urinalysis or a positive urine culture . the presenting features were sometimes confused with appendicitis , peritonitis , or a wilms tumor . an organism was identified in 17 cases -- escherichia coli in 9 children and staphylococcus aureus in 8 children . the majority of e. coli infections occurred in girls and the majority of s. aureus infections occurred in boys . reflux was documented in 5 patients , and 2 children had a possible extrarenal source of infection . antibiotics alone produced a cure in 10 children ( 38 % ) , but 16 children ( 62 % ) required a surgical procedure . 
pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis occurred in 30 patients ; 18 ( 60 % ) presented with at least 1 pulmonary complaint and 10 ( 33 % ) had multiple pulmonary symptoms . in 14 patients ( 47 % ) , abnormalities were found on examination of the chest . in 16 chest roentgenograms ( 53 % ) , there was at least 1 abnormality : right-sided pleural effusion ( 9 patients ) and elevated right hemidiaphragm ( 8 patients ) were the most common . all patients were treated with metronidazole ( flagyl ) and had resolution of the amebic liver abscess and pulmonary disease . pleuropulmonary disease is a common complication of amebic liver abscess . the clinical presentation and chest roentgenograms are virtually diagnostic and obviate the need for invasive procedures to confirm the diagnosis . pleuropulmonary disease resolves with amebicidal treatment of the hepatic abscess . 
disc space infection : a case report with mri diagnosis . vertebral disc space infection is an uncommon cause of back pain . physical findings may be unimpressive and laboratory evaluation may only disclose an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate . magnetic resonance imaging is particularly useful , since it reveals abnormalities earlier than plain radiographs and is more precise than bone scan . 
clostridium difficile invasion and toxin circulation in fatal pediatric pseudomembranous colitis . the direct involvement of clostridium difficile in the lesional tissue of pseudomembranous colitis has not been demonstrated ; the organism 's effects have been assumed to be strictly toxin mediated . because c. difficile cytotoxin may be found incidentally in the intestinal lumina of asymptomatic infants , the role of the organism in a variety of pediatric intestinal diseases is uncertain . the authors studied seven cases of fatal pediatric pseudomembranous colitis in which the presence of c. difficile was uniformly demonstrable in lesional tissues with the use of both an intestinal spore stain and a specific immunostain . the patients had either underlying hirschsprung 's disease or hematologic malignancy ; the striking pathologic features peculiar to these patients were altered mucosal mucin and immunologic barriers in the former group and neutropenia in the latter . two patients had demonstrable circulating cytotoxin in serum or ascitic fluid , and c. difficile was identified invading colonic mucosa or submucosa . such phenomena did not occur in control pediatric patients with multiple other intestinal lesions . altered host factors may be responsible for the intestinal invasion of c. difficile and its systemic toxin circulation in cases of fatal pediatric pseudomembranous colitis . 
cerebrospinal fluid changes after 48 hours of effective therapy for hemophilus influenzae type b meningitis . interval cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) analysis is often performed to assess efficacy of treatment for bacterial meningitis . the authors reviewed 101 cases of pediatric bacterial meningitis resulting from hemophilus influenzae type b in which analysis of csf occurred on admission and between 48 and 72 hours after initiation of parenteral antibiotic therapy ; of these , only one patient had a positive repeat csf culture . of the 100 cases with sterile csf on repeat culture , there was no instance of recrudescence of infection during hospitalization . the following characterized the interval changes in csf profile of this group : 100 ( 100 % ) with persistence of pleocytosis ; 14 ( 14 % ) with differential cell count conversion from polymorphonuclear neutrophil leukocyte ( pmn ) predominance to relative lymphocytosis ; 96 of 98 ( 98 % ) with initial positive gram-stained smear with negative results for organisms ; 53 of 75 ( 71 % ) with normalization of initial hypoglycorrhachia ; and 10 of 94 ( 11 % ) with normalization of initial abnormally elevated protein levels . the differences in mean values of csf total white blood cell counts , percentage pmns , and glucose and protein concentrations on presentation and between 48-72 hours of therapy were highly significant ( p less than 0.0001 ) . after 48 hours of effective antibiotic therapy for h. influenzae type b meningitis , csf pleocytosis and abnormally elevated protein concentration are usually preserved , whereas hypoglycorrhachia usually resolves ; it is not uncommon for the differential cell count to convert from a pmn predominance to a relative lymphocytosis . significant alteration in all csf parameters associated with h. influenzae type b meningitis can occur after 48 hours of effective parenteral antibiotic therapy . 
percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy for acute complicated cholecystitis in elderly patients . we report our experience with percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy in 10 elderly patients with acute cholecystitis , complicated by empyema formation . most of these patients has severe underlying disease , rendering them at high risk for surgical intervention . in all patients , the percutaneous procedure was followed by a rapid regression of clinical symptoms and of radiologic abnormalities . six were considered inoperable . three of these remain free of biliary symptoms , respectively 22 , 10 , and 7 months after percutaneous cholecystostomy . three others died of nonbiliary disease 1-4 months after cholecystostomy . three patients underwent successful elective cholecystostomy 1-5 wk after percutaneous cholecystostomy . in one patient , cholecystectomy had to be performed because of recurrence of hydrops , 1 wk after catheter removal . in our opinion , percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy is a safe and effective procedure in the treatment of elderly patients with acute complicated cholecystitis . it can be followed by elective cholecystectomy in good surgical candidates , or by an expectant conservative management in high surgical risk patients . 
hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with persistent helicobacter pylori infection and active gastritis . we report two cases of patients with 3-yr histories of upper gastrointestinal symptoms , hyperplastic gastric polyps , and active chronic gastritis . biopsies retrospectively stained with giemsa revealed the persistent presence of helicobacter pylori ( hp ) in gastric biopsies of both patients throughout the 3 yr . after treatment with amoxicillin and bismuth subsalicylate , both became asymptomatic , one demonstrating disappearance and recurrence of the gastric polyps in conjunction with the hp . these cases demonstrate 3 yr of hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with hp and active gastritis . 
disseminated , nonmeningeal gastrointestinal cryptococcal infection in an hiv-negative patient . gastrointestinal cryptococcosis is extremely rare , especially in patients with no involvement of the central nervous system . we describe a 63-yr-old man undergoing prednisone therapy for chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis who presented with peritonitis , colitis , and skin lesions . pathological studies revealed necrosis and numerous cryptococcal organisms in the colon , omentum , and skin , and cultures yielded cryptococcus neoformans . the patient died of multisystem organ failure following emergency exploratory surgery performed when he had onset of symptoms of a bowel perforation after an endoscopic biopsy . clinicians should be aware that gastrointestinal cryptococcosis can occur in the absence of infection of the central nervous system or lungs , and that it may affect relatively healthy patients who are immunocompromised because of splenectomy , chronic liver disease , or steroid therapy . 
streptococcus mitis sepsis in bone marrow transplant patients receiving oral antimicrobial prophylaxis . purpose : streptococcal infection has increasingly become a problem in neutropenic patients . we report on an outbreak of streptococcus mitis sepsis in six bone marrow transplant patients receiving oral antimicrobial prophylaxis . patients and methods : we performed an epidemiologic study of all patients in our bone marrow transplant program from 1986 to 1988 . the hospital and microbiology records for all patients were reviewed . all bone marrow patients were treated according to specified protocols , including an oral prophylactic antimicrobial regimen that was changed in late 1987 from vancomycin/polymyxin/tobramycin to norfloxacin . identification , susceptibility testing , and whole cell protein analysis of streptococcal isolates were performed at the reference and antimicrobial investigations laboratories at the centers for disease control . results : we detected six cases of s. mitis sepsis among 21 patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation . no other concurrent pathogen was isolated from any patient at the time of the s. mitis bacteremia . bacteremia developed within 72 hours of transplant in five of six patients and was associated with severe mucositis in four patients . an environmental study failed to reveal any common source for the outbreak , and whole cell protein analysis of all six s. mitis isolates revealed each to be distinct . of 12 patients receiving oral vancomycin/polymyxin/tobramycin , one developed s. mitis bacteremia , versus five of nine patients receiving norfloxacin ( p less than 0.03 ) . conclusion : we believe s. mitis bacteremia is a potential complication of bone marrow transplantation and is associated with antimicrobial prophylaxis with norfloxacin , especially in the setting of mucositis . 
pleuritis as a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the frequency with which tuberculous pleuritis is a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis and to compare the clinical manifestations of reactivation tuberculous pleuritis with " classic " tuberculous pleuritis , in which chest roentgenograms reveal no parenchymal infiltrates . patients and methods : we evaluated the medical records of 59 patients in whom tuberculous pleuritis was confirmed by histologic findings or mycobacterial culture . twenty-seven patients ( 46 % ) had typical chest roentgenographic findings of reactivation tuberculosis , whereas 32 ( 54 % ) had classic tuberculous pleuritis . the clinical and laboratory features of these two groups were compared . results : symptoms were more prolonged and pleural fluid glucose and lactate dehydrogenase concentrations were more markedly abnormal in patients with reactivation pleuritis than in those with classic pleuritis , suggesting a more chronic inflammatory process in the former group . compared with patients with classic tuberculous pleuritis , those with reactivation pleuritis had a lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests ( 61 % versus 88 % ) and granulomatous pleural inflammation ( 25 % versus 72 % ) , but a higher bacillary burden , manifest by a higher frequency of positive sputum smears for acid-fast bacilli ( 50 % versus 0 % ) and positive mycobacterial cultures from sputum ( 60 % versus 23 % ) and pleural fluid ( 91 % versus 66 % ) . conclusions : in contrast to previous reports , tuberculous pleuritis was a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis in 46 % ( 27 of 59 ) of patients . tuberculous pleuritis is a more chronic process in patients with reactivation disease than in those with classic pleuritis . the lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests and granuloma formation , combined with the higher bacillary burden in patients with reactivation pleuritis , suggest that these patients mount a less effective immune response to mycobacterium tuberculosis infection than do patients with the classic form of tuberculous pleuritis . 
association of helicobacter pylori infection with dyspeptic symptoms in patients undergoing gastroduodenoscopy . purpose : to determine the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia and ulcer disease as well as in a control population undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) for suspected pancreatic or biliary disease . patients and methods : forty-six eligible patients undergoing upper endoscopy at massachusetts general hospital were studied over a period of 18 months , as well as 24 patients undergoing ercp for presumed pancreatic or biliary disease . two biopsy specimens from the fundus and two from the antrum were taken for microbiologic and histopathologic analysis . sera were examined by enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay . all specimens were processed in a blind fashion . chi-square test with yates ' correction was used for statistical analysis . results : h. pylori was found in 31 of 46 ( 67 % ) study patients and in six of 24 ( 25 % ) control patients ( by microbiologic or histologic techniques ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . h. pylori was found in all patients with peptic ulcer disease and in 60 % of patients without ulcers . no association between h. pylori and any specific gastrointestinal symptom was observed . h. pylori was identified in the fundus as often as in the antrum , although in the antrum the organism was more often associated with histologic gastritis . compared with histology , serologic assays for igg and iga antibodies to h. pylori had sensitivities of 100 % and 94 % , and specificities of 86 % and 76 % , respectively . reexamination of selected specimens without knowledge of their identity revealed that the specificity of serology exceeded 94 % while the sensitivity of histologic and microbiologic studies may have been closer to 80 % . conclusions : h. pylori was more common in dyspeptic patients than in our control subjects undergoing ercp . multiple biopsy sites from fundus and antrum are required to exclude infection . serologies of igg and iga were sensitive and specific for h. pylori , suggesting a possible role for non-endoscopic diagnosis of this infection . the frequent association of h. pylori with active inflammation rather than with quiescent gastritis is consistent with a pathologic role of this organism . 
evidence of subclinical blastomycosis in forestry workers in northern minnesota and northern wisconsin . purpose : to investigate the incidence of remote subclinical blastomycosis in a high-risk population of forestry workers . patients and methods : the study consisted of 39 male forestry workers from northern minnesota and northern wisconsin , areas endemic for blastomycosis but not for histoplasmosis . all subjects were histoplasmin skin test-negative , and none had ever been diagnosed with blastomycosis or pneumonia . an antigen-specific lymphocyte stimulation assay was performed to determine the presence of blastomycosis . results : peripheral blood lymphocytes from 12 of 39 subjects demonstrated specific antigen-induced proliferation when stimulated with a purified alkali - and water-soluble antigen derived from the cell wall of blastomyces dermatitidis . conclusion : the finding that 30 % of these men had evidence of previous blastomycosis suggests that subclinical cases do occur sporadically , and are probably more common than diagnosed symptomatic cases . this is similar to histoplasmosis , in which the majority of infections are subclinical . however , the reservoir of persons with previous undiagnosed blastomycosis is probably small compared to the huge number of persons ( perhaps 30 million ) with prior histoplasmosis . 
sexually transmitted diseases and human immunodeficiency virus infection among women with pelvic inflammatory disease . both human immunodeficiency virus infections and pelvic inflammatory diseases are sexually acquired illnesses of great consequence to women . this study was undertaken to determine if women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease , in a community endemic for human immunodeficiency virus , were at high risk to be infected with human immunodeficiency virus and if human immunodeficiency virus infections altered their hospital course . one hundred ten women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease in brooklyn ( in a hospital in which 2 % of parturients are human immunodeficiency virus seropositive ) agreed to human immunodeficiency virus testing ; 15 ( 13.6 % ) were found to be seropositive . seropositive women were significantly more likely to have an admission white blood cell count less than 10,000 / mm3 ( p = 0.001 ) . human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity was not associated with a higher frequency of other sexually transmitted diseases although there was a trend toward more cases of syphilis among human immunodeficiency virus-infected women . similarly , although there was no significant difference in rates of operative intervention ( 26.6 % among seropositive and 8.4 % among seronegative ; p = 0.058 ) , there was a trend toward more surgery among those who were human immunodeficiency virus infected . women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease , in a community endemic for human immunodeficiency virus , are at high risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection . more research is needed to verify a trend toward more refractory infections among human immunodeficiency virus-infected women . 
postpartum osteomyelitis caused by group b streptococcus . postpartum infections caused by group b streptococci are generally limited in scope . we report a case of vaginal colonization with group b streptococcus that progressed in the postpartum period to osteomyelitis that necessitated total hip replacement . the patient had no risk factors predisposing to streptococcal osteomyelitis . an altered immune status in pregnancy and intrapartum bacteremia may be involved in the pathogenesis of this infection . 
high infectious morbidity in pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes : an understated complication . patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are prone to infection , possibly related to poor metabolic control . relative immune deficiency exists in pregnancy . we hypothesized that pregnant patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are at an increased risk for infection and that infection is related to poor glycemic control . we matched 65 pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes to 65 nondiabetic pregnant controls . at least one episode of infection before delivery occurred in 83 % of the women with insulin-dependent diabetes ( 26 % in control group ) . the rate of postpartum infection was five times higher in the group with insulin-dependent diabetes and they were susceptible to more kinds of infections . although there was no overall difference among the indices of glycemic control , hemoglobin a1 obtained before the infection was higher than during infection . we conclude that a high rate of infection exists in pregnant women with diabetes ; infection and poor glycemic control may be associated , but it is unclear whether improvement in metabolic control will reduce this high infection rate . 
intraamniotic infection in the very early phase of the second trimester . a total of 157 consecutive patients were studied in an effort to examine prospectively the incidence of asymptomatic intraamniotic infection in the early phase of the second trimester . all patients were referred for amniotic fluid karyotyping . in addition , the amniotic fluids were examined for gram stain and were directly cultured on blood agar and macconkey agar as well as in thioglycollate broth . we found positive amniotic fluid cultures in eight cases ( 5.09 % ) ; however , results of gram stain examinations were negative in all amniotic fluid samples . the data indicate that there is no correlation between white blood cells in the amniotic fluid and positive amniotic fluid culture results . only one pregnancy with positive amniotic fluid culture resulted in a septic abortion . therefore we can suggest that intraamniotic infection can exist early in pregnancy , even with intact membranes , and in most cases without any clinical symptoms . 
oral contraceptives and myocardial infarction . the risk of myocardial infarction in contraceptive users is limited to women over 35 years of age who smoke . the cause of myocardial infarction in oral contraceptive users is thrombotic and not atherosclerotic . minor lipid changes have no clinical relevance to myocardial infarction in contraceptive pill users and do not appear to increase coronary plaques . 
lyme borreliosis in the severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) mouse manifests predominantly in the joints , heart , and liver . the authors describe the histopathologic evolution of lyme disease in severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) and normal c.b-17 and c57bl/6 mice inoculated with borrelia burgdorferi . starting on day 7 after inoculation , all scid mice infected subcutaneously in the tail with a low-passage european tick isolate of b. burgdorferi had clinical evidence of arthritis characterized by reddening and swelling of tibiotarsal joints . later on , other joints , ie , metatarsal and ulnacarpal joints were also affected . the infection of scid mice resulted in a persistent spirochetemia and the development of a multisystem disease with chronic progressive inflammation of joints , heart , and liver . major histopathologic alterations included 1 ) severe joint lesions , characterized by the presence of hyperplastic inflamed synovial lining cells associated with the erosion and destruction of cartilage and/or bone ; 2 ) pancarditis with infiltrations of mononuclear cells in the endocardium , myocardium , and pericardium ; and 3 ) hepatitis with mononuclear cell infiltrations confined to the portal field and central vein , granulomatous reactions , and eventually the development of liver fibrosis . in addition , smaller more confined lesions were found in kidneys , lung , brain , and striated muscle . the inflammatory infiltrates in the various organs were associated mostly with mac-1 + cells , largely monocytes and macrophages , as well as some polymorphonuclear leukocytes , but not b and t lymphocytes . infective spirochetes could be readily isolated from blood and joints and were found at the site of inoculum and the myocardium . in contrast , subcutaneous inoculation of normal c.b-17 or c57bl/6 mice with spirochetes in general did not result in clinical signs of arthritis . only 10 % to 20 % of the c57bl/6 mice , but none of the c.b-17 mice , showed clinical evidence of oligoarthritis , which appeared not before day 36 after inoculation . in general , the infection of normal mice resulted in minimal lesions in various organs , and no spirochetes could be visualized or reisolated from their tissues . the data demonstrate that lyme borreliosis may develop in mice in the absence of detectable specific b and t cells and thus suggest an immunologic control of the disease in this species . the scid mouse model therefore can be used to define the components of the immune system responsible for the suppression and/or the progression of the disease . 
hemofiltration reverses left ventricular dysfunction during sepsis in dogs . depressed left ventricular ( lv ) contractility in sepsis has been ascribed to the presence of circulating cardiodepressant substance ( filterable cardiodepressant factor in sepsis [ fcs ] ) ; however , this finding is controversial . the authors hypothesized that if a decrease in lv contractility indeed occurred due to a circulating depressant substance , then removal of this substance by hemofiltration would reverse by dysfunction . in this study , lv mechanics were examined before and after hemofiltration in anesthetized dogs during continuous intravenous infusion of live escherichia coli . left ventricular anterior-posterior and apex-base dimensions were measured by subendocardial ultrasonic crystal transducers implanted 4 weeks before the experiments . left ventricular contractility was determined from the end-systolic pressure-dimension relationship . the slope of this relationship ( emax ) is an index of contractility . after 4 h of sepsis , emax was reduced by one half . hemofiltration resulted in a return of emax to control values . the fcs activity in the plasma was also assessed by the percent reduction in isometric contraction of electrically stimulated , isolated right ventricular trabeculae obtained from nonseptic dogs . the fcs activity reached a peak 4 h after sepsis and was reduced after 2 h of hemofiltration . the results show that during experimental sepsis , a circulating substance of less than 30,000 d produces a decrease in lv contractility and that this lv dysfunction may be improved by hemofiltration . 
epidemiology of infection by nontuberculous mycobacteria ix . evidence for two dna homology groups among small plasmids in mycobacterium avium , mycobacterium intracellulare , and mycobacterium scrofulaceum . a 12.9 kb plasmid , pvt2 , from a clinical mycobacterium avium isolate , md1 , was cloned and radiolabeled for use as a dna probe to examine the relatedness of plasmids in m. avium complex . that probe hybridized with plasmids isolated from m. avium complex strains from the environment ( 7 of 16 ) and from non-acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) ( 10 of 17 ) and aids ( 5 of 6 ) clinical isolates . the similarity of plasmids from the environment with those from patients supports the hypothesis that the environment is a source of human m. avium complex infection . more striking was the observation that pvt2 hybridized with every plasmid ( 13 of 13 clinical and 5 of 5 environmental isolates ) of 13.5 kb or smaller . a second probe , consisting of a 15.3 kb plasmid ( plr7 ) from another clinical isolate of the m. avium complex , hybridized with plasmids of 15.3 to 25 kb from environmental and clinical ( aids and non-aids ) isolates . there was no hybridization between pvt2 and plr7 . thus , these two probes define two different groups of small mycobacterial plasmids . 
manual ventilation bags as a source for bacterial colonization of intubated patients . a group of 14 intensive care unit ( icu ) patients were studied to determine if manual ventilation bags ( mvb ) could serve as a source of bacterial or fungal pathogens that could colonize the respiratory tract of intubated patients . a total of 51 cultures were simultaneously obtained of patient 's sputum , the exterior mvb surface , mvb port , and mvb interior ( postexhalation valve ) . pathogens colonizing or infecting the respiratory tract of intubated icu patients were frequently simultaneously present on the exterior surface of the mvb and inside the mvb port used to connect the mvb with the endotracheal tube . in addition , coagulase-negative staphylococci and yeast were frequently present on the exterior surface of the mvb . the interior of the mvb was usually sterile . in three instances pathogens were isolated from the mvb before isolation from the patient 's sputum . mvb may serve as a source for colonizing the respiratory tract of intubated icu patients and/or the hands of medical personnel . the exterior surface and port of mvb should be cleaned of visible debris and disinfected at least once a day . 
toxic shock syndrome after inguinal hernia repair . report of a case with patient survival . a 40-year-old man developed fulminant multisystem failure several days after elective repair of an inguinal hernia . toxic shock syndrome ( tss ) was diagnosed . there was , however , no evidence of wound infection at the time of multisystem failure . only later in his hospital course did the wound drain . staphylococcus aureus was cultured from the wound and was the presumed etiologic agent in the patient 's life-threatening illness . the patient recovered fully with supportive care , antibiotics , and surgical debridement of the inguinal hernia site . this case is discussed in the context of existing literature on the toxic shock syndrome . the site of infection is typically nonsuppurative , but the systemic manifestations are typically life threatening . the responsible organism is commonly believed to be a strain of s. aureus that expresses a toxin ( tss toxin-1 ) that effects multisystem failure , but which also diminishes the local inflammatory response and explains the benign appearance of the wound . although this is a rare clinical entity , elective surgical procedures complicated by fatal tss have been reported . surgeons should understand this disease and the management necessary to avert mortality . 
ceftazidime/clindamycin versus tobramycin/clindamycin in the treatment of intra-abdominal infections . in order to assess the efficacy and toxicity of ceftazidime as a substitute for aminoglycosides in the treatment of intra-abdominal sepsis , a prospective randomized trial was conducted . ninety-four patients ( 49 % trauma ) were randomized to receive ceftazidime/clindamycin ( caz/c ) ( n = 47 ) or tobramycin/clindamycin ( t/c ) ( n = 47 ) . caz ( 2.0 gm ) and c ( 0.9 gm ) were administered intravenously every 8 hours while t dosage was adjusted to maintain peak ( 5-8 mg/l ) and trough ( less than 2 mg/l ) concentrations . age , sex , baseline serum creatinine , and etiology of infection were comparable in the two groups . clinical cure was similar in culture-positive and culture-negative patients who received caz/c ( 94 % vs 88 % ) . the clinical cure rate however was significantly lower in the t/c culture positive ( 73 % ) than in the culture negative patients ( 100 % ) ( p = 0.016 ) . pathogenic organisms were eradicated in 100 % ( 30/30 ) and 76 % ( 13/17 ) of caz/c and t/c patients , respectively ( p = 0.0006 ) . nephrotoxicity nephrotoxicity or ototoxicity was observed in none of the caz/c patients and in one and two t/c patients , respectively . caz/c more effectively eradicated the bacteria isolated from these patients and no significant difference in clinical response was observed in culture-positive patients . these findings plus the lack of toxicity suggest that caz/c is an effective alternative for treatment of iai . 
effects of method of hemostasis on wound-infection rate . adequate hemostasis is important in preventing postoperative wound infection . this study compared four methods of hemostasis : specific pinpoint vessel electrocautery ( spc ) , specific vessel ligation with 4-0 vicryl ( svl ) , nonspecific electrocautery of vessel plus excessive surrounding tissue ( nsc ) , and nonspecific ligation of vessel and excessive surrounding tissue with 4-0 vicryl ( nsl ) , on the rate of wound infection in rabbits that were contaminated with 10 ( 6 ) staphylococcus aureus . there was no statistical significant increase in the rate of wound sepsis when electrocautery was used in a fashion producing minimal nonviable tissue compared to specific vessel ligation . electrocautery use for specific vessel hemostasis does not result in a higher wound infection rate in contaminated wounds . 
congenital insensitivity to pain with neuroparalytic keratitis . congenital insensitivity to pain is a well-defined entity in the group of sensory deficiency syndromes . to the best of our knowledge , unilateral neuroparalytic keratitis associated with congenital insensitivity to pain has not been reported . we report such a case to alert clinicians to this potentially blinding problem . 
relapse of infant botulism . we report on 3 infants who had relapse of infant botulism after apparent resolution of clinical symptoms . this group represented 5 % of the infants with confirmed infant botulism who were treated at our institution since 1976 . the exact cause for these relapses was unclear , but three potential mechanisms are examined . there were no historical , clinical , or electrophysiological predictors of relapse . although at the time of writing recovery from relapse appeared complete , close follow-up of patients recovering from a bout of infant botulism is necessary . 
in vitro evaluation of nicotinamide riboside analogs against haemophilus influenzae . exogenous nad , nicotinamide mononucleotide , or nicotinamide riboside is required for the growth of haemophilus influenzae . these compounds have been defined as the v-factor growth requirement . we have previously shown that the internalization of nicotinamide riboside is energy dependent and carrier mediated with saturation kinetics . thionicotinamide riboside , 3-pyridinealdehyde riboside , 3-acetylpyridine riboside , and 3-aminopyridine riboside were prepared from their corresponding nad analogs . these compounds and several other nicotinamide riboside analogs were evaluated for their ability to support the growth of h. influenzae and for their ability to block the uptake of [ carbonyl-14c ] nicotinamide riboside by h. influenzae . 3-aminopyridine riboside blocked the uptake of [ carbonyl-14c ] nicotinamide riboside and inhibited the growth of h. influenzae when nad , nicotinamide mononucleotide , or nicotinamide riboside served as the v factor . the antibacterial activity of 3-aminopyridine riboside was found to be specific for h. influenzae but had no effect on the growth of staphylococcus aureus or escherichia coli . in additional experiments by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography , it was determined that whole cells of h. influenzae degrade 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide to 3-aminopyridine riboside , which is then internalized . inside the cell , 3-aminopyridine riboside has the ability to interfere with the growth of h. influenzae by an undetermined mechanism . 
activities of clarithromycin , sulfisoxazole , and rifabutin against mycobacterium avium complex multiplication within human macrophages . the activities of clarithromycin , sulfisoxazole , and rifabutin against three virulent strains of mycobacterium avium complex isolated from patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were evaluated in a model of intracellular infection . human monocyte-derived macrophages were infected at day 6 of culture with m. avium complex . intracellular bacteria were counted 60 min after inoculation . extra - and intracellular bacteria were counted at days 4 and 7 after inoculation . the concentrations used were 4 micrograms of clarithromycin per ml ( mics for the three strains , 4 , 4 , and 4 micrograms/ml ) , 50 micrograms of sulfisoxazole per ml ( mics , 50 , 25 , and 25 micrograms/ml ) , and 0.5 micrograms of rifabutin per ml ( mics , 2 , 0.5 , and 0.5 micrograms/ml ) . compared with controls , clarithromycin and rifabutin slowed the intracellular replication of the three strains ( at day 7 after inoculation , p was less than 0.01 for the first strain and less than 0.001 for the two others ) . sulfisoxazole was ineffective against the three strains . clarithromycin was as effective as rifabutin . clarithromycin plus rifabutin was as effective as each single agent . clarithromycin plus sulfisoxazole was as effective as clarithromycin alone . 
beta-lactamase production and susceptibilities to amoxicillin , amoxicillin-clavulanate , ticarcillin , ticarcillin-clavulanate , cefoxitin , imipenem , and metronidazole of 320 non-bacteroides fragilis bacteroides isolates and 129 fusobacteria from 28 u.s. centers . beta-lactamase production ( nitrocefin disk method ) and agar dilution susceptibility of amoxicillin , amoxicillin-clavulanate , ticarcillin , ticarcillin-clavulanate , cefoxitin , imipenem , and metronidazole were determined for 320 bacteroides species ( not bacteroides fragilis group ) and 129 fusobacteria from 28 u.s. centers . overall , 64.7 % of bacteroides species and 41.1 % of fusobacteria were beta-lactamase positive . among the bacteroides species , positivity rates were highest for b. bivius ( 85.0 % ) , followed by b. splanchnicus ( 83.3 % ) , b. eggerthii ( 77.8 % ) , and b. oralis ( 77.1 % ) ; 54.5 % of black-pigmented bacteroides species were beta-lactamase positive . among the fusobacteria , fusobacterium mortiferum showed the highest rate of beta-lactamase positivity ( 76.9 % ) . mics of amoxicillin ( 128 micrograms/ml ) and ticarcillin ( 64 micrograms/ml ) for 90 % of all beta-lactamase-positive strains were reduced to 4 and 2 micrograms/ml , respectively , with the addition of clavulanate . mics of amoxicillin and ticarcillin for 90 % of all beta-lactamase-negative strains were 1 and 4 micrograms/ml , respectively , and greater than or equal to 98.4 % of the strains were susceptible to the beta-lactams tested . of the beta-lactamase-producing strains , 45.9 % were susceptible to amoxicillin at less than or equal to 4 micrograms/ml and 93.4 % were susceptible to ticarcillin at less than or equal to 64 micrograms/ml ; the addition of clavulanate raised the rates to 90.4 and 100 % , respectively . all strains were susceptible to cefoxitin , imipenem , and metronidazole . the activity of amoxicillin against 29 beta-lactamase-producing strains ( 10 bacteroides species and 19 fusobacteria ) was not enhanced by the addition of clavulanate ; however , 82.7 % of these strains were susceptible to amoxicillin , and all were susceptible to ticarcillin . 
sch-39304 in prevention and treatment of disseminated candidiasis in persistently granulocytopenic rabbits . to investigate the potential use of sch-39304 for the prevention and treatment of disseminated candidiasis in granulocytopenic patients , we studied its in vivo antifungal activity as preventive , early , and late treatments in three models ( acute , subacute , and chronic ) of disseminated candidiasis in persistently granulocytopenic rabbits . sch-39304 was an effective as amphotericin b alone and fluconazole alone for the prevention of disseminated candidiasis . sch-39304 alone and fluconazole alone were as effective as amphotericin b plus flucytosine for early treatment of subacute disseminated candidiasis . when treatment was delayed for 5 days to establish chronic disseminated candidiasis , sch-39304 was less effective than amphotericin b plus flucytosine . in comparison with different treatment regimens , sch-39304 was more effective in early and preventive treatment . thus , sch-39304 was comparable to treatment control regimens in prevention and early treatment of subacute disseminated candidiasis . sch-39304 also was most effective in granulocytopenic rabbits with disseminated candidiasis when used for prevention or early treatment . 
activity of compound g2 isolated from alfalfa roots in experimental dermatophyte infection . compound g2 isolated from alfalfa roots was applied topically to skin lesions of guinea pigs experimentally infected with the dermatophyte trichophyton mentagrophytes var . granulare . after 12 to 15 applications , 80 % of the infected lesions were cured , as judged by clinical and microbial criteria , compared with 20 % of the untreated lesions which healed spontaneously ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
in vitro susceptibility of xanthomonas ( pseudomonas ) maltophilia to newer antimicrobial agents . the susceptibilities of 45 clinical and 3 environmental isolates of xanthomonas maltophilia to 14 antimicrobial agents was determined by broth microdilution . the newer quinolones pd117596 , pd117558 , pd127391 , a-56620 , amifloxacin , and fleroxacin were the most active agents tested , with 70 to 99 % of isolates being susceptible to these agents . all isolates were resistant to trospectomycin . the new aminoglycosides sch24120 and sch22591 were active against 12 and 1 % of isolates , respectively . 
comparison of cilofungin and amphotericin b for therapy of murine candidiasis . we compared the efficacies of cilofungin and amphotericin b treatment in a murine model of disseminated candidiasis . three different dosages of each drug plus controls were evaluated . statistically improved survival was noted only among mice treated with 1 mg of amphotericin b per kg of body weight ( p less than 0.05 ) . while all amphotericin b regimens and the two lower-dosage cilofungin regimens significantly reduced yeast cell counts in kidneys compared with the controls , the amphotericin b-treated mice had a significantly higher percentage of sterile kidneys following therapy compared with those treated with cilofungin ( p = 0.0001 ) . 
management of gastroenteritis . childhood gastroenteritis remains a common reason for admission to british paediatric units , although the severity of the disease appears to be diminishing in recent years . we studied 215 infants and children with gastroenteritis admitted consecutively to four paediatric units in south wales in order to determine the severity of the disease , the organisms isolated , the frequency of complications , and the adequacy of management before admission . stool pathogens were isolated in 125 ( 58 % ) patients ( viruses in 65 , bacteria in 30 , and protozoa in 19 , with multiple infection found in 11 ) . there was a low incidence of morbidity and complications , but prolonged diarrhoea ( postenteritis syndrome ) was present in 24 ( 11 % ) cases and 77 ( 36 % ) had received inappropriate treatment before admission . contemporary gastroenteritis is thus a relatively mild disease in the acute phase , but management before admission to hospital is often inadequate , and prolonged diarrhoea may be a feature in a considerable number of cases . 
an unusual cause of thoracic mass . a previously well 10 year old boy presented with scoliosis , a mass in the chest wall , and a pleural effusion . chest radiography showed the triad of chronic consolidation , pleural effusion , and rib periostitis . investigations confirmed thoracic actinomycosis . tissue spread was evaluated by computed tomography . it was successfully treated with benzylpenicillin , which was later replaced by clindamycin . 
the process of microbial translocation . the process of microbial translocation was studied using candida albicans , escherichia coli , or endotoxin instilled into thiry-vella loops of thermally injured guinea pigs and rats . translocation of c. albicans occurred by direct penetration of enterocytes by a unique process different from classical phagocytosis . translocation between enterocytes was not observed . internalization was associated with a disturbance of the plasma membrane and brush border , but most internalized organisms were not surrounded by a plasma membrane . passage of the candida into the lamina propria appeared to be associated with disruption of the basal membrane with extrusion of cytoplasm of the cell and candida . organisms in the lamina propria were commonly phagocytized by macrophages but also were found free in lymphatics and blood vessels . translocation of e. coli and endotoxin also occurred directly through enterocytes rather than between them , but translocated endotoxin diffused through the lamina propria and muscular wall of the bowel wall by passing between rather than through the myocytes . these descriptive phenomena provide new insight into the role of the enterocyte and intestinal immune cells in the translocation process . 
the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in nonulcer dyspepsia . importance of stratification according to age helicobacter pylori ( formerly campylobacter pylori ) is causally related to active antral gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal and gastric ulcers . however , the relationship of h pylori to nonulcer dyspepsia is less clear . we determined the presence of h pylori in unselected patients who were undergoing upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy , and we found a prevalence of 37 % in 110 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia that was similar to previous data . patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who had h pylori were found to be significantly older than patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who did not have h pylori . in addition , when stratified according to age , we detected an increased prevalence of h pylori in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia with increasing age , similar to that reported for asymptomatic control populations . this finding casts doubt as to the causal role of h pylori for most patients with nonulcer dyspepsia and stresses the importance of considering epidemiologic factors , such as age , when evaluating the role of h pylori in specific disease states . 
emergence of ciprofloxacin resistance in nosocomial methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus isolates . resistance during ciprofloxacin plus rifampin therapy for methicillin-resistant s aureus colonization . we initiated a randomized , single-blinded trial of ciprofloxacin plus rifampin vs sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim plus rifampin in the therapy for patients who underwent colonization with methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ) . patients who were colonized with mrsa received 2 weeks of either regimen . the study was terminated after the enrollment of 21 subjects due to the recognition of ciprofloxacin resistance in 10 of 21 new mrsa isolates during the last 2 months of the study . five of the 10 patients with ciprofloxacin-resistant mrsa isolates had never received ciprofloxacin . long-term ( 6-month ) eradication had been achieved in only three of 11 ciprofloxacin plus rifampin and four of 10 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim plus rifampin recipients . the use of this new fluoroquinolone for the eradication of mrsa colonization is usually not effective and may risk the development of ciprofloxacin resistance in mrsa within the hospital environment . 
desensitization in the management of vancomycin hypersensitivity . vancomycin is the preferred antimicrobial agent in the treatment of methicillin-resistant staphylococcal infections . one of the well-known hypersensitivity reactions to this agent is the " red-man syndrome , " which is believed to involve drug-induced histamine release in certain individuals . although rate and/or dose reductions may be effective in some cases , some hypersensitivity reactions necessitate the discontinuation of vancomycin . in this article one patient is described who developed vancomycin-associated reactions consistent with the red-man syndrome despite having tolerated vancomycin administration previously . this case was managed by sequential increments in vancomycin administration over several days that allowed for therapeutic doses of the drug to be administered . prior to desensitization , vancomycin administration at a lowered rate and dose was unsuccessfully attempted , despite the presence of combination antihistamine therapy . a loss of skin prick test reactivity to vancomycin was demonstrated after successful desensitization . this desensitization method may be useful in managing certain refractory cases of vancomycin hypersensitivity . 
immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy is as safe as mastectomy alone . we evaluated wound complications and potential risk factors after mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction and compared them with similar data after modified radical mastectomy . the incidences of infection , seroma , hematoma , and epidermolysis were compared among 395 patients ( 305 with modified radical mastectomies and 90 with mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction ) from virginia mason medical center , seattle , wash , between 1983 and 1989 . obesity , age ( 60 years or older ) , smoking , antibiotics , and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors . there were more wound complications in the modified radical mastectomy group ( 48 % vs 31 % ) , and specifically , more seromas ( 30 % vs 13 % ) . in the modified radical mastectomy group , age of 60 years or older was associated with seroma and infection , drainage greater than 30 ml per day ( at time of drain removal ) with seroma , and smoking with epidermolysis . in the mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction group , obesity was associated with seroma and epidermolysis . we conclude that mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction appears to be as safe as modified radical mastectomy alone with respect to wound complications . 
reoperative surgery for the morbidly obese . a university experience . patients who undergo surgery for morbid obesity are often subjected to reoperation for a wide array of indications . to evaluate outcome following revisional procedures , we reviewed the records of 32 such patients treated at ucla between april 1986 and may 1989 . twenty-five women ( 78 % ) and 7 men ( 22 % ) with a mean age of 44 years underwent 76 reoperations ( 2.4 per patient ) for complications of prior obesity surgery . indications for initial surgical revision consisted primarily of metabolic derangements ( 12 patients ) and weight-related problems ( 11 patients ) . in contrast , indications for the patients ' final surgical procedure were commonly for bowel obstruction ( 41 % ) , intra-abdominal sepsis ( 12 % ) , and gastrointestinal bleeding ( 6 % ) . following initial revision , 23 patients ( 71.8 % ) required further surgery for major complications and four patients died ( 12.5 % ) . while initial revisions are frequently indicated for metabolic problems , final reoperations are more frequently undertaken for urgent , life-threatening complications . revisional procedures for morbid obesity should be carefully considered , and the potential for major complications and/or death should be weighted heavily against proposed benefits . 
buccal cellulitis . buccal cellulitis ( bc ) is an innocuous appearing infection of the cheek that is found in children and has a high incidence of concomitant bacteremia . typically , the child is younger than 12 months and has a 2 to 8 hour prodrome of coryza and fever before developing the cellulitis on the cheek . a purplish hue on the cellulitic region is highly suggestive of hemophilus influenzae bacteremia . the differential diagnosis is reviewed . a complete blood count , blood culture , and cellulitis aspirate culture , should be obtained on all patients with bc . meningitis may be present despite the lack of meningeal signs . a lumbar puncture should be performed on all children at risk for bacteremic bc . the vast majority of these children are bacteremic and require parenteral antibiotics . a typical case of bc is presented and its management is reviewed . 
intraocular pressure changes and postural changes of intraocular pressure in experimentally induced hansen 's disease of rhesus , mangabey , and african green monkeys . in our long term evaluation of patients with hansen 's disease we have frequently found reduction of their intraocular pressure . furthermore , we noted changes in their intraocular pressure on change of posture . to determine if these changes have any significance we measured the intraocular pressures of 24 experimentally infected and 39 control monkeys in both sitting and reclining positions . we found significant reduction of intraocular pressure in 66.7 % compared with controls in the sitting position , and a significant increase in intraocular pressure in 79 % when checked first in the sitting then in the reclining position . we offer a possible pathophysiological explanation as to why the changes occur . 
seven-day administration of recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor to newborn rats : modulation of neonatal neutrophilia , myelopoiesis , and group b streptococcus sepsis . single-pulse administration of rhg-colony-stimulating factor ( csf ) to neonatal rats was previously demonstrated to induce peripheral neutrophilia and modulate bone marrow ( bm ) neutrophil storage and proliferative pools ( nsp + npp ) . in this study , we investigated the prolonged effects of 7 days of rhg-csf therapy ( 5 micrograms/kg/per day ) . sprague-dawley newborn rats ( less than or equal to 24 hours ) were injected intraperitoneally ( ip ) ( daily for 7 days ) with rhg-csf or phosphate-buffered saline/human serum albumin ( pbs/hsa ) . rhg-csf induced a significant early and late peripheral neutrophilia : 6,905 + / - 1,625 ( day 1 ) and 9,223 + / - 515 microl ( day 7 ) v 1,275 + / - 90/microl ( p less than or equal to .0001 ) . in addition , 7 days of rhg-csf resulted in a significant increase in the bm nsp : 3,247 + / - 190/microl v 1,677 + / - 339/microl ( p less than or equal to .001 ) . there was , however , no depletion or significant change in the bm npp . seven days of rhg-csf also induced a mild increase in bm cfu-gm colony formation ( p less than or equal to .01 ) . there was , however , no significant change in liver/spleen cfu-gm colonies or in the cfu-gm proliferative rate in either the bm or liver/spleen cultures . finally , 7 days of prophylactic rhg-csf therapy resulted in a synergistic response with antibiotic therapy and significantly modulated the mortality rate during experimental group b streptococcal sepsis ( gbs ) ( 100 % v 50 % ) ( gvsc ) ( p less than or equal to .001 ) . pulse rhg-csf administered at 6 hours or 18 hours after gbs inoculation , however , failed to act synergistically with antibiotics to improve survival or prevent peripheral neutropenia . this study suggests that 7 days of prophylactic rhg-csf therapy induces peripheral neutrophilia , myeloid maturation , increases neutrophil bm reserves and also may provide immunologic enhancement of neonatal host defense during experimental gbs in term neonatal rats . 
effect of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor on neutropenia due to chemotherapy for non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . the authors administered recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( rhg-csf ) to 16 patients with advanced non-hodgkin 's lymphoma treated with combination chemotherapy . groups of three to five patients were treated with 50 , 100 , 200 , and 400 micrograms/m2 per day of rhg-csf by intravenous infusion for 14 days , beginning 3 days after chemotherapy . there was a strong linear relationship between the dose and the area under the curve over this dose range . the rhg-csf was rapidly cleared from serum , with a mean half-life of 5.97 hours for the second phase ( t1/2 ) . in patients treated with a dose of more than 100 micrograms/m2 per day , the duration of neutropenia ( p less than 0.01 ) and the duration of fever ( p less than 0.05 ) were significantly decreased . the rhg-csf was well tolerated and the only clinical observation that appeared relating to rhg-csf administration was slight bone pain . this study strongly suggests that an optimum dose of rhg-csf in patients after chemotherapy is 100 to 200 micrograms/m2 . our study shows that rhg-csf is a clinically useful drug for patients treated with myelosuppressive chemotherapy . 
unusual case of pacemaker lead migration . pulmonary artery migration of pacemaker lead is rare and may result in pulmonary emboli originating from the thrombus around the infected catheter and causing multiple pulmonary infarcts . we report an unusual case of pacemaker lead migration to the right pulmonary artery with septic pulmonary embolism . while being treated with intravenous cefuroxamine , the patient had spontaneous migration of the lead to the left pulmonary artery with subsequent left pulmonary embolism . 
splenic septic emboli in endocarditis . the significance of septic emboli to the spleen is inferred by the frequency of septic emboli in general seen in patients with left-sided infective endocarditis who are referred for valve replacement . to determine the proper management of splenic infarcts and abscess due to septic emboli , we retrospectively reviewed the records of 108 patients with left-sided endocarditis who underwent valvular surgery at the university of illinois hospital from 1980 through 1988 . intravenous drug abuse was the etiology in 68 % ( n = 73 ) . the incidence of splenic infarcts and abscess was 19 % ( n = 20 ) , but an incidental finding of splenic infarcts was found in 38 % ( n = 11 ) of 29 asymptomatic patients who had computed tomograms . streptococci and staphylococci were the causative organisms in 85 % ( n = 17 ) . localized findings were absent in 90 % of splenic infarcts and abscesses . abdominal computed tomograms were diagnostic of the sequelae of splenic septic emboli in 100 % . no patient had intra-abdominal bleeding complications associated with cardiopulmonary bypass . splenectomy was performed in 50 % ( n = 10 ) of patients 3-24 days ( mean , 11.2 days ) after valve replacement . indications for splenectomy included persistent sepsis in 60 % ( n = 6 ) , large ( greater than 2 cm ) and peripheral lesions in 30 % ( n = 3 ) , and splenic rupture in 10 % ( n = 1 ) . perioperative mortality of patients who underwent splenectomy was 30 % ( n = 3 ) . the following conclusions can be drawn : 1 ) splenic septic embolus is common in endocarditis . 2 ) abdominal computed tomography should be performed for all patients . 
total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus . a retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus . the overall infection rate was 7 % , with an overall revision rate of 10 % and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years . wound complications were present in 12 % of the tkas . the rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients . therefore , maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having tka to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis . 
prevention of nosocomial lung infection in ventilated patients : use of an antimicrobial pharyngeal nonabsorbable paste . a comparative , prospective study was made of the incidence of infection in the lower airway ( purulent tracheobronchitis and pneumonia ) in long-term patients who were mechanically ventilated due to respiratory failure of noninfectious origin . twenty-eight patients were randomly allocated into a study group ( a , n = 13 ) in which a nonabsorbable paste containing 2 % tobramycin , 2 % amphotericin b , and 2 % polymyxin e was administered locally to decontaminate the oropharynx , and a control group ( b , n = 15 ) in which a paste without antibiotics was also applied to the oropharynx . we studied the effectiveness of the prophylactic technique in decontaminating the oropharynx and trachea of organisms potentially pathogenic for the respiratory system . decontamination was successful in ten of 13 patients in group a vs. one of 15 patients in group b ( p less than .001 ) . the results demonstrated a lower rate of infection in the lower respiratory tract in the study group ( three patients with tracheobronchitis and no pneumonias ) than in the control group ( three patients with tracheobronchitis and 11 with pneumonia ) , the difference between both being highly significant ( p less than .001 ) . two ( 15 % ) patients in group b developed sepsis of pulmonary origin . none of the patients on prophylactic treatment developed this complication . although the overall mortality was similar in both groups ( group a , 30 % vs. group b , 33 % ) , we believe that infection contributed to a great extent to the death of two of five patients in group b. we conclude that nosocomial pneumonia , which is a frequent complication in critically ill patients on mechanical ventilation , could be prevented by local application of nonabsorbable antibiotics to the oropharynx . 
ringer 's acetate and dextran-70 with or without hypertonic saline in endotoxin-induced shock in pigs . the effects of ringer 's acetate , 6 % dextran-70 , 7.5 % nacl , and the combination of 7.5 % nacl and dextran-70 were tested in resuscitation from endotoxin shock induced by continuous iv infusion of escherichia coli endotoxin in pigs . after about 3 h , a reproducible shock state was achieved and treatment was started , governed by the left atrial pressure . the hypertonic solutions ( 7.5 % nacl and 7.5 % nacl in dextran-70 ) did not show any overall advantages over the isotonic solutions ( ringer 's acetate and dextran-70 ) . only transient beneficial hemodynamic effects lasting less than 30 min after infusion were seen . when dextran-70 was administered , cardiovascular function was markedly improved and oxygen delivery ( do2 ) and survival were significantly higher compared with the crystalloid groups ( ringer 's acetate and 7.5 % nacl ) . administration of large amounts of ringer 's acetate resulted in an immediate deterioration of pulmonary function . it was difficult to elevate left atrial pressure or even to keep it at baseline level , and cardiac index was only transiently increased . the overall result was a deterioration of do2 and poor survival compared with the dextran-70 treated pigs . we conclude that dextran-70 is superior to ringer 's acetate in resuscitation from endotoxin-induced shock in pigs . furthermore , we found no role for the use of hypertonic saline , alone or in combination with dextran , in the treatment of this type of prolonged endotoxin shock . 
pulmonary manifestations of disseminated cryptococcosis in patients with aids . forty-eight patients with disseminated cryptococcosis and aids were retrospectively studied to define the pulmonary manifestations . cryptococcus neoformans ( cn ) was first isolated from a pulmonary site in 12 patients . disseminated disease was subsequently documented in all these patients . symptoms and roentgenographic manifestations ( normal , nodular/circumscribed infiltrates , pleural effusions , lobar consolidation ) were diverse . interstitial infiltrates predicted the presence of another opportunistic lung infection besides cryptococcosis in five patients ( three untreated and two treated patients ) . infectious causes other than cryptococcosis were established by culture and clinical course in five of the ten patients who developed chest roentgenographic abnormalities during amphotericin b therapy . endobronchial abnormalities were identified in four patients at bronchoscopy . bronchoalveolar lavage ( 9/9 ) and pleural fluid ( 3/3 ) cultures were sensitive tests for detection of pulmonary involvement with cn . 
quality of well-being before and after antibiotic treatment of pulmonary exacerbation in patients with cystic fibrosis . general quality of life has only recently been measured with an objective tool in patients with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) , and there have been no reported attempts to document changes in patients ' overall well-being over time , as patients deteriorate or respond to intervention . we applied the quality of well-being scale ( qwb ) in 28 patients with cf before and after a two-week course of oral ciprofloxacin used to treat pulmonary exacerbations . there were significant correlations between changes in qwb and various pulmonary function test results ; qwb vs fev1 : r = 0.4 , p less than 0.03 ; qwb vs fvc : r = 0.5 , p less than 0.01 ; and qwb vs sao2 : r = 0.4 , p less than 0.05 . thus , the qwb can track changes in general well-being in cf patients over a brief time and detect changes associated with pulmonary exacerbation and its treatment . 
subpleural mononuclear cell infiltration . significance in the differential diagnosis of pleuritis showing nonspecific histologic findings . to determine if patients who had lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion and a pleural biopsy without any specific findings could be histopathologically differentiated between those with tuberculous and nontuberculous pleuritis , we histologically re-evaluated the pleural biopsies of all patients whose pleural effusion was predominant with lymphocytes and contained no malignant cells . a total of 40 patients with a nonspecific histologic findings of pleural biopsy specimen were categorized based on their ultimate diagnosis as having tuberculous ( n = 15 ) , carcinomatous ( n = 10 ) or nontuberculous , benign pleuritis ( n = 15 ) . the pleural biopsy specimen of patients with nontuberculous , benign pleuritis frequently showed a band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate ( 10 out of 15 patients ) , while the same finding was infrequent in those with tuberculous pleuritis ( 0 out of 15 , p = 0.0001 ) and pleuritis associated with carcinoma ( three out of 10 , p = 0.082 ) . based on these results , the presence of band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate in pleural biopsy specimens of patients with lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion suggests that the pleuritis is nontuberculous in its nature . 
anti-kveim monoclonal antibody . new monoclonal antibody reacting to epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas . a monoclonal antibody to the sarcoid granulomagenic agent contained in kveim suspension was prepared by immunizing mice with kveim suspension . one monoclonal antibody ( ihy-1 ) that reacted with the epithelioid cells in sarcoid granulomas on immunoperoxidase technique was selected . the immunoperoxidase technique was used to compare this monoclonal antibody 's binding to sarcoidosis - or tuberculosis-affected lymph nodes . ihy-1 is a monoclonal antibody of igm class . this antibody did not react to erythrocytes , lymphocytes , monocytes , alveolar macrophages , or the macrophage-derived cell lines such as u-973 and kg-1 . it reacted to granuloma epithelioid cells of sarcoidosis-affected lymph nodes . the monoclonal antibody also reacted positively to epithelioid cells in tuberculous granulomas although the reaction was not as strong . since ihy-1 was found to bind to both types of granulomas , this suggests that the epithelioid cells in sarcoidosis have antigenicity common to the epithelioid cells in tuberculosis . 
occult fatal pulmonary embolism with disseminated intravascular coagulation . an unusual case masquerading as miliary tuberculosis . we report a fatal case of occult pulmonary embolism complicating bronchogenic carcinoma which presented with rapidly progressive pulmonary miliary shadows and respiratory failure . a clotting profile abnormality compatible with disseminated intravascular coagulation was noted . postmortem examination showed extensive clots occluding the major pulmonary vessels and areas of pulmonary infarcts . histologic examination revealed fibrin deposition in the microvasculature compatible with dic . cases of pulmonary embolism with dic have previously been reported , but this is the first case with pathologic confirmation . thus , unusual presentation with diffuse lung shadow and dic should not deter the clinician from correct diagnosis so that appropriate treatment can be promptly started . 
septic pulmonary emboli . a rare cause of bilateral pneumothorax in drug abusers . an intravenous drug abuser presented with bilateral pneumothorax . this is a previously unreported ( to our knowledge ) complication of septic pulmonary emboli secondary to right-sided endocarditis . this possibility must be considered in the differential diagnosis of pneumothorax in drug addicts . 
yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the transverse colon . report of a case . yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the bowel is a rare entity . only five cases have previously been reported -- none in the surgical literature . a unique presentation for yersinia infection , abscess of the transverse colon , is described , and the literature of y. enterocolitica intestinal perforation and abscess is reviewed . 
infections in alcoholic patients . alcoholic patients have an increased susceptibility to certain bacterial infections . among the more important of these infections are pneumonia , tuberculosis , spontaneous peritonitis , and bacteremia . this susceptibility is caused by alteration of immune function and mechanical defenses and are the sequel of chronic alcoholism , most notably cirrhosis . in many infections , morbidity is increased in alcoholics , with the course of the illness being more severe and complications more frequent . assessment of the alcoholic patient with suspected infection should , therefore , be thorough and treatment prompt . 
host response to mycobacterial infection in the alcoholic rat . animals , chronically treated with alcohol , were inoculated with mycobacteria ( bacillus calmette-guerin , 10.2 x 10 ( 6 ) organisms ) into the spleen to produce a granulomatous hepatitis . before infection , chronic alcohol ingestion was associated with a depressed skin test response to phytohemagglutinin , 71.7 % of baseline ( p = 0.009 ) . mycobacterial ( bacillus calmette-guerin ) infection stimulated phytohemagglutinin skin test response to 417 % of baseline in controls and 299 % in alcoholics ( p less than 0.001 ) . the hepatic granuloma response was altered with smaller but more numerous granulomas ( mean + / - sem , 81.2 + / - 1.5 microns2 of area with a frequency of 1.8 granulomas per field in alcoholics vs. 129.8 + / - 5.71 microns2 and 1.2 granulomas per field in controls ; p less than 0.001 ) . these changes were associated with a 10-fold increase in colony-forming units per gram of liver ( 54.5 + / - 18.2 in alcoholics vs. 5.6 + / - 1.83 in controls ; p = 0.0006 ) . this model offers precise parameters for host response to infection and indicates that alcohol significantly impairs the clearing capacity for mycobacteria from the liver . 
infection control in the nursing home : the physician 's role . infection control in the nursing home or long-term care facility is an increasingly complex activity . the high rates ( approximately 15 % ) and special risks ( group activities , crowding ) for nosocomial infection demand special attention by attending physicians . some specific responsibilities include : recognition of infection ; knowledge and use of basic infection control principles ; appropriate antibiotic use ; review of immunizations ; facilitation of communications among office , hospital , and long-term care facility ; and involvement with infection control program ( s ) . 
transfusion risks . hepatitis remains the most serious transfusion risk , in terms of incidence and severity . transfusion-associated aids , hemolytic reactions , trali , and anaphylaxis are severe problems that occur relatively rarely , while febrile reactions and mild allergic reactions are common but not serious . the key to avoiding all these complications is autotransfusion ( see the article " autologous transfusion " in this issue ) . although intraoperative scavenging became available in many centers in the united states in the 1980s , it is hoped that pre-deposit autotransfusion will also become widely utilized in the next decade . 
the patellofemoral joint after total knee arthroplasty without patellar resurfacing . one hundred total knee replacements with a total condylar prosthesis and without patellar resurfacing were followed for a minimum of two years . eighty-four per cent of the knees were affected by osteoarthrosis . graded according to the knee-rating system of the hospital for special surgery , there were eighteen excellent , fifty-three good , eighteen fair , and eleven poor results . at the most recent follow-up , twenty-nine knees ( 29 per cent ) , nine of which were affected by rheumatoid arthritis , were still painful in the patellofemoral area . the height and weight of the patient definitely influenced the amount of patellofemoral pain postoperatively . small patients who had osteoarthrosis were exceptionally free of pain , regardless of sex , age , or level of activity . it seems that the best approach to patellofemoral replacement includes resurfacing of the patella in all patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and in patients who have osteoarthrosis if they have preoperative patellofemoral pain , are more than 160 centimeters tall , weigh more than sixty kilograms , and have advanced changes in the patella at the time of the operation . 
treatment of infection after total knee arthroplasty by debridement with retention of the components . thirty-one total knee arthroplasties were followed by infection in twenty-seven patients who were subsequently treated with debridement , retention of the components , and intravenous administration of antibiotics . the results were reviewed retrospectively in an effort to evaluate the function of the prostheses that had been salvaged successfully and to identify the causes of failure of those around which an infection had recurred . at the most recent follow-up ( average duration , 8.8 years ) , infection had recurred around twenty-four ( 77 per cent ) of the thirty-one arthroplasties . seven knees ( 23 per cent ) remained free of infection . function remained satisfactory , although revision was subsequently needed in two knees for reasons other than infection . one cause of failure was the duration of the infection before debridement . this averaged twenty-one days for the seven knees in which the prosthetic arthroplasty had been salvaged and thirty-six days for the twenty-four knees in which treatment had failed . another cause of failure was the type of organism : staphylococcus aureus had caused the infection in fourteen ( 58 per cent ) of the twenty-four knees in which the treatment failed but in only two of the seven knees in which the prosthetic arthroplasty was salvaged . in addition , eight infections in the first group were resistant to penicillin , whereas both infections in the second group were sensitive to penicillin . the four infections with gram-negative organisms in the series were all in knees in which the treatment failed . all six hinged prostheses that were used failed . 
amputation or limb-lengthening for partial or total absence of the fibula . thirty-two patients who had ablation of the foot by the syme or boyd technique for partial or total absence of the fibula , with subsequent fitting of a prosthesis , were compared with eleven patients who had lengthening of the lower limb by the wagner method , to assess the long-term results of each procedure . the final results were evaluated on the basis of pain , limp , limb-length discrepancy , level of physical activity , and satisfaction of the patient . of the thirty-two patients who had an amputation , twenty-eight ( 88 per cent ) had a satisfactory result , compared with only six ( 55 per cent ) of the eleven patients who had limb-lengthening . the amount of inequality between the lower limbs was classified as follows : group i -- the foot of the shorter extremity was at the distal third of the contralateral , normal limb , and the percentage of shortening was 15 per cent or less ; group ii -- the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the middle third of the contralateral , normal limb , and the percentage of shortening was between 16 and 25 per cent ; and group iii -- the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the proximal third of the contralateral , normal limb , and the percentage of shortening was greater than 26 per cent . lengthening was best suited for patients in group i who had stable hips , knees , and ankles and a plantigrade foot . patients in groups ii and iii were best served by ablation of the foot and fitting of a prosthesis . 
an unusual late complication following surgical repair of tetralogy of fallot . a case is presented of extrusion of right ventricular outflow tract patch material through a mediastino-cutaneous fistula occurring five years after repair of tetralogy of fallot . the focus of the mediastinal infection was an infected epicardial pacemaker electrode placed at the time of initial surgery . subsequent echocardiographic studies showed minimal right ventricular outflow tract or pulmonary arterial dilatation , and , with no further surgery , the child is well after two and a half years follow-up . 
use of latex agglutination technique for detecting legionella pneumophila ( serogroup 1 ) antibodies . following the outbreak of legionnaires ' disease in stafford in 1985 , 500 serum samples were submitted to the indirect immunofluorescence antibody test and a latex agglutination . latex agglutination using ultrasonically disrupted legionella pneumophila antigens coupled to latex particles , proved a rapid , simple method for detecting circulating antibodies to l pneumophila in a one minute slide latex agglutination test . there was good correlation with the indirect immunofluorescence antibody test ( ifat ) , and the specificity and sensitivity with respect to a diagnostic result were 98.3 % and 97.6 % , respectively , using a series of well characterised sera . the latex agglutination test seems well suited as a screening test for presumptive cases of legionnaires ' disease ; the latex reagent is easy to prepare and seems to remain stable at 4 degrees c for up to six months . 
history of antifungals . until two to three decades ago , only a few drugs were available for the treatment of fungal infections . the status of antifungal therapy changed dramatically in the late 1960s with the introduction of newer broader spectrum agents , such as the iodinated trichlorophenols and the imidazoles , that acted by disruption of the fungal cell membrane . some of the more recently developed broad-spectrum antifungal drugs include the triazoles terconazole , itraconazole , and fluconazole and the dimethylmorpholine amorolfine . the allylamines represent one of the newest classes of compounds shown to be effective in the management of fungal disorders . the two members of this unique chemical class that have been studied clinically , naftifine and terbinafine , are effective against a wide spectrum of fungal organisms . terbinafine has the added advantage of both topical and oral activity . 
problems of resistant dermatophytes . recalcitrant fungal infections are defined as infections that are difficult or impossible to eradicate despite seemingly adequate treatment with appropriate oral or parenteral antibiotics . relative or absolute microbial resistance is only one of the many causes of recalcitrance . others include failure of the patient to comply with the prescribed treatment regimen , drug degradation in the liver , drug-drug interactions , reabsorption or washout of the drug from the stratum corneum , and failure of the drug to reach the stratum corneum . excretion in the eccrine sweat is the principal pathway by which griseofulvin and ketoconazole , the two currently available oral antifungal agents , are delivered to the stratum corneum . measures that promote delivery of these drugs to this site by enhancing sweating and minimizing drug run-off and absorption onto clothing may aid in optimizing the therapeutic response to these agents . 
treatment of chronic tinea pedis ( athlete 's foot type ) with topical terbinafine . twenty-seven patients with chronic tinea pedis , athlete 's foot type , were enrolled in a randomized , double-blind trial of topical treatment with terbinafine 1 % cream versus its vehicle ( placebo ) . patients were examined weekly during 4 weeks of twice-daily treatment and at follow-up 2 weeks after the conclusion of therapy . no adverse events were reported in either treatment group . drug efficacy was evaluated in 22 patients , of whom nine ( 41 % ) were treated with terbinafine and 13 ( 59 % ) with placebo . analysis of combined mycologic and clinical results showed that terbinafine was significantly more effective than placebo at the end of therapy ( 78 % vs zero ) and at the 2-week follow-up ( 89 % vs zero ) ( p less than or equal to 0.001 at both intervals . 
a clinical trial of topical terbinafine ( a new allylamine antifungal ) in the treatment of tinea pedis . twenty-three patients were enrolled in a randomized , double-blind trial of terbinafine 1 % cream compared with placebo vehicle in the treatment of tinea pedis . of the 20 patients who were evaluated for efficacy , 10 received terbinafine and 10 received placebo . except for the terbinafine-treated patients being an average of 11 years older than the patients receiving placebo and the median duration of disease being 6 weeks longer in the placebo group , the two groups were demographically and clinically similar . results of mycologic tests and clinical findings showed terbinafine to be significantly more effective than placebo in the treatment of tinea pedis . significantly more terbinafine-treated patients than placebo-treated patients showed conversion to negative culture and microscopy at end of therapy and a significant reduction in scored signs and symptoms . overall efficacy at follow-up ( combined mycologic and clinical findings ) was also significantly greater in the terbinafine group ( 78 % ) than in the placebo group ( zero ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . unexplained elevation of liver function test results was noted in three placebo-treated patients and in one terbinafine-treated patient , but these changes were not considered clinically relevant or drug related . 
efficacy and tolerability of topical terbinafine in the treatment of tinea cruris . thirty men with clinical and mycologic evidence of tinea cruris were enrolled in a controlled , randomized , double-blind trial comparing terbinafine 1 % cream and its cream vehicle as placebo . patients applied the test medications to the affected area twice daily for 2 weeks . therapeutic response was evaluable in 18 patients after each week of treatment and at a follow-up visit 2 weeks after therapy ended . at each visit , terbinafine was found to be more effective than the cream vehicle in the reduction of the signs and symptoms of infection and in the conversion of culture and microscopy findings to negative or normal . at the end of treatment , therapy was effective in 67 % of the nine terbinafine-treated patients compared with only 11 % of the nine placebo-treated patients . at the follow-up examination , efficacy rates were 78 % in the terbinafine treatment group and 33 % in the placebo group -- a difference of borderline statistical significance ( p = 0.077 ) . possible reasons for this result may include the higher incidence of chronic disease in the terbinafine group and the large number of patients who were classified as delayed exclusions because of negative initial culture for dermatophytes . no side effects or significant alterations in laboratory or hematologic tests were observed in either treatment group . 
treatment of tinea cruris with topical terbinafine . twenty-three patients were enrolled in a randomized , double-blind trial of terbinafine 1 % cream versus its vehicle ( placebo ) in the treatment of tinea cruris . one patient had a negative initial culture and was excluded , and two patients were dropouts , one because of poor study compliance ( terbinafine ) and one because of an adverse event ( placebo ) . twenty patients were examined for efficacy of treatment ( 9 terbinafine-treated , 11 placebo-treated ) . both groups were similar in age , sex , duration of disease , prior therapy , size and location of lesion , infecting organism , and predisposing factors . terbinafine 1 % cream was more effective than vehicle cream in the reduction of the signs and symptoms of tinea cruris . in addition , there was a higher conversion rate to negative culture and normal microscopy findings in the terbinafine-treated group . clinical results combined with evaluation of mycologic tests at end of therapy showed terbinafine to be a rapid and significantly more effective treatment for tinea cruris than placebo ( 78 % vs 18 % cure rate , respectively ) . follow-up cure rates confirmed these findings ( 89 % and 18 % , respectively ) . no significant adverse events occurred during terbinafine treatment . 
treatment of chronic moccasin-type tinea pedis with terbinafine : a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . terbinafine is an orally and topically active fungicidal drug of the allylamine series . its oral efficacy at 125 mg taken twice daily was evaluated in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study in moccasin-type tinea pedis . the study was conducted simultaneously in two centers and consisted of 41 evaluable cases ( 23 terbinafine , 18 placebo ) . mycologic cure and near to complete clearing of signs and symptoms were obtained in 59 % of the terbinafine-treated patients after 6 weeks of treatment and in 65 % at 2 weeks after treatment . corresponding efficacy for placebo-treated patients was zero at both evaluations . side effects in both groups were minimal . we conclude that terbinafine is well tolerated and highly effective in moccasin-type tinea pedis . 
oral terbinafine versus griseofulvin in the treatment of moccasin-type tinea pedis . the safety and effectiveness of oral terbinafine , 125 mg twice daily , and griseofulvin , 250 mg twice daily , in patients with moccasin-type tinea pedis were examined in a double-blind randomized trial . at the end of the 6-week treatment period , both a clinical and mycologic cure or a mycologic cure with minimal signs of infection was noted in 12 ( 75 % ) of the 16 terbinafine-treated patients compared with only 3 ( 27 % ) of the 12 patients treated with griseofulvin . the overall response rate 2 weeks after the completion of treatment was 88 % in the terbinafine-treated group and 45 % in the griseofulvin-treated group . when contacted again 6 to 15 months after completion of the study , 94 % of the terbinafine-treated patients reported sustained clearing of tinea pedis , and 88 % of those with nail involvement at the time of treatment reported improvement . in contrast , tinea pedis remained cured in only 30 % of the patients who had received griseofulvin , and onychomycosis improved in only 14 % . 
eosinophilic pustular folliculitis : fungal folliculitis ? eosinophilic pustular folliculitis is a rare condition with no known cause . however , a fungal cause is suggested by ( 1 ) tinea-like annular lesions , ( 2 ) initial clinical consideration of fungal folliculitis in many reported cases , ( 3 ) an association with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , and ( 4 ) an association with scaly and vesiculopustular lesions of palms and soles . we report a case histologically identical to eosinophilic pustular folliculitis but in which hyphal fungal organisms were demonstrated in one of the involved hair follicles . 
leprotic involvement of peripheral nerves in the absence of skin lesions . case report and literature review . in the absence of clinically apparent cutaneous lesions , primarily neural leprosy is uncommon . primarily neural leprosy presents clinically as a peripheral neuropathy that most frequently affects motor nerves and that occasionally involves sensory nerves as well . the long incubation period for leprosy and its occurrence outside endemic areas often lead to delayed diagnosis . we present a case of glove and stocking hypoesthesia , weakness of the flexor muscle of the right great toe , palpable thickening of the right popliteal nerve , and hypoesthetic but normal-appearing areas on the back , which developed in a trinidadian immigrant who lived in canada for 16 years . a skin biopsy specimen obtained from a visibly normal but hypoesthetic area on the back demonstrated a few acid-fast bacteria in small dermal nerves , in arrector pili smooth muscle , and in rare perivascular histiocytes , associated with a sparse mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate . the patient responded well to therapy with dapsone , rifampin , and clofazamine . a classification and review of primarily neural leprosy is presented . our patient represents the first reported case of primarily neural borderline lepromatous leprosy in canada . 
miliary tuberculosis presenting as skin lesions in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . acute miliary tuberculosis of the skin is an extremely rare infection that occurs in immunocompromised persons . we report an intravenous drug abuser with human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom erythematous papules developed on the trunk and proximal aspect of the extremities . visceral lesions of unsuspected miliary tuberculosis were discovered at autopsy , and the cutaneous papules were found to contain mycobacterium tuberculosis . this is the first reported case of this cutaneous infection in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . 
bioaerosols : prevalence and health effects in the indoor environment . assessing the role of bioaerosols in residence-related symptoms involves ( 1 ) determining that symptoms are related to the residence by medical examination and careful questioning , ( 2 ) connecting reported symptoms with known or hypothesized effects of bioaerosols , ( 3 ) examining the residence for bioaerosol risk factors such as overcrowding/poor ventilation , inappropriate outdoor air intrusion , and dampness/standing water , ( 4 ) and finally , if no obvious risk factors are present , air sampling . air sampling should always be a last resort and should use a reliable volumetric method . particulate samplers , such as the burkard personal spore trap , are inexpensive alternatives to viable particle samplers and will provide data on most organisms implicated in hypersensitivity diseases . interpretation of residential bioaerosol sample data requires both qualitative and quantitative comparison with adjacent outdoor air and examination of aerosol changes related to domestic activities . recommendations that should lead to a decrease in indoor bioaerosols include the use of air conditioning to allow limitation of outdoor aerosols , prevention of dampness or moisture intrusion , and discouraging the use of humidifying devices other than steam . bioaerosol assessment in the workplace is often more complex than for residences . because the symptomatic subjects are not in charge of the environment , such situations often lead to difficult employee/management relations and occasionally to litigation . it is essential that each step in workplace bioaerosol assessment be defensible and that the best possible methods are used . the approach is similar to the approach used for residences , but on a larger scale . symptom assessment must include stress and ergonomic factors . air sampling , if this is necessary , must usually be extensive with controls for ventilation rates , occupancy , and spatial variation . 
tuberculous peritonitis : a study comparing cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients . tuberculous peritonitis is a rare disease , which often goes unrecognized because of the subtle clinical clues and its insidous onset . we retrospectively analyzed the records of 37 cases of tuberculous peritonitis diagnosed over a 15-year period , and compared the clinical and diagnostic features of cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients . in cirrhotic patients , tuberculous peritonitis can simulate ascites from liver disease or spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . the diagnosis is difficult in these patients because the ascitic fluid may not be of the exudative type as a result of the low albumin level in serum , and lymphocytes do not predominate in all cases . adenosine deaminase ( ada ) activity in ascitic fluid was elevated ( higher than 40 u/l ) in all 11 patients ( four patients with hepatic cirrhosis ) . the time required to achieve a correct diagnosis was significantly longer in cirrhotic than in noncirrhotic patients . the overall mortality was 13 % , with deaths occurring exclusively among cirrhotic patients . we emphasize that tuberculous peritonitis in cirrhotic patients can present an atypical picture . a considerable element of suspicion is necessary . 
the role of human immunodeficiency virus infection in pneumococcal bacteremia in san francisco residents . human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) is an important risk factor for invasive pneumococcal disease , but information on clinical course and infecting serotypes is limited . to help develop strategies to reduce the morbidity due to invasive pneumococcal disease , episodes of pneumococcal bacteremia were identified by retrospective review of microbiology records ( november 1983-november 1987 ) at 10 san francisco hospitals and , for patients 20-55 years old living in san francisco , hiv antibody status was determined by review of medical records . pneumococcal isolates from one hospital were serotyped . of 294 patients with pneumococcal bacteremia identified , 32 ( 11 % ) had aids at the time pneumococcal bacteremia was diagnosed and another 43 ( 15 % ) were hiv-infected but did not have aids ; 12 hiv-infected patients developed aids after the episode of pneumococcal bacteremia . the rate of pneumococcal bacteremia in aids patients was estimated to be 9.4 / 1000 patient-years . serotypes of 27 ( 82 % ) of 33 pneumococcal isolates from hiv-infected patients and 107 ( 90 % ) from 119 patients without known hiv infection were among the 23 serotypes included in the currently available polysaccharide vaccine . the rate of pneumococcal bacteremia is approximately 100-fold greater in aids patients in san francisco than rates reported before the aids epidemic , but more than half the episodes of pneumococcal bacteremia in hiv-infected patients occurred in patients without aids . data on pneumococcal serotypes causing invasive disease in hiv-infected patients suggest that the current pneumococcal vaccine , if effective in this population , could provide significant protection against pneumococcal disease . 
monoclonal antibody to mouse lipopolysaccharide receptor protects mice against the lethal effects of endotoxin . specific endotoxic lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) binding sites on the cell membranes of murine lymphocytes and macrophages that may serve as functional receptors for lps have recently been identified using photoactivatable cross-linking lps derivatives . a monoclonal antibody ( mab 5d3 ) with specificity for this 80-kda protein has also been generated and characterized . the capacity of mab 5d3 to protect mice against the lethal effects of endotoxin was investigated . pretreatment of cf1 mice with as little as 15 micrograms of mab 5d3 provided virtually complete protection against a dose of endotoxin 10-fold greater than that required to kill all mice in an untreated control group using the galactosamine sensitization model . significant protection was also afforded normal mice given mab 5d3 relative to saline . several lines of evidence suggest that mab 5d3-mediated protection is due to the agonist properties of this antibody rather than a receptor blockade mechanism . 
properties of strains of escherichia coli o26 : h11 in relation to their enteropathogenic or enterohemorrhagic classification . thirty-seven strains of escherichia coli o26 : h11 from infants and calves with diarrhea were examined for properties associated with enteropathogenic ( epec ) or enterohemorrhagic e. coli ( ehec ) . strains were heterogeneous with respect to vero cytotoxin ( vt ) production and hybridization with the ehec plasmid-specific ( cvd419 ) probe ; 26 strains produced vt1 ; 1 produced vt2 . twenty-four of 27 vt + strains and 5 of 10 vt - strains hybridized with the cvd419 probe and produced enterohemolysin ; these properties are characteristic of ehec . the strains did not hybridize with the epec adherence factor probe , a property characteristic of some epec . nevertheless , 36 strains adhered to hep-2 cells in a localized manner and were positive by the fluorescence actin staining ( fas ) test that is considered to correlate with the ability to cause attaching and effacing lesions in vivo . epec and ehec cause these lesions . although the fas test appeared to be the most general pathogenicity test for the o26 : h11 strains , it could not be used to assign strains specifically to epec or ehec groups . 
fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk protect suckling mice from heat-stabile enterotoxin of escherichia coli . human milk protects suckling mice from the diarrheagenic effects of heat-stabile enterotoxin of escherichia coli ( st ) . to identify the human milk fraction responsible for this protection , pooled skimmed , deproteinated milk was passed through charcoal , whereupon lactose was separated from the oligosaccharides . the oligosaccharides contained st-protective activity ; the lactose did not . the neutral , but not the acidic , fraction exhibited protective activity against st ( 22 % vs. 57 % mortality , respectively ; p less than .001 ) . the fucosylated , but not the nonfucosylated , subfractions of the neutral fraction contained the factor protective against st ( 35 % vs. 50 % mortality , respectively ; p less than .05 ) . an oligosaccharide isolation scheme based on different principles produced confirmatory results . the commercially available neutral fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk did not significantly protect the mice from the effects of st. thus , the protective factor against st seems to be a minor neutral fucosyloligosaccharide of human milk . 
platelet-activating factor or a platelet-activating factor antagonist decreases tumor necrosis factor-alpha in the plasma of mice treated with endotoxin . when l-platelet-activating factor ( paf ) or alprazolam ( a paf antagonist ) was administered to lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) - treated mice , the level of plasma tumor necrosis factor ( tnf alpha ) determined by either elisa or a cytotoxic assay using wehi cells was significantly lowered . the inactive stereoisomer , d-paf , was not effective in lowering plasma tnf alpha levels in lps-treated mice . the decrease in plasma tnf alpha induced by l-paf or alprazolam was partly reversed by indomethacin . despite a decrease in plasma tnf alpha , l-paf or alprazolam caused an increase in the amount of tnf alpha mrna present in the kidneys and the livers of lps-treated mice , suggesting that a posttranscriptional event leading to the synthesis or release of tnf alpha was inhibited by these agents . 
protective effects of polyclonal sera and of monoclonal antibodies active to salmonella minnesota re595 lipopolysaccharide during experimental endotoxemia . mice were passively immunized with sera from blood donors active for rough lipopolysaccharides ( lps ) , the j5 ( rc chemotype ) mutant of escherichia coli o111 : b4 , and the re595 ( re chemotype ) mutant of salmonella minnesota . all protected the mice against lethal challenge with smooth e. coli wf96 lps , e. coli and salmonella rough mutant lps , or free lipid a. epitopes recognized by monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) reacting with the lps of s. minnesota re595 or lipid a were localized in the 2-keto-3-deoxy-d-manno-octulosonic acid ( kdo ) region and on lipid a. core-reactive mabs reacted with their homologous re lps and with free lipid a. one , gl11 , cross-reacted with the kdo alone . mabs gl6 , gl11 , l. 4 , l. 6 , and l. 8 protected the actinomycin d-sensitized mice against the lethal effects of lps from e. coli wf96 , salmonella enteritidis , e. coli j5 , s. minnesota re595 , and free lipid a. the gl11 antibody was also protective when injected after lps challenge . these results indicate that antibodies directed against the core glycolipid of s. minnesota re595 lps may be useful as an additive form of therapy that may enable decreased mortality during gram-negative bacterial sepsis . 
antimicrobial resistance of shigella isolates in the usa : the importance of international travelers . a nationwide sample of shigella isolates was collected and tested for resistance to 12 antimicrobial agents to assess the prevalence and epidemiologic correlates of antimicrobial resistance in shigella . of the isolates , 32 % were resistant to ampicillin , 7 % to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole , and 0.4 % to nalidixic acid . fifty ( 20 % ) of 252 isolates were associated with foreign travel . the best predictor of clinically important resistance was a history of foreign travel : 20 % of isolates from foreign travelers showed trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole resistance , compared with only 4 % of isolates from those without such a history . quinolone resistance was not identified in travel-related isolates , and quinolones may be more appropriate for initial therapy of travel-related shigellosis than is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . 
cefuroxime treatment failure of nontypable haemophilus influenzae meningitis associated with alteration of penicillin-binding proteins . a 10-year-old boy presented with nuchal rigidity and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) leukocytosis initially and again on day 6 of intravenous cefuroxime therapy ( 200 mg/kg/day ) . both csf specimens yielded nontypable beta-lactamase-negative haemophilus influenzae that were susceptible by disk tests but relatively resistant to cefuroxime ( mic , 8 - to 16-fold greater than that of control isolates ) . to define the mechanism of resistance , the cefuroxime resistance marker was transformed to a susceptible h. influenzae recipient ; inactivation and permeability of beta-lactam substrate were tested and the penicillin-binding protein ( pbp ) profiles were examined . inactivation of beta-lactam substrate was not detected and reduced permeability was not found . however , reduced beta-lactam binding to pbps 4 and 5 was observed ; 18 - to 27-fold more penicillin and 2.5-to 4-fold more cefuroxime was required to saturate or block 50 % of the binding sites of these pbps , respectively . thus , reduced affinity of pbps 4 and 5 for beta-lactam substrate appears to be the mechanism of cefuroxime resistance in this strain . the reduced affinity of these targets appears to have contributed to the bacteriologic and clinical failure in this patient . 
prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infection with a silver oxide-coated urinary catheter : clinical and microbiologic correlates . in a prospective clinical trial involving 482 acutely hospitalized patients , the overall incidence of catheter-associated urinary tract infection ( uti ; 10 % ) was similar in recipients of a silver oxide-coated urinary catheter ( silver catheter ) or a control silicone catheter . however , female sex and absence of antimicrobial use were independently associated with an increased risk of uti . after stratification for these variables , the silver catheter reduced the incidence of uti among women not receiving antimicrobial agents ( 19 % for control catheter vs. 0 for silver catheter , p = .04 ; confidence interval for the difference in incidence , 0.4 % -38 % ) but not in the other subgroups . gram-positive uti was associated with absence of antimicrobial use , the control catheter , and catheter care violations . gram-negative and candidal utis were more common after 7 days of catheterization , and candidal uti was associated with being female and antimicrobial use . these findings demonstrate that several clinical variables influenced the incidence and microbiology of catheter-associated uti and that the silver catheter appeared to prevent uti among women not receiving antimicrobials . 
restriction endonuclease analysis of total cellular dna of aspergillus fumigatus isolates of geographically and epidemiologically diverse origin . no typing system exists for aspergillus fumigatus , though isolates are distinguishable by phenotypic characteristics . dna was prepared by lysis of protoplasts , followed by deproteination , phenolchloroform extraction , and dialysis . dna prepared was of uniform size and exceeded 60 kb . after digestion with sali and xhoi endonucleases , dna was electrophoresed , stained , and photographed . differences in the mobilities of 10 - to 50-kb bands distinguished isolates . reproducibility was shown by repeated preparations and animal passage . by use of a proposed notation system for describing restriction fragment length polymorphism patterns , 31 epidemiologically characterized isolates from three continents revealed 24 patterns ( dna types ) . three dna types were represented by 3 isolates each and 1 dna type by 2 isolates ; 20 types were unique . two groups of 3 isolates of the same dna type were from stanford university hospital . one patient isolate from stanford was the same dna type as a sewage isolate from new jersey . another stanford isolate was the same as a german isolate . these observations indicate widespread dispersal of some clones and restricted locales for others . paired isolates from airway fluids of three patients had two dna types in each . restriction endonuclease typing shows promise for investigating the epidemiology and ecology of a. fumigatus . 
coccidioidomycosis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . coccidioidomycosis is at best a complicated fungal infection ; often it is life-threatening . coccidioidomycosis is confined epidemiologically to the southwestern region of the usa , and most cases have occurred in that area , particularly in arizona . however , we have seen several cases in san francisco in patients with only a history of travel to endemic areas . in part because of its regional distribution , information about the clinical presentation , diagnosis , and treatment of patients with coccidioidomycosis has lagged behind information about other , more commonly encountered aids-associated opportunistic infections . drs. galgiani and ampel have probably had the largest single experience with coccidioidomycosis in individuals infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . these specialists share their experience and make recommendations as to how these complicated conditions should be approached . 
detection of interleukin-3 in the serum of mice infected with mycobacterium lepraemurium . infection of mice by mycobacterium lepraemurium is accompanied by ablation of erythropoiesis in the bone marrow and gross enlargement of the spleen . this , together with increased monocytopoiesis and the earlier demonstration of macrophage colony-stimulating factor in the serum of infected mice , suggested the activity of additional cytokines . eight weeks after infection of mice by m. lepraemurium , interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) activity was demonstrated in the serum ( titer , 1:3200 ) . the serum titer of il-3 activity was maximal after 13 weeks ( greater than 1:6400 ) and was slightly reduced after 18 weeks ( 1:6400 ) . that the il-3 activity detected in the serum of the m. lepraemurium-infected mice reflected the presence of il-3 itself was confirmed by a neutralization assay using anti-murine il-3 antibodies ; il-3 activity in the serum of mice 13 weeks after infection was completely abolished by the anti-il-3 antibodies . finally , a 1-kb signal of il-3 rna was detected in the spleens of m. lepraemurium-infected mice 13 weeks after infection . 
partial characterization of chlamydia trachomatis isolates resistant to multiple antibiotics . in vitro susceptibility testing was done on urogenital isolates of chlamydia trachomatis from five patients , four of whom were suspected treatment failures . at least one isolate from each patient was resistant to tetracycline at concentrations greater than or equal to micrograms/ml , although less than 1 % of a population of organisms showed high-level resistance . fully resistant populations selected by passage through 8 micrograms/ml tetracycline either died or lost their resistance on further passage in antibiotic-free medium . relatively large inocula were required to demonstrate resistance , and morphology of inclusions was altered at high tetracycline concentrations . the observed resistance may be a new characteristic of the organism or merely newly recognized . isolates resistant to tetracycline were resistant to doxycycline , erythromycin , sulfamethoxazole , and clindamycin but sensitive to rifampin , ciprofloxacin , and ofloxacin . thus , resistance to tetracycline , erythromycin , and clindamycin occurs in c. trachomatis and may be a factor in some treatment failures . 
bacterial meningitis in the united states , 1986 : report of a multistate surveillance study . the bacterial meningitis study group . a prospective , laboratory-based surveillance project obtained accurate data on meningitis in a population of 34 million people during 1986 . haemophilus influenzae was the most common cause of bacterial meningitis ( 45 % ) , followed by streptococcus pneumoniae ( 18 % ) , and neisseria meningitidis ( 14 % ) . rates of h. influenzae meningitis varied significantly by region , from 1.9 / 100,000 in new jersey to 4.0 / 100,000 in washington state . the overall case fatality rates for meningitis were lower than those reported in several studies from the early 1970s , suggesting that improvements in early detection and antibiotic treatment may have occurred since that time . concurrent surveillance was also performed for all invasive disease due to the five most common causes of bacterial meningitis . serotypes of group b streptococcus other than type iii caused more than half of neonatal group b streptococcal disease and mortality , suggesting that an optimal vaccine preparation must be multivalent . of the organisms evaluated , group b streptococcus was the second most common cause of invasive disease in persons greater than 5 years old . 
a large outbreak of antibiotic-resistant shigellosis at a mass gathering . in july 1987 , a large outbreak of shigellosis occurred among attendees at a mass gathering in a national forest , the annual rainbow family gathering . sanitation in the campsite was poor , allowing widespread transmission of disease , probably by food , water , and person-to-person spread . the attack rate may have been greater than 50 % among the estimated 12,700 attendees . the outbreak was caused by shigella sonnei , resistant to ampicillin , tetracycline , and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ; the organism was of colicin type 9 and contained a 90-kilobase plasmid not found in non-outbreak-related strains . the dispersal of the group resulted in nationwide dissemination of the organism , and outbreaks in three states were linked to transmission from attendees at the gathering . this outbreak demonstrates the potential for rapid dissemination of disease in such a setting and the necessity for careful planning of mass gatherings . 
quantitation of tamm-horsfall protein binding to uropathogenic escherichia coli and lectins . in quantitative experiments using elisa , binding of tamm-horsfall protein ( thp ) to uropathogenic escherichia coli was studied with monoclonal antibody to thp . adherence to e. coli bearing type 1 fimbriae was proportional to thp concentration and size of the bacterial inoculum . type 1 fimbriae-bearing e. coli bound 50 times more thp than did non-type 1-fimbriated or p-fimbriated strains . concanavalin a and wheat germ agglutinin bound thp in a dose-dependent fashion , whereas pokeweed mitogen and vicia villosa b4 isolectin did not . addition of mannose and n-acetylglucosamine reduced adherence of thp to concanavalin a and wheat germ agglutinin by 50 % -80 % . sugar inhibition studies suggested that the fimbrial receptor site for thp has lectin-like properties and that thp binds to fimbriae via its mannose side chains . this quantitative assay is useful for studying the interaction between thp , uroepithelial cells , and bacteria in vitro . 
prevalence and diagnosis of legionella pneumonia : a 3-year prospective study with emphasis on application of urinary antigen detection . during a 3-year period the frequency of legionellosis in hospitalized patients with community-acquired and nosocomial pneumonias was 3.4 % ( 23/684 cases ) and 5.9 % ( 33/559 ) , respectively . of the diagnostic tests evaluated , detection of legionella pneumophila serogroup 1 antigen in urine had the highest sensitivity , with 86 % of culture-proven cases being positive . sensitivities of serologic tests and examination of respiratory secretions ( culture and direct immunofluorescence ) were 36 % and 26 % , respectively . the diagnostic value of serology and of examination of respiratory secretions can be low when specimens are obtained and processed under the typical conditions of hospitalization . urinary antigen detection represents an important diagnostic addition , and examination of postmortem lung tissue from fatal cases with pneumonia is an important adjunct for estimating the prevalence of legionellosis and for assessing the effectiveness of premortem diagnostic tests . 
tumor necrosis factor-alpha plays a role in host defense against histoplasma capsulatum . tumor necrosis factor-alpha was detected in supernatants collected from balb/c mouse peritoneal macrophages incubated continuously with histoplasma capsulatum . the levels of tnf alpha measured by actinomycin d bioassay peaked within hours after exposure and then greatly declined by 24 h. tnf alpha was also measured in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from balb/c mice challenged intranasally with h. capsulatum . lavage fluid tnf alpha levels exhibited the same pattern as the in vitro supernatants ; they peaked within hours after challenge and lower levels were detected at 24 h. treatment of mice with anti-tnf alpha antibody accelerated mortality in response to systemic infection and significantly increased tissue colony counts in the liver and spleen . in the murine model , tnf alpha is produced in response to h. capsulatum and appears to play some role in host defense to infection . 
bacterial infections in patients with visceral leishmaniasis . bacterial infections are often seen in patients with visceral leishmaniasis . to determine the incidence of such infection and the more common infectious agents , 30 consecutive patients with visceral leishmaniasis were followed throughout hospitalization . there were 24 episodes of bacterial infection in 18 patients ( 60 % ) . the incidence of bacterial infections in these patients was 22.2 / 1000 days of admission . the proportion of patients becoming infected by time was significantly greater in the visceral leishmaniasis group than in controls ( p less than .01 ) . the skin , respiratory tract , and middle ear were the most common sites of infection , and pseudomonas aeruginosa and staphylococcus aureus were the most common agents . low-grade-virulence bacteria ( e.g. , serratia and providencia species ) were also isolated from some cases . bacterial infections ( mainly nosocomial ) in patients with visceral leishmaniasis tend to be severe and can cause death . when bacterial infection is suspected in these patients , empiric antibiotic therapy should be started immediately , including coverage for p. aeruginosa and s. aureus , after appropriate diagnostic procedures are taken . 
confocal microscopic detection of human immunodeficiency virus rna-producing cells . a central anomaly in the pathogenesis of aids is that few actively infected cd4 + cells ( 1 in 10 ( 4 ) -10 ( 5 ) have been detected in the peripheral blood , even though dramatic depletion ( often greater than 90 % ) of cd4 + cells is the hallmark of disease progression . a sensitive , 35s-based human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) rna in situ hybridization technique was coupled with a new detection method , confocal laser scanning microscopy , to examine transcriptionally active hiv-infected cells from individuals at different disease stages . in 35 symptomatic hiv-infected individuals ( aids and aids related complex ) , an average of 1 in 350 mononuclear cells produced hiv rna . in contrast , in an asymptomatic group of 30 individuals , an average of 1 in 2000 mononuclear cells produced hiv rna . these data , obtained using this improved detection method , suggest there are more hiv rna-producing cells in hiv-infected individuals than previously reported . in addition , increased numbers of hiv transcribing cells were found to correlate with declining clinical condition as assessed by karnofsky performance score . these data suggest that viremia per se may account for the pathologic consequences in hiv infection . 
transmission of chlamydia pneumoniae in young children in a japanese family . chlamydia pneumoniae strain twar was isolated from the respiratory tract of a 5-year-old girl suffering from pneumonia . the igm and igg antibody titers to twar were 1:32 and 1:128 , respectively . cultures and serology for other common bacterial and viral respiratory pathogens were negative . although she was treated with 35 mg/kg/day rokitamycin , twar was repeatedly isolated after treatment . her 3-year-old sister developed acute bronchitis , and twar was isolated from her nasopharynx . she was treated with 43 mg/kg/day erythromycin with prompt improvement , and twar was not isolated after treatment . although her mother , grandmother , and 8-month-old sister suffered from respiratory illness during these periods , twar was not isolated from them . the repeated isolations from the index patient suggest that infection was transmitted from sister to sister . this case represents the first reported isolation of twar from young children in the same household and the first from japan . 
pilot trial of selective decontamination for prevention of bacterial infection in an intensive care unit . selective decontamination of the oropharynx and gastrointestinal tract with nonabsorbable antimicrobials and sucralfate , a stress ulcer prophylactic that maintains the normal gastric acid bacterial barrier , were compared for prevention of pneumonia in a cardiac surgery intensive care unit . over 8 months , 51 patients received selective decontamination and 56 received sucralfate . the selective decontamination regimen included polymyxin , gentamicin , and nystatin given as an oral paste and as a solution ; patients also received standard antacid or histamine2 blocker stress ulcer prophylaxis . patients in the selective decontamination group had significantly less colonization of the oropharynx and stomach by gram-negative bacilli ( 12 % vs. 55 % , p less than .001 ) , significantly fewer infections due to gram-negative bacilli ( 6 % vs. 20 % , p = .02 ) , and fewer infections overall ( 12 % vs. 27 % , p = .04 ) . there was one episode of pneumonia in the selective decontamination group and five in the sucralfate group . mortality and length of stay did not differ between the groups , but those receiving selective decontamination had less than one-third as many days of systemic antibiotic therapy with no increase in colonization or infection with resistant gram-negative bacilli . thus , selective decontamination appeared to reduce both extrapulmonary and pulmonary infections . 
occurrence of secondary attenuating mutations in avirulent salmonella typhimurium vaccine strains . the attenuating delta aroa554 mutation in salmonella typhimurium strain sl3261 was complemented in vitro by selecting for aroa + recombinant dna clones . sl3261 containing cloned aroa + genes did not require exogenous phenylalanine , tryptophan , tryosine , p-aminobenzoic acid , or dihydroxybenzoic acid for growth in defined media . cloned aroa + genes did not restore wild-type virulence to sl3261 , however , in a murine typhoid model . the delta aroa554 mutation was transduced into s. typhimurium strain sr-11 , a mouse-virulent strain recently passaged in mice . the sr-11 delta aroa554 mutant was highly attenuated for mice challenged parenterally . the same cloned aroa + genes isolated in sl3261 restored the virulence of the sr-11 delta aroa554 mutant to that of wild-type sr-11 . these results suggest that while the delta aroa554 allele remains effective in reducing s. typhimurium virulence , laboratory passage of attenuated vaccine strains may lead to the accumulation of additional attenuating defects . 
nasal carriage of staphylococcus aureus : correlation with hormonal status in women . in view of recent observations on hormone-microorganism interactions , a study of staphylococcus aureus nasal carriage in relation to sex-hormone status was undertaken . prospectively in 479 women attending a colpocytologic clinic , hormonal status was assessed by determining the karyopyknotic index ( ki ) on smears stained by the papanicolaou method . rates of s. aureus nasal carriage were 29.3 % in premenopausal women and 21.9 % in postmenopausal women ( p not significant ) . carriage rates were significantly higher ( p = .026 , chi 2 7.32 ) for women with high kis ( 40.7 % ) than for those with intermediate and low kis ( 27.03 % and 25.1 % , respectively ) . s. aureus nasal carriage also correlated independently and significantly with previous antibiotic use and the presence of insulin-treated diabetes mellitus . this preliminary observation confirms an association between levels of sex hormones as reflected by the ki and s. aureus nasal carriage rates . 
treatment evaluation of experimental staphylococcal infections : comparison of beta-lactam , lipopeptide , and glycopeptide antimicrobial therapy . ly 146032 , teicoplanin , vancomycin , oxacillin , cephalothin , cefamandole , ampicillin plus sulbactam , and cefoperazone plus sulbactam were studied against six isolates of staphylococci ( including both staphylococcus aureus and coagulase negative staphylococci ) using in vivo and in vitro methods . in vitro susceptibility measurements demonstrated that all six isolates were sensitive to ly 146032 and vancomycin and that five of six isolates were sensitive to tiecoplanin , cefamandole , ampicillin plus sulbactam , and cefoperazone plus sulbactam . comparison of antimicrobial therapy in an in vivo rabbit model demonstrated that cefoperazone plus sulbactam was active against the greatest number of isolates ( five of six ) based on a reduction of greater than or equal to 5.0 log10 colony forming units per milliliter ( cfu/ml ) from growth control at the end of the animal treatment study . vancomycin and oxacillin were equal in achieving reductions of greater than or equal to 5.0 log10 cfu/ml in four of the six isolates . comparing each isolate 's in vivo outcome to in vitro data shows that in vitro susceptibility tests overpredict the sensitivity of these six isolates to ly 146032 and vancomycin , are variable for teicoplanin , cefamandole , ampicillin plus sulbactam , and cefoperazone plus sulbactam , and underpredict for oxacillin . 
a ' silent ' intracranial complication of frontal sinusitis . intracranial complications of frontal sinusitis , although rare today , do still develop despite widespread use of antibiotics . we report a case which demonstrates how silently a frontal lobe abscess may present with subtle changes in mood and behaviour , with no focal neurological signs . diagnosis and management are discussed and a brief review of the incidence of intracranial complications of frontal sinusitis , mode of spread , clinical presentation , investigations , treatment and bacteriology is presented . 
rhinosporidiosis associated with squamous cell carcinoma in the tongue . the peritumoural region of a squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue when examined with light and electron microscope showed nodular bodies in the submucosa with all the distinctive features of ' sporangium and ' spores ' of rhinosporidiosis . the occurrence of rhinosporidiosis in the tongue along with malignancy has not been reported hitherto . some interesting observations and causal relationships are discussed . 
another hazard of ear syringing : malignant external otitis . a case of malignant external otitis is presented . this occurred in a healthy 72-year-old non-diabetic , non-immuno-compromised man after ear syringing . the infection was treated with oral ciprofloxacin for eight weeks with complete resolution . 
adult immunization in a network of family practice residency programs . a substantial proportion of morbidity and mortality associated with vaccine-preventable diseases occurs among adults . teaching residents about disease prevention is mandated in the curriculum guidelines for family practice programs . a cooperative study among the kansas city family practice residency programs was begun to look at immunization behaviors in these teaching programs . a retrospective audit of medical records and a prospective survey of residents and faculty were performed . from the medical records of 400 patients seen for health maintenance examinations , the frequency of tetanus-diphtheria immunizations recorded was 4.75 % . the pooled immunization rate recorded for pneumococcal vaccine was 25 % , and for influenza vaccine , 24 % . although 93 % of respondents knew patients need tetanus-diphtheria immunization every 10 years , on a written questionnaire giving clinical examples , they were less likely to elect to immunize older patients eligible for tetanus-diphtheria vaccine . the following immunization criteria were listed by respondents : for pneumococcal vaccine , age over 65 years ( 86 % ) ; for influenza vaccine , age over 65 years ( 85 % ) , chronic diseases ( 69 % ) , residence in a chronic care facility ( 7 % ) , and being a health care worker ( 28 % ) . educational interventions stressing the appropriate criteria and involvement of the patient are planned at the separate programs . 
causes of death in hospitalized intravenous drug abusers . the authors reviewed at autopsy the causes of death of 274 patients with evidence of intravenous drug abuse who had been admitted to a large public hospital . there were 127 who died from diseases unrelated to intravenous drug abuse , and in 41 % of these , chronic alcoholism was implicated . deaths from overdose syndromes and drug-related organ pathology comprised only 11 % of all cases . the mean age at death was 39 years . there was a male/female ratio of 3.6:1 . half of all patients died from infection -- 72 from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) alone . these findings indicate that persons hospitalized with a history of intravenous drug abuse usually die from causes other than overdose and that aids and chronic alcoholism are significant problems . emphasis should be placed upon detecting " hidden " intravenous drug deaths to provide more accurate statistical information . 
early hospital discharge of children with cancer treated for fever and neutropenia : identification and management of the low-risk patient . children with leukemia and solid tumors are often hospitalized for empiric broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy because of fever during periods of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia . conventional practice dictates that parenteral antibiotics be continued until the patient is afebrile and has recovered from neutropenia , ie , until the absolute neutrophil count ( anc ) exceeds 500 cells per cubic millimeter . however , the practice in our center has been to discontinue parenteral antibiotic therapy and discharge many such patients before resolution of neutropenia . since the feasibility and safety of this approach has not been studied , we reviewed the records of 114 consecutive hospitalizations for fever and neutropenia in 61 patients during a 13-month period . seventy-seven children ( 68 % ) were discharged to their homes while still neutropenic after they had been afebrile for 1 to 2 days on parenteral antibiotics , had negative blood cultures , appeared well , and usually had some evidence of bone marrow recovery . five patients ( 4.4 % ) developed recurrent fever and required rehospitalization within 7 days of discharge . only three of the 77 patients ( 3.9 % ) who were sent home with neutropenia had recurrent fever . each had a brief and uneventful second hospitalization . two of the 37 children discharged with an anc over 500 cells per cubic millimeter required rehospitalization . a declining anc and advanced malignancy were risk factors in predicting recurrence of fever following discharge . a rising monocyte count was a predictor of imminent recovery from neutropenia . these results suggest that " early " discharge of an afebrile yet still neutropenic patient is safe when the patient is in remission , has no evidence of serious infection , appears clinically stable , and has indications of bone marrow recovery . the conventional approach of routinely continuing the hospitalization until resolution of neutropenia may be unnecessary in such low-risk patients . 
subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a fungal aneurysm of the vertebral artery as a complication of intracranial aneurysm clipping . case report . intracranial aneurysms are an uncommon manifestation of fungal infection . a case is described in which the formation of an aneurysm followed an intracranial intraoperative aspergillus infection attributable to a long period of preoperative antibiotic medication and immunosuppressive therapy with steroids . 
adult immunizations : are they worth the trouble ? there are good data to recommend routine use of vaccines against measles , rubella , tetanus , influenza , and pneumococcal infections in adults . an adolescent or an adult born after 1956 is considered to be susceptible to measles unless he or she has received two doses of live measles vaccine or has suffered a physician-diagnosed case of measles . tetanus is largely a disease of the elderly , and there is a universal need for immunizations with tetanus toxoid . influenza continues to be a major public health problem , and influenza vaccine should be given annually to the elderly and to those at high risk . the efficacy of pneumococcal vaccine in american adults is still being debated . results from case-control studies show that the vaccine is about 60 % effective in reducing the incidence of disease due to vaccine-related strains . its use in the elderly and in those at higher risk for pneumococcal infection is recommended . 
gunshot injuries to the hip and abdomen : the association of joint and intra-abdominal visceral injuries . a retrospective review of all gunshot injuries to the hip at our medical center over a 24-year period was performed . adequate information and radiographs were available for 49 patients . of these , five patients ( 10.2 % ) had associated abdominal visceral injuries . these five patients were examined at an average of 5.9 years after their injury , and compared by utilizing the harris hip score rating . radiographs were also obtained . four of these five patients ( 80 % ) had initially developed infections in their hip joints , with all four having poor functional outcomes , with an average harris hip score of 48.5 from their hip injury . careful initial evaluation and aggressive surgical and antibiotic treatment are recommended to prevent these poor results . 
clinical course and pharmacokinetics following a massive overdose of amphotericin b in a neonate . amphotericin is the drug of choice for the treatment of fungal infections in infants and children . when used in the recommended doses , amphotericin therapy is associated with high rates of adverse effects , including nephrotoxicity , hepatotoxicity , decrease in white blood cells , platelets and hemoglobin , chills , fever and even death ( 1 ) . we report a case involving a neonate who was exposed to a 50 fold overdose of amphotericin over a three day period . 
fatal sepsis following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin administration for bladder cancer . intravesical administration of bacillus calmette-guerin has been shown to be highly effective treatment of superficial bladder cancer . complications from bacillus calmette-guerin therapy are usually minor but serious and even fatal reactions can occur . five recent cases illustrate the gravity of bacillus calmette-guerin sepsis . one man with severe debility and the organic brain syndrome died acutely with a fever of 40 c. two men had frank sepsis that progressed to multiorgan failure and death . sepsis progressed despite the use of isoniazid , rifampin and streptomycin . two men who had equally progressive sepsis with intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin survived with the use of cycloserine for the first 72 hours of treatment . triple antituberculous antibiotics , including cycloserine , may be lifesaving . sepsis resulted from intravenous absorption through inflamed or disrupted urothelium . bacillus calmette-guerin treatment should not be administered in the presence of severe cystitis or after grossly traumatic catheterization . 
fatal disseminated mycobacterial infection following intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin . we describe a fatal case of disseminated mycobacteriosis after intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin immunotherapy . we summarize the prior safety record of this therapeutic modality , discuss local and systemic pathophysiological mechanisms by which dissemination might have occurred , and review the reported clinical experience with antituberculous chemotherapy for significant bacillus calmette-guerin infection . finally , we offer suggestions for prophylaxis of certain patients with a history of exposure to intravesical bacillus calmette-guerin . 
disseminated histoplasmosis with embolic endovascular complications : a case report . a 57-year-old man had subacute embolic ischemia of his right foot and subsequent acute embolic ischemia of his left foot after angiography . thrombus removed at the time of the left femoral thromboembolectomy grew histoplasma capsulatum confirming the diagnosis of disseminated histoplasmosis . surgical revascularization of the right leg and parenteral amphotericin b was followed by chronic ketoconazole therapy for 16 months . the patient has remained asymptomatic at 30 months after operation . effective treatment of endovascular infection with ischemic complications of histoplasmosis requires surgical revascularization and intensive chemotherapeutic intervention . histoplasmosis is a ubiquitous infection in endemic areas that often has an asymptomatic subclinical course . involvement of the cardiovascular system is rarely reported . previous case reports have described infected cardiac valves and aortic aneurysms . this report describes the uncommon presentation of disseminated histoplasma capsulatum infection as a peripheral embolic event and the successful management with revascularization combined with systemic amphotericin b followed by ketoconazole therapy . 
association of group c beta-hemolytic streptococci with endemic pharyngitis among college students throat cultures were performed throughout 2 school years to determine whether non-group a beta-hemolytic streptococci ( nga bhs ) could be isolated more frequently in 232 college students who had symptomatic pharyngitis than from 198 age-matched controls with noninfectious problems . duplicate throat swabs were inoculated onto plates that contained sheep blood agar , one plate being incubated in a 5 % co2 atmosphere and the other in an anaerobic environment . the bhs were grouped using latex agglutination . among the nga bhs , only those from group c were isolated significantly more often among the patients compared with the controls ( 26 % vs 11 % ) . quantitative colony counts of isolates of group c bhs were generally higher among patients than controls . patients with group c bhs had fever , exudative tonsillitis , and anterior cervical adenopathy significantly more frequently than did patients who had throat cultures that were negative for group c bhs . group c bhs were epidemiologically associated with endemic pharyngitis in this college student population . 
positive lyme serology in subacute bacterial endocarditis . a study of four patients . lyme borreliosis is a multisystem inflammatory disorder caused by the tick-borne spirochete borrelia burgdorferi . clinical manifestations are protean , involving the skin , joints , peripheral and central nervous systems , and the heart . however , the presentation of lyme disease often overlaps with that of other conditions . we describe four patients from a region endemic for lyme disease who had elevated levels of antibodies reactive to b burgdorferi and whose signs and symptoms were initially attributed to lyme borreliosis but whose subsequent blood cultures established a diagnosis of nonspirochetal subacute bacterial endocarditis . although immunoblots on serum samples from three of the four patients were consistent with prior infection from b burgdorferi , a positive immunoblot does not establish active infection . similarly , seropositivity to b burgdorferi only indicates possible exposure to this organism . the occurrence of positive serologies to b burgdorferi in the presence of other diseases can lead to diagnostic confusion . 
effect of short-term intermittent antibiotic treatment on growth of burmese ( myanmar ) village children . to test the hypothesis that subclinical enteric infection ( such as bacterial overgrowth ) , rice malabsorption , and growth faltering are causally linked , a field trial of low-dose , short-term , intermittent antibiotic treatment was carried out in 142 hydrogen-producing ( by lactulose breath hydrogen test ) burmese village children aged 6-59 months . the children were randomly allocated treatment with metronidazole ( 20 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg daily ) , amoxycillin ( 25 mg/kg daily ) , or placebo given 1 week per month for 6 months . a cooked rice meal breath hydrogen test was done to classify the children as rice absorbers ( ra ) or rice malabsorbers ( rm ) before treatment and monthly on the day before each cycle of treatment . there were no differences between the treatment groups , so they were considered together . factorial analysis showed that antibiotic treatment did not significantly affect the proportion of rm children . the only significant difference between antibiotic-treated and placebo-treated children 's growth was in the subgroup of rm children aged 36-47 months ; the antibiotic-treated children had significantly greater linear growth . in other age groups antibiotic treatment had no effect on growth . 
person-to-person transmission of pseudomonas cepacia between patients with cystic fibrosis . ribotyping , a method of strain identification based on analysis of bacterial genomic restriction fragment length polymorphisms , was used to investigate the acquisition of pseudomonas cepacia by a patient with cystic fibrosis . analysis of isolates recovered from the index patient and his contacts showed person-to-person transmission of this opportunist organism . this documentation of the transmission of p cepacia from one cystic fibrosis patient to another suggests that measures to limit the acquisition of the pathogen by patients with cystic fibrosis may be worth while . 
buruli ulcer in benin in a study of 28 patients with mycobacterium ulcerans infection ( buruli ulcer ) in oinhi , benin , it became clear that the disease can regress as well as progress , and that patients can have lesions of different stages simultaneously . a system of disease staging was introduced ( i = subcutaneous nodule ; ii = cellulitis ; iii = ulceration ; iv = scar formation ) . research to find an effective treatment for this crippling disease is urgently needed . 
impact of active immunisation against enteritis necroticans in papua new guinea . enteritis necroticans , known locally as pigbel , has been a major cause of illness and death among children in the highlands of papua new guinea . after a successful trial of active immunisation against the beta toxin of the causative organism , clostridium perfringens type c , immunisation of children was begun in 1980 . the effects of the immunisation programme on pigbel admissions in 3 of the 5 major highland hospitals were assessed . in each of the centres studied the proportion of admissions due to enteritis necroticans dropped significantly after immunisation was introduced ( p less than 0.001 ) and hospital admissions for pigbel in 1984-86 , when immunisation was well established , were less than one fifth of previous figures . 
changing epidemiology of group a streptococcal infection in the usa . to see whether changes in the epidemiology of group a streptococcal disease in the usa have been accompanied by a corresponding change in serotype distribution , epidemiological and m-typing and t-typing data for 5193 strains sent to the centers for disease control , atlanta , between 1972 and 1988 were analysed . the proportions of m-types 1 , 3 , and 18 increased significantly during the study period . these m-types were more likely to be invasive , to cause fatal infection , and to occur in a cluster of infections than were other types . by contrast , the proportions of m-types 4 and 12 decreased ; they were less invasive and were less likely to be found in clusters than were other types . these data suggest that changes in the epidemiology of group a streptococcal disease may be related to changes in the distribution of m-types causing infection . 
value of antigen detection in predicting invasive pulmonary aspergillosis two elisas were used to detect serum and urinary aspergillus antigen in 121 patients who were profoundly neutropenic after leukaemia therapy or bone marrow transplantation . the presence of antigen correctly predicted development of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis ( ipa ) in 16 patients . in 2 other cases antigen appeared after the clinical diagnosis had been made , while in only 1 case was antigen not detected . in 11 of 13 episodes of clinically suspected fungal infection antigen was detected before clinical diagnosis was made . by contrast , antigen was detected in only 1 of 90 patients who had no evidence of ipa . both elisas gave positive and negative predictive values for ipa of greater than 95 % , demonstrating the value of antigen detection in early diagnosis of aspergillus infection and the assay 's ability to predict subsequent development of ipa . we conclude that neutropenic patients should be screened for aspergillus antigen , and propose that initial detection of fungal antigen justifies commencement of empirical antifungal therapy . such an approach should improve the survival of patients who are at risk of developing this usually fatal infection . 
infective dermatitis of jamaican children : a marker for htlv-i infection in jamaican children infective dermatitis is a chronic eczema associated with refractory nonvirulent staphylococcus aureus or beta-haemolytic streptococcus infection of the skin and nasal vestibule . 14 children between the ages of 2 and 17 years with typical infective dermatitis , attending the dermatology clinic at the university hospital of the west indies in jamaica , were tested for antibody to human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) . all were seropositive , whereas 11 children of similar age with atopic eczema were all negative . in 2 of 2 cases of infective dermatitis , the biological mother was htlv-1 seropositive . none of the 14 patients showed signs of adult t-cell leukaemia/lymphoma , though experience with previous cases of infective dermatitis indicates the possibility of such progression . 
disseminated histoplasmosis in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome : clinical findings , diagnosis and treatment , and review of the literature . histoplasmosis is a serious opportunistic infection in patients with aids , often representing the first manifestation of the syndrome . most infections occurring within the endemic region are caused by exogenous exposure , while those occurring in nonendemic areas may represent endogenous reactivation of latent foci of infection or exogenous exposure to microfoci located within those nonendemic regions . however , prospective investigations are needed to prove the mode of acquisition . the infection usually begins in the lungs even though the chest roentgenogram may be normal . clinical findings are nonspecific ; most patients present with symptoms of fever and weight loss of at least 1 month 's duration . when untreated , many cases eventually develop severe clinical manifestations resembling septicemia . chest roentgenograms , when abnormal , show interstitial or reticulonodular infiltrates . many cases have been initially misdiagnosed as disseminated mycobacterial infection or pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . patients are often concurrently infected with other opportunistic pathogens , supporting the need for a careful search for co-infections . useful diagnostic tests include serologic tests for anti-h . capsulatum antibodies and hpa , silver stains of tissue sections or body fluids , and cultures using fungal media from blood , bone marrow , bronchoalveolar lavage fluid , and other tissues or body fluids suspected to be infected on clinical grounds . treatment with amphotericin b is highly effective , reversing the clinical manifestations of infection in at least 80 % of cases . however , nearly all patients relapse within 1 year after completing courses of amphotericin b of 35 mg/kg or more , supporting the use of maintenance treatment to prevent recurrence . relapse rates are lower ( 9 to 19 % ) in patients receiving maintenance therapy with amphotericin b given at doses of about 50 mg weekly or biweekly than with ketoconazole ( 50-60 % ) , but controlled trials comparing different maintenance regimens have not been conducted . until results of such trials become available , our current approach is to administer an induction phase of 15 mg/kg of amphotericin b given over 4 to 6 weeks , followed by maintenance therapy with 50 to 100 mg of amphotericin b given once or twice weekly , or biweekly . if results of a prospective national institutes of allergy and infectious disease study of itraconazole maintenance therapy document its effectiveness , alternatives to amphotericin b may be reasonable . 
coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection . a review of 77 patients . through a retrospective review , we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during hiv infection . patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation : 20 had focal pulmonary disease ( group 1 ) , 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) , 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis ( group 3 ) , 9 had meningitis ( group 4 ) , 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement ( group 5 ) , and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection ( group 6 ) . coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83 % of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed . sera from 39 % of patients were positive for tp antibodies while 74 % had cf antibodies . eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease ( group 1 or 2 ) . serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar , with 26 % positive for immunodiffusion tp antibodies and 79 % positive for immunodiffusion cf antibodies . for the 77 patients in this study , the cd4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 x 10 ( 9 ) cells/l in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed , and a low cd4 count was significantly associated with mortality ( p less than 0.01 ) . at the time of follow-up , 32 of the 77 patients ( 42 % ) had died . there were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) than in other groups ( p less than 0.001 ) . amphotericin b , ketoconazole , fluconazole , and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies . outcome could not be related to the therapy used . of note , 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions . 
extrapulmonary pneumocystosis : clinical features in human immunodeficiency virus infection . pneumocystis carinii infection is reported with increasing frequency as a cause of disease outside of the respiratory tract in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis is not limited to patients in any discrete risk group for hiv infection . patients with hiv infection who develop extrapulmonary pneumocystosis frequently do not have concurrent p. carinii pneumonia . signs and symptoms of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis are nonspecific but when present are frequently referable to the tissues or organs involved . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis can be diagnosed by examination of tissue biopsies from affected sites using standard histologic techniques . therapy with antimicrobial agents used to treat p. carinii pneumonia has been effective in some patients . an association between use of aerosolized pentamidine for prevention of p. carinii pneumonia and development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis has been suggested but remains unconfirmed . other factors such as the use of zidovudine and duration of immunodeficiency may also be important to the pathogenesis of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . further studies are needed to better identify risk factors that may predispose patients to the development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . 
soleus-specific myopathy induced by passive stretching under local tetanus . twenty-four adult albino rats were injected with tetanus toxin into the right gastrocnemius muscle and then subjected to sustained dorsiflexion of the right ankle joint for 2 to 14 days . histologic examinations of the soleus after this procedure showed myopathic changes , characterized by variations in fiber diameters , myonecrosis with opaque fibers , interstitial fibrosis , and small groups of regenerated fibers . electron microscopy revealed derangement of t-tubules immediately adjacent to the sarcolemma in the early degenerative stage . the size and wet weight of soleus increased compared to that of the control side between 2 and 5 days post-tetanus . serum got , ldh , and creatine kinase ( ck ) levels were elevated especially in the early degenerative stages . peri - and endomysial fibrosis developed gradually from about 3 days post-tetanus . pathomechanisms inducing these changes were discussed . 
a randomized , prospective field trial of a conjugate vaccine in the protection of infants and young children against invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease background . haemophilus influenzae type b is the leading cause of invasive bacterial disease in young children . the capsular polysaccharide vaccine does not protect children at greatest risk ( those under the age of 18 months ) , but a polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccine has proved to be more immunogenic in this age group . methods . we enrolled 114,000 infants in finland in an open , prospective , randomized trial of a h. influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide-diphtheria toxoid conjugate vaccine ( polyribosylribitol phosphate-diphtheria toxoid [ prp-d ] ) . children born on odd-numbered days were vaccinated at the ages of 3 , 4 , 6 , and 14 to 18 months ; those born on even-numbered days formed the control group and received the same vaccine at the age of 24 months . results . after three doses of the vaccine there were 4 cases of verified bacteremic h. influenzae type b disease in the group receiving early vaccination , as compared with 64 cases in the control group , between the ages of approximately 7 and 24 months . the protective efficacy of the vaccine was thus 94 percent ( 95 percent confidence interval , 83 to 98 ) . no serious adverse effects were reported . the immune response to the conjugate vaccine was characteristic of a t-cell-dependent response when studied in a cohort of 120 infants . the primary immunization series resulted in a geometric mean concentration of anticapsular antibody of 0.53 micrograms per milliliter at the age of seven months , and the fourth dose evoked an anamnestic response , with a mean antibody concentration of 45.22 micrograms per milliliter . conclusions . a new conjugate vaccine consisting of the capsular polysaccharide of h. influenzae type b covalently linked to a protein carrier ( prp-d ) , administered to infants beginning at the age of 3 months , is highly effective in protecting young finnish children ( 7 to 24 months old ) against invasive h. influenzae type b infections . 
limited efficacy of a haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccine in alaska native infants . the alaska h. influenzae vaccine study group background . the prevention of invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease requires a vaccine that is effective when administered during the first six months of life . the infants of alaska natives are at particularly high risk of invasive h. influenzae type b disease . methods . to evaluate the protective efficacy of a h. influenzae type b polysaccharide-diphtheria toxoid conjugate vaccine ( polyribosylribitol phosphate-diphtheria toxoid [ prp-d ] ) , we enrolled 2102 alaska native infants in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial in which either the vaccine or a saline placebo was administered at approximately two , four , and six months of age . results . after 3969 subject-years of follow-up and 32 episodes of h. influenzae type b disease , the overall incidence of invasive disease was not reduced significantly in the vaccinated subjects ( 6.0 cases per 1000 patient-years ) , as compared with the placebo controls ( 9.6 ) or with other alaska native infants ( 6.0 ) . after one , two , or three doses there was no significant protective efficacy with the vaccine ; after three doses the efficacy was only 35 percent ( 95 percent confidence interval , -57 to 73 ) . the lack of efficacy was not related to the age at onset of disease , age at immunization , type of disease , degree of alaska native heritage , time after immunization , or year of the study . levels of h. influenzae type b anticapsular antibody in recipients of the vaccine became significantly higher than levels in those who received placebo only after the second and third doses . even after the third dose , only 48 percent of the vaccinated infants had antibody levels of more than 0.1 microgram per milliliter ( geometric mean titer , 0.18 ) . antibody responses did not vary with the level of maternally acquired antibody , degree of alaska native ancestry , or age at time of the first or second immunizations , but they increased with increasing age at time of the third dose ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions . we found no evidence that the prp-d vaccine provides significant protection , at least for alaska native infants , against invasive diseases caused by h. influenzae type b. the ineffectiveness of the vaccine paralleled its limited immunogenicity . 
the agent of bacillary angiomatosis . an approach to the identification of uncultured pathogens background . bacillary angiomatosis is an infectious disease causing proliferation of small blood vessels in the skin and visceral organs of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection and other immunocompromised hosts . the agent is often visualized in tissue sections of lesions with warthin-starry staining , but the bacillus has not been successfully cultured or identified . this bacillus may also cause cat scratch disease . methods . in attempting to identify this organism , we used the polymerase chain reaction . we used oligonucleotide primers complementary to the 16s ribosomal rna genes of eubacteria to amplify 16s ribosomal gene fragments directly from tissue samples of bacillary angiomatosis . the dna sequence of these fragments was determined and analyzed for phylogenetic relatedness to other known organisms . normal tissues were studied in parallel . results . tissue from three unrelated patients with bacillary angiomatosis yielded a unique 16s gene sequence . a sequence obtained from a fourth patient with bacillary angiomatosis differed from the sequence found in the other three patients at only 4 of 241 base positions . no related 16s gene fragment was detected in the normal tissues . these 16s sequences associated with bacillary angiomatosis belong to a previously uncharacterized microorganism , most closely related to rochalimaea quintana . conclusions . the cause of bacillary angiomatosis is a previously uncharacterized rickettsia-like organism , closely related to r. quintana . this method for the identification of an uncultured pathogen may be applicable to other infectious diseases of unknown cause . 
clinical and pathological features of bacillary peliosis hepatis in association with human immunodeficiency virus infection background . peliosis hepatis is characterized by cystic , blood-filled spaces in the liver and is seen in patients with chronic infections or advanced cancer and as a consequence of therapy with anabolic steroids . cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis is a bacterial infection that occurs in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection ; its histologic appearance is that of a pseudoneoplastic vascular proliferation . methods . we studied liver tissue from eight hiv-infected patients with peliosis hepatis , two of whom also had cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis . for comparison we examined tissue from four patients who had peliosis hepatis without hiv infection . tissues were examined histologically on routine sections and with special stains and electron microscopy . results . the histologic features seen in peliosis hepatis associated with hiv infection , but not in the four cases unrelated to hiv infection , were myxoid stroma and clumps of a granular purple material that on warthin-starry staining and electron microscopy proved to be bacilli . the bacilli , which could not be cultured , were morphologically identical to those found in the skin lesions of cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis . the clinical courses of two of the patients with this " bacillary peliosis hepatis " indicate that it responds to antibiotic treatment . conclusions . hiv-associated bacillary peliosis hepatis is an unusual , treatable opportunistic infection , probably caused by the same organism that causes cutaneous bacillary angiomatosis . our failure to find bacilli in non-hiv-associated cases implies that other pathogenetic mechanisms may also be responsible for peliosis hepatis . 
a newly recognized fastidious gram-negative pathogen as a cause of fever and bacteremia background . we identified a motile , curved , gram-negative bacillus as the cause of persistent fever and bacteremia in two patients with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection . the same organism was subsequently recovered from a bone marrow-transplant recipient with septicemia and from two immunocompetent persons with week-long febrile illnesses . all the patients recovered after antimicrobial therapy . methods and results . primary cultures of blood processed by centrifugation after blood-cell lysis yielded adherent , white , iridescent , morphologically heterogeneous colonies in 5 to 15 days . subcultures grew in four days on chocolate , charcoal-yeast extract , or blood agar . the organisms stained weakly with safranin and were not acid-fast . fluorescent-antibody tests for legionella and francisella were negative . biochemical reactivity was minimal and difficult to ascertain . agar-dilution testing revealed in vitro susceptibility to most antimicrobial agents tested . the cellular fatty acid composition of the isolates was similar , resembling that of rochalimaea quintana or brucella species , but not helicobacter pylori or species of campylobacter or legionella . as resolved by gel electrophoresis , cell-membrane preparations of all isolates contained similar proteins , with patterns that differed from that of r. quintana . patterns of digestion of dna from all isolates by ecorv restriction endonuclease were virtually identical and also differed from that of r. quintana . on immunodiffusion , serum from one convalescent patient produced a line of identity with sonicates of all five isolates . conclusions . this pathogen may have been unidentified until now because of its slow growth , broad susceptibility to antimicrobial agents , and possible requirement of blood-cell lysis for recovery in culture . it should be sought as a cause of unexplained fever , especially in persons with defective cell-mediated immunity . 
seizures and other neurologic sequelae of bacterial meningitis in children . background . although the mortality rate among children with bacterial meningitis has decreased dramatically in recent decades , some patients are left with neurologic sequelae . it has not been clearly established which features of the acute illness predict the chronic neurologic sequelae , including late seizures or epilepsy . methods . we followed 185 infants and children prospectively during and after acute bacterial meningitis . the mean duration of follow-up was 8.9 years ( range , 0.1 to 15.5 ) . during the first six years standard neurologic examinations were performed ; telephone interviews were conducted thereafter . results . one month after meningitis , 69 children ( 37 percent ) had neurologic abnormalities . many of these signs resolved within a year , leaving only 26 children ( 14 percent ) with persistent deficits : 18 ( 10 percent ) had only sensorineural hearing loss , and 8 ( 4 percent ) had multiple neurologic deficits . thirteen children ( 7 percent ) had one or more late seizures not associated with fever . the presence of persistent neurologic deficits indicative of cerebral injury was the only independent predictor of late afebrile seizures ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions . after bacterial meningitis only children with permanent neurologic deficits are at high risk for epilepsy . those with normal examinations after the acute illness have an excellent change of escaping serious neurologic sequelae , including epilepsy . 
the sequelae of haemophilus influenzae meningitis in school-age children . background . previous data on the consequences of haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis for school-age children have been inconsistent , and much of the information on risk factors has been inconclusive . the present study was designed to evaluate the sequelae of this disease with a protocol for the comprehensive assessment of neuropsychological function . methods . ninety-seven school-age children ( mean age , 9.6 years ) , each of whom had a school-age sibling , were recruited from a survey of the medical records of 519 children treated for h. influenzae type b meningitis between 1972 and 1984 ( at a mean age of 17 months ) at the children 's hospitals of toronto , ottawa , and montreal . of the 97 children , 41 had had an acute neurologic complication . sequelae were assessed by comparing the index children with their nearest siblings on the basis of standardized measures of cognitive , academic , and behavioral status . results . only 14 children ( 14 percent ) had persisting neurologic sequelae : sensorineural hearing loss in 11 ( unilateral in 6 and bilateral in 5 ) , seizure disorder in 2 , and hemiplegia and mental retardation in 1 . although the total sample of index children scored slightly below the siblings in reading ability , the 56 children without acute-phase neurologic complications ( 58 percent ) were indistinguishable from their siblings on all measures . the differences between the groups were small even for the 41 pairs in which the index child had had an acute neurologic complication ( mean full-scale iq , 102 for the index children vs. 109 for the siblings ) . sequelae were also associated with lower socioeconomic status and a lower ratio of glucose in cerebrospinal fluid to that in blood at the time of the meningitis . behavioral problems were more prominent in index boys than index girls and in those who were older at the time of testing , but sex and age were not related to cognitive or academic sequelae . conclusions . we find a favorable prognosis for the majority of children who are treated for meningitis caused by h. influenzae type b. 
whither short-course chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis ? short-course chemotherapy is well established for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis but not for extrapulmonary disease . we present a series of 35 cases in which chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis was given for a period of less than 2 years . short-term therapy was associated with recrudescence of tuberculous meningitis and , in some cases , with the development of deep cerebral infarcts and permanent neurological deficits . we think short-term chemotherapy for tuberculosis of the central nervous system is inadequate . 
chronic lyme disease with an expansive granulomatous lesion in the cerebellopontine angle . expansive granulomatous lesions in the posterior cranial fossa are rare and have not been reported in conjunction with lyme disease . we report a patient with verified borrelia burgdorferi infection who developed a tumor in the cerebellopontine angle . rapid growth of the tumor led to signs of cerebral compression and to hydrocephalus . surgical intervention was required despite florid meningitis . the histological examination showed inflammatory , nonspecific granulation tissue . the origin of this tissue is almost certainly causally related to the b. burgdorferi infection . signs of inflammation resolved rapidly after subtotal resection . the clinical , radiological , and biochemical course is documented . this is the first report of an expansive cerebral lesion in the chronic phase of lyme disease . 
infectious intracranial aneurysms : comparison of groups with and without endocarditis . a series of 12 patients with infectious intracranial aneurysms is presented , and a number of unusual features of the disorder are emphasized . a comparison of characteristics of the aneurysms and clinical course is made between patients with and without infective endocarditis . most of the unusual characteristics of infectious aneurysms , including rare locations , causative organisms , and predisposing medical conditions , occurred in the group without endocarditis . the relationship of atypical features of infectious aneurysms to the etiology of aneurysm formation is discussed , and an approach to treatment is presented . 
streptococcus bovis meningitis : report of 2 cases . we describe 2 cases of streptococcus bovis meningitis and review the 9 cases previously reported . this microorganism is a rare cause of meningitis in which there are no distinctive clinical or laboratory features . the gram stain of the csf is usually negative . ten of the 11 cases had some underlying disease or comorbid condition that predisposed to s bovis infection : gastrointestinal disorder , endocarditis , csf leak , polymyalgia rheumatica , and mandibular block . treatment with high-dose penicillin is usually adequate . 
pelvic pain and infections . infectious etiologies of both acute and chronic pelvic pain are common and may involve multiple organ systems . in the evaluation of the acute pain , it is important to remember that rapidity of diagnosis is important because of the possibility of significant morbidity and even death if a condition is not attended to rapidly . in recent years , laparoscopic evaluation of the pelvis has provided a better understanding of the pathophysiology of some of these infections , as well as possible therapeutic maneuvers . the evaluation of chronic pelvic pain requires a thorough attempt at careful diagnosis with minds open to the possibility that other organ systems besides the genital tract may be involved . laparoscopy also may be an important diagnostic and therapeutic tool in the evaluation of the sequelae of pelvic inflammation leading to chronic pelvic pain . all therapeutic modalities that are instituted on the basis of the diagnostic evaluation must take into consideration that a strong emotional component is generally associated with chronic pelvic pain . such components must be addressed in order to achieve the best possible results for the patient . 
the prevalence of cardiac valvular pathosis in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . the purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of valvular pathosis in a population of patients with sle , to assess the candidacy of such patients for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental treatment . the hospital records of 112 patients with sle were reviewed and screened for endocarditis , heart murmurs , and other valvular pathosis . two of the 112 patients had confirmed cases of bacterial endocarditis . this prevalence is comparable to endocarditis prevalence rates in patients with prosthetic valves and is also three times that in patients with rheumatic heart disease . the high prevalence of endocarditis in this population of patients with sle suggests that according to present perspectives on patient management , patients with sle should be considered for antibiotic prophylaxis before dental therapies associated with formation of a bacteremia . 
oral histoplasmosis as a presenting disease in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ published erratum appears in oral surg oral med oral pathol 1991 jan ; 71 ( 1 ) :76 ] a 43-year-old homosexual man visited his dentist with painful , nodular , ulcerated lesions on the soft palate , right buccal mucosa , and right posterior maxillary gingiva . serologic studies for exposure to human immunodeficiency virus , performed before biopsy , were positive . biopsy of the maxillary gingiva demonstrated sheets of histiocytes containing small intracellular yeasts , which on culture were identified as histoplasma capsulatum . bilateral leukoplakic lesions with some vertical furrowing involving the lateral borders of the tongue were also noted . histologically , hyperkeratosis and fungal hyphae were identified . the patient was treated for histoplasmosis with amphotericin b , which resulted in significant improvement of the oral lesions . he was subsequently hospitalized for fatigue and dyspnea and was found to have pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . pulmonary status deteriorated within a 3-week period , and the patient died . autopsy findings were negative for histoplasmosis but positive for necrotizing and cavitary p. carinii pneumonia , pulmonary and hepatic herpes simplex infections , and pulmonary and intestinal cytomegalovirus infection . 
apical closure of mature molar roots with the use of calcium hydroxide . calcium hydroxide may induce apical root closure in affected mature teeth as well as in immature teeth . once an apical hard tissue barrier is formed , a permanent root canal filling can be safely condensed . two cases are described in which calcium hydroxide induced apical root closure in mature molar teeth where the apical constriction was lost because of chronic inflammatory process . 
nosocomial bacteremias in measles . the purpose of this study was to determine whether nosocomial bacteremias occurred more frequently in patients admitted with severe measles compared with general pediatric admissions . in a retrospective survey of 977 blood culture reports during a 4-year period , 1985 to 1988 , the incidence of nosocomial bacteremias in patients with measles was found to be on the average of 3.37 / 100 admissions/year , approximately 6 times that of general pediatric patients ( 0.57 ) . gram-negative organisms ( predominantly klebsiella and salmonella species ) accounted for 86.5 % of all isolates from measles patients , with 23 % of these being multiply antibiotic-resistant . all the isolates from the general patients were fully susceptible to antibiotics . the duration of hospitalization was more than doubled in both groups of affected patients . the onset of hospital-acquired bacteremias occurred on an average of 11.2 days after admission in the patients with measles and 20.5 days in the general patients . our findings revealed that nosocomial bacteremias occurred with greater frequency in patients with measles and contributed to the morbidity of these patients . 
thrombocytosis after pneumonia with empyema and other bacterial infections in children . thrombocytosis is seen in association with many conditions , including infectious diseases . we studied thrombocytosis after severe bacterial infections , particularly pneumonia with empyema in children . a systematic survey of the phenomenon was conducted . twenty-seven children admitted for pneumonia with empyema were studied . thrombocytosis ( platelet counts greater than 500 x 10 ( 3 ) / microliters ) was present in 92.5 % . platelet counts reached their maximum at 15.1 + / - 3.7 days ( range , 7 to 25 ) and declined to normal after 3 weeks of illness . compared with a healthy control group , significant thrombocytosis , but of lower incidence , was also noted in children with lobar pneumonia without pleural effusion , bacterial meningitis and osteomyelitis . platelet functions were examined in seven of the children but no abnormalities were observed . bone marrow aspiration of three children with pneumonia and empyema showed megakaryocytic hyperplasia . we found no correlation between thrombocytosis , neutrophilia , fever , the clinical course , complications , prognosis or treatment . neither thromboembolic nor hemorrhagic phenomena were observed . 
central nervous system tuberculosis in children : a review of 30 cases . the medical records of 30 children with central nervous system tuberculosis ( cns tuberculosis ) who were treated between march , 1976 , and february , 1989 , were reviewed . all had cranial computerized tomography scans at presentation . the mean cerebrospinal fluid leukocyte count was 200/mm3 , protein 239 mg/dl , glucose 25 mg/dl and csf/serum glucose ratio 21 % . mantoux skin tests with 5 tuberculin units were greater than or equal to 10 mm induration in 50 % , and chest radiographs were positive in 40 % of patients . hydrocephalus was demonstrated by cranial computerized tomography in all 30 patients ( 100 % ) . cranial computerized tomography scan demonstrating hydrocephalus is a sensitive radiographic nervous system tuberculosis and should be part of the early evaluation of children with suspected central nervous system tuberculosis . 
the use of prophylactic furazolidone to control a nosocomial epidemic of multiply resistant salmonella typhimurium in pediatric wards . the nosocomial spread of enteric pathogens is often difficult to control in overcrowded pediatric wards . during 1983 and 1984 , despite cohorting of patients and enforced hand washing , more than 200 cases of nosocomial multiply resistant salmonella typhimurium phage type r-9 were observed on two adjacent pediatric wards . most cases occurred during the summer months . after 19 new cases were detected early in the summer of 1985 , oral administration of furazolidone throughout their entire hospital stay ( 2.5 mg/kg twice daily ) was recommended for all subsequently hospitalized infants . among the 114 ( 65 % ) infants who were appropriately treated , only one additional case ( 1 % ) was detected . in contrast 11 ( 19 % ) cases occurred among the 59 infants who were inappropriately treated : 5 of 35 ( 14 % ) of those who were not treated and 6 of 24 ( 25 % ) in whom treatment with furazolidone was delayed greater than 24 hours ( p less than 0.001 between the appropriately and inappropriately treated groups ) . in pediatric wards where infection control measures can not be optimally applied , prophylactic furazolidone administration may be helpful in preventing the spread of enteric pathogens . 
safety evaluation of prp-d haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccine in children immunized at 18 months of age and older : follow-up study of 30,000 children . we evaluated the safety of the prp-d conjugate hib vaccine ( prohibit , connaught ) in 29,309 children vaccinated at 18-60 months of age in the southern california kaiser permanente medical clinics during the period april 1 , 1988 , to july 31 , 1989 . surveillance for potential reactions involved postcard questionnaires , telephone surveys , reports of kaiser staff and review of hospitalizations and covered two periods following immunization : ( 1 ) the first 48 hours and ( 2 ) days 2 through 30 . surveillance for invasive hib disease involved the above methods in addition to systematic reviews of laboratory and hospital records through january 31 , 1990 . rates of local and systemic reactions within 48 hours of vaccination with prp-d alone were low ( less than or equal to 2 % for fever greater than 102 degrees f , local redness or swelling ) and similar to those previously reported after vaccination with prp . hospitalization and seizures ( 0.15 % and 0.09 % of vaccinated children , respectively ) occurring within 1 month of immunization appeared to be unrelated to vaccination . one 29-month-old child had onset of a fatal episode of hib sepsis/meningitis within 48 hours of vaccination . also , a 30-month-old child developed hib meningitis 10 months after prp-d vaccination . we conclude that prp-d is safe when given alone or in combination with other childhood vaccines between 18 and 60 months of age . 
case-control study of cryptosporidium parvum infection in peruvian children hospitalized for diarrhea : possible association with malnutrition and nosocomial infection . a retrospective , hospital-based case-control study was used to investigate whether there were any clinical characteristics that could distinguish cryptosporidium parvum-infected children with diarrhea from other non-c . parvum-infected children with diarrhea . ten percent ( 24 of 248 ) of children admitted to a rehydration ward at cayetano heredia university hospital , lima , peru , were infected with c. parvum . the 24 patients infected with c. parvum ( cases ) were matched to an equal number of noninfected patients ( controls ) . c. parvum-infected patients were more likely to be malnourished than were children without this infection ( p less than 0.05 ) . also nosocomial infection caused by c. parvum occurred in three severely malnourished patients , two of whom died . no other clinical or laboratory characteristics were found that would distinguish children with diarrhea caused by c. parvum from other children with diarrhea . in children hospitalized for diarrhea c. parvum infection occurs most frequently in malnourished children . 
immunogenicity of haemophilus b conjugate vaccine ( meningococcal protein conjugate ) in children with prior invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease . children younger than 2 years of age with previous invasive haemophilus influenzae ( hib ) type b disease may not develop protective antibodies to antigens of hib and may be at risk of developing a second episode of hib disease . twenty-three children with prior hib disease were immunized with haemophilus b conjugate vaccine ( meningococcal protein conjugate ) . children 12 to 24 months of age were given one dose of vaccine and children younger than 12 months of age were given 2 doses 2 months apart . antibody to the polysaccharide capsule of hib ( prp ) was measured by radioimmunoassay . eighteen children had preimmunization serum antibody concentrations less than 0.150 micrograms/ml . all 18 children responded with greater than 0.150 micrograms/ml of antibody after a single dose of vaccine . only 1 of the 23 children had a preimmunization serum antibody concentration greater than 1.000 micrograms/ml . seventeen children ultimately responded with greater than 1.000 micrograms/ml of antibody ( p less than 0.0001 ) , concentrations of antibody thought to correlate with protection . haemophilus b conjugate vaccine ( meningococcal protein conjugate ) is immunogenic in children with invasive hib disease . children younger than 2 years of age with invasive hib disease should be subsequently immunized with a hib conjugate vaccine . 
clinical features of adenovirus enteritis : a review of 127 cases . we retrospectively analyzed the clinical features of 127 hospitalized pediatric patients whose fecal samples were positive for adenovirus ( ad ) by electron microscopy during an 18-month period . serotyping results obtained by microneutralization tests and restriction endonuclease analysis were available for 105 of 127 cases . there were 69 males and 58 females and 94 % of patients were less than 4 years of age . the average body temperature was 38 degrees c rectal ( range , 36.2-40 .8 degrees c ) with an average duration of fever of 1.6 days . the average duration of clinical illness was 8.8 days ( range , 1 to 32 days ) . although ad 40 and ad 41 were isolated in the majority of cases ( 59 of 105 ( 56 % ] , ad 31 was associated with 18 of 105 cases ( 17 % ) . of the 18 cases associated with ad 31 , 14 were nosocomial and associated with diarrhea . our survey confirms the importance of fastidious enteric ad in infantile diarrhea ( ad 40 , ad 41 ) and suggests that ad 31 produces a clinical syndrome indistinguishable from that caused by ad 40 and ad 41 . the occurrence of ad enteritis in patients admitted for unrelated illnesses well after initial hospitalization suggests that ad is also an important cause of nosocomial enteritis in our hospital . 
dexamethasone effects on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia who are dependent on artificial ventilation . a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of enterally administered dexamethasone on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . a total of 23 infants with a birth weight less than 1500 g who were dependent on artificial ventilation 3 to 4 weeks of age received dexamethasone ( n = 12 ) or saline placebo ( n = 11 ) . dexamethasone ( 0.5 mg/kg per day ) was given in tapering doses for 7 days followed by hydrocortisone ( 8 mg/kg per day ) which was progressively reduced for a total of 17 days of therapy . infants who received dexamethasone required less oxygen on days 8 and 17 ( p less than .05 ) and were more likely to extubate 8 days after therapy than infants in the control group ( respectively 8/12 vs 3/11 infants , p less than .05 ; p = .12 after yates correction ) . the use of dexamethasone significantly shortened median duration of mechanical ventilation ( 4 vs 22 days , p less than .05 ) but had no effect on length of oxygen therapy , hospitalization , home oxygen therapy , occurrence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity , rate of growth , and mortality . no significant complications resulted from dexamethasone therapy . measurements of plasma dexamethasone levels confirmed the absorption of drug from the gastrointestinal tract ( 23.7 ng/ml in dexamethasone vs 4.6 ng/ml in the control group , p less than .05 ) . dexamethasone administration resulted in short-term improvements in pulmonary function but did not ameliorate the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . 
health assessment of the early adolescent . challenges and clinical issues . although early adolescence spans only 4 years , it is a critical time in the life of a young person in forming opinions and selecting options . specific attention to the growing and changing needs of this population is imperative if their health status is to improve . 
mycoplasmal pneumonia . are you thinking of atypical presentations ? the presentations of mycoplasmal pneumonia can be varied and sometimes complicated . the atypical nature of this illness , as opposed to the clear pattern of findings in classic bacterial pneumonias , leads the physician to the diagnosis . appropriate therapy then allows quick improvement as a rule , with few sequelae . 
a rhesus monkey model for sexual transmission of a papillomavirus isolated from a squamous cell carcinoma . recently we molecularly cloned and characterized a papillomavirus from a lymph node metastasis of a primary penile carcinoma found in a rhesus monkey ; this virus species , rhesus papillomavirus type 1 ( rhpv-1 ) , is similar to oncogenic human papillomaviruses ( hpvs ) , such as hpv-16 or hpv-18 , in that the rhpv-1 dna was found to be integrated in the tumor cell dna . to compare the sexual transmission and oncogenic nature of rhpv-1 with these hpvs , we undertook an extensive retrospective study of a group of rhesus monkeys whose sexual mating and offspring histories were known . these animals had mated directly with the index male mentioned above or were secondarily exposed to this virus through intermediate sexual partners . this study combines cytological , histopathological , and several complementary hybridization and dna amplification techniques on multiple tissue samples to demonstrate the sexually transmitted nature of rhpv-1 . the oncogenic potential of rhpv-1 is suggested in several of the infected animals by the presence of various degrees of neoplasia including squamous cell cancer of the cervix . 
antibiotic therapy for common infections . several important points regarding the treatment of urinary tract infections should be made . single-dose and short-course antibiotic therapy is appropriate only for women with acute bacterial cystitis due to e. coli . studies comparing single-dose to full-course therapy have not been sufficiently designed to draw valid statistical conclusions , and only tmp/smx is recommended at this time . recurrent uti in women is almost always due to reinfection , which is best managed by prophylactic antibiotics . acute bronchitis and acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis are often due to viral infections , and therefore antibiotic therapy is not always needed . in acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis , the clearest success rates for antibiotic therapy have been in patients , who have all three of the following symptoms : increased dyspnea , increased sputum production , and sputum purulence . mupirocin is an important addition to the agents used to treat bacterial skin infections due to streptococcal and staphylococcal strains . in impetigo , mupirocin has been demonstrated to be as effective or superior to oral erythromycin . in prostatitis , data on the fluoroquinolones appears impressive , but further comparative trials are needed . they may become first-line , empiric therapy . the newer oral antibiotics are not recommended as initial , empiric therapy in the outpatient management of common infections , with the possible exception of the treatment of prostatitis . these newer agents may be more important in the treatment of recurrent or resistant infections . 
early postoperative care of the cardiac transplantation patient : routine considerations and immunosuppressive therapy . the authors have attempted to outline the current state of the art with respect to the early postoperative management of the cardiac transplant recipient with special attention to immunosuppressive therapies . the commonly used agents , as well as the most successful combination regimens , have been described along with the current levels of expectation regarding rates of rejection and infection . much has been learned regarding the management of these problems . much remains to be learned to further decrease the incidence of postoperative infection and rejection and , equally if not more importantly , studies to investigate the etiology of transplant coronary artery disease need to be undertaken such that measures to delay or prevent its occurrence and/or arrest its progression can be instituted . 
bacterial tracheitis : report of eight new cases and review . bacterial tracheitis , previously referred to as nondiphtheritic laryngitis with marked exudate , was commonly discussed in pediatric textbooks before 1940 . it seemed to disappear as a clinical entity after that time , but it has been recorded with increasing frequency in the pediatric literature since 1979 . we describe eight new cases and review 110 previously described cases . the clinical course consists of a prodromal upper respiratory illness with stridor , fever , and a variable degree of respiratory distress . unlike patients with croup , patients with bacterial tracheitis do not respond to aerosolized racemic epinephrine . most patients require endotracheal intubation ; some require tracheostomy . reported complications include pneumonia , pneumothorax , formation of pseudomembranes , toxic shock syndrome , and cardiopulmonary arrest . bacterial tracheitis is a secondary bacterial infection following a primary viral respiratory infection . the most common preceding viral infection is parainfluenza . staphylococcus aureus and haemophilus influenzae are the predominant causes of bacterial tracheitis . secondary bacterial infection may occur as a result of tracheal mucosal injury or impairment of normal phagocytic function due to viral infection . 
hypercalcitoninemia , hypocalcemia , and toxic shock syndrome . toxic shock syndrome is a multisystem illness frequently complicated by hypocalcemia . the etiology of the hypocalcemia , which may be severe , is not well understood . we report two cases of fatal toxic shock syndrome accompanied by severe hypocalcemia ; each patient also had an inappropriately elevated serum calcitonin level , which in one case was as high as 179,000 pg/ml . hypercalcitoninemia may be a cause of the low serum calcium levels as well as of certain clinical manifestations of toxic shock syndrome . 
brucella endocarditis : the role of combined medical and surgical treatment . brucella endocarditis , although a rare complication of brucellosis , is the main cause of death related to this disease . this report describes a case of aortic endocarditis due to brucella abortus in an elderly farmer with known aortic stenosis . urgent valve replacement was performed because of progressive heart failure despite appropriate antimicrobial treatment . the infection was cured with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and rifampin given for 3 months after surgery . a review of the literature reports on the 38 other cases of cured brucella endocarditis made clear the need for combined antimicrobial treatment and surgical valve replacement . 
tuberculous psoas muscle abscess following chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection . a 34-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus infection and disseminated mycobacterium avium and mycobacterium intracellulare infection developed a right psoas muscle abscess due to mycobacterium tuberculosis . the abscess occurred 18 months after completion of a 12-month course of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid that was given because of a positive reaction with purified protein derivative of tuberculin . the adjacent vertebrae did not appear to be involved . the abscess was drained with a percutaneously inserted catheter , and he received standard antituberculous chemotherapy . three weeks into therapy , a second drainage with a catheter was required . the isolation of two mycobacteria in this patient and the apparent failure of chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid are noted . 
resolution of lung abscess due to pseudomonas aeruginosa with oral ciprofloxacin : case report . a case of lung abscess due to pseudomonas aeruginosa is presented that did not resolve with the use of conventional antipseudomonal antibiotics , including tobramycin with ticarcillin-clavulanate and ceftazidime with gentamicin and ticarcillin-clavulanate . oral ciprofloxacin was administered for 12 weeks , and the infection was resolved . no resistance occurred , and there was no recurrence of abscess within 18 months following therapy . 
pulmonary and disseminated infection due to mycobacterium kansasii : a decade of experience . fifty-five patients with mycobacterium kansasii isolates ( 47 pulmonary and eight disseminated ) were identified at a large texas hospital from 1975 to 1985 . the mean age of patients was 60 years , and there was a slight male predominance . isolation of m. kansasii usually represented disease . the great majority of patients with pulmonary infection due to m. kansasii had underlying pulmonary diseases , and 70 % had nonpulmonary predisposing factors . m. kansasii pulmonary disease clinically and radiographically resembled pulmonary tuberculosis . disseminated m. kansasii infection occurred in severely immunocompromised patients , who frequently had pulmonary predispositions as well . disseminated infection most of ten involved the lung , reticuloendothelial system , bone , joint , and skin and presented with signs and symptoms related to these organs . despite only moderate in vitro susceptibility of m. kansasii to routine antituberculous drugs , most patients responded to rifampin-containing regimens . the prognosis of patients with m. kansasii disease was determined primarily by their underlying diseases . 
spectrum of cryptococcus neoformans infection in 68 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus . sixty-eight patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and cryptococcus neoformans who presented to three major medical centers in new orleans , louisiana , were studied retrospectively . in patients with meningitis the most common presenting symptoms were fever and headache . those without central nervous system involvement generally had an isolated pulmonary infection due to c. neoformans and presented with cough and dyspnea . csf parameters were abnormal in 41 % of patients , and the india ink preparation was positive in 88 % of patients with cultures of csf positive for c. neoformans . the overall median survival time for the 47 patients who died was 5 months , with a range of 0-22 months . of the 27 patients who received maintenance therapy with amphotericin b , two ( 7 % ) relapsed . the only factors found to be associated with a poor prognosis were abnormal computed tomography of the head and altered mental status on presentation . c. neoformans infections in hiv-infected patients remain difficult to treat and have a poor prognosis . 
comparison of species distribution and antimicrobial susceptibility of aerobic actinomycetes from clinical specimens . to compare the species distribution and antimicrobial susceptibility of aerobic actinomycetes , we evaluated 366 isolates referred to the centers for disease control from october 1985 through february 1988 . we used conventional biochemical tests to identify the various species . four species accounted for 191 ( 52 % ) of aerobic actinomycete isolates : nocardia asteroides ( 98 isolates ) , actinomadura madurae ( 42 isolates ) , streptomyces griseus ( 28 isolates ) , and nocardia brasiliensis ( 23 isolates ) . sputum and wounds were the most common sources . no isolate was resistant to amikacin , no n. brasiliensis isolate was resistant to sulfamethoxazole or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole , and no a. madurae isolate was resistant to ceftriaxone or imipenem . in summary , our findings show that unusual species of aerobic actinomycetes can cause infection , colonization , or both and that antimicrobial resistance varies markedly by species . 
a case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis the group b streptococcus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a variety of serious infections including bacteremias , puerperal sepsis , and neonatal meningitis . group b streptococcal infections of muscle are rare . we report here an unusual case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis . pyomyositis arises predominantly from infections caused by staphylococcus aureus and , occasionally , streptococcus pyogenes . because of the rarity of pyomyositis in temperate climates , the common lack of localizing signs or symptoms , and the frequently negative blood cultures , considerable delay often precedes the diagnosis of pyomyositis ; in fact , the infection has been initially misdiagnosed as muscle hematoma , cellulitis , thrombophlebitis , osteomyelitis , or neoplasm . diagnosis may be greatly aided by radiologic techniques that can demonstrate the sites of muscle enlargement and the presence of fluid collections . the response to antibiotics is usually rapid , but resolution of the infection may require aspiration of deeply situated muscle abscesses . this report describes a diabetic patient with an unusual presentation of pyomyositis that mimicked an acute abdomen . 
pneumococcal endometritis and neonatal sepsis . a recent case of postpartum maternal endometritis and neonatal sepsis due to streptococcus pneumoniae prompted this report and a review of previous citations . although this rare presentation of pneumococcal infection is potentially fatal to both mother and child , early empiric antibiotic coverage for the most frequent etiologic agents of this syndrome , group b streptococci , was and is adequate for systemic pneumococcal infections . 
visceral protothecosis mimicking sclerosing cholangitis in an immunocompetent host : successful antifungal therapy . a healthy 39-year-old man who had clinical findings consistent with sclerosing cholangitis was found to have systemic protothecosis at surgery . severe granulomatous inflammation and palpable nodules were found in the gallbladder , on the surface of the liver , and in the duodenum . prototheca wickerhamii was detected in biopsied specimens and stool ; the titer of indirect fluorescent antibody to this organism was 1:2,000 . the patient recovered after a short course of treatment with amphotericin b and 3 months of oral therapy with ketoconazole . he had no other concurrent illness and had no abnormality in his immune system . this is the second reported human case of systemic protothecosis . an elevated igg level , an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate , eosinophilia , and abnormal levels of enzymes in the liver were found in both cases . protothecosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of hepatic and biliary inflammatory diseases of uncertain etiology . 
enterobacter bacteremia in pediatric patients . enterobacter has emerged as an important human pathogen , particularly in sick , hospitalized patients . previous reports of nonepidemic enterobacter bacteremia have focused on adult patients . in this report , the epidemiologic factors , clinical characteristics , treatment , and outcome for 33 patients with enterobacter bacteremia in a large children 's hospital during a 5-year period are reviewed . the ratio of males to females was 1.2:1 . the patients ' ages ranged from 2 days to 24 years , and 18 patients were less than 18 months old . twenty-two cases were nosocomially acquired ; six were polymicrobial in nature . significantly underlying conditions were present in 32 patients . the biliary tract and central venous catheters were the most common sources of bacteremia . two-thirds of patients had preceding antibiotic therapy . the overall mortality was 24 % ; mortality attributable to enterobacter bacteremia was 18 % . statistically significant differences in mortality were associated with an age less than 18 months ( p = .031 ) or thrombocytopenia ( p = .017 ) ; presence of fever was of borderline significance ( p = .098 ) . enterobacter bacteremia is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in pediatric patients . 
endocarditis due to ampicillin-resistant nontyphoid salmonella : cure with a third-generation cephalosporin . a case of ampicillin-resistant salmonella bacteremia complicated by endocarditis in a 78-year-old man is presented . previous rheumatic valvular heart disease and the lack of response to initial treatment with chloramphenicol prompted us to consider this diagnosis . there was a good clinical response after treatment with ceftriaxone alone and corresponding improvement on the echocardiogram . this case demonstrates the possible endovascular complications of salmonella bacteremia in elderly people and that endocarditis should be included among the invasive infections due to ampicillin-resistant salmonella that could potentially be treated with the newer cephalosporins . 
listerial myocarditis in cardiac transplantation . clinical signs of heart failure developed in two cardiac transplant recipients and were interpreted initially as graft rejection . morphologic examination of explanted hearts revealed myocarditis with abscess formation and necrosis consistent with a bacterial process ; listeria monocytogenes was isolated from myocardial tissue in the first case and from blood in both . the first patient also developed signs of meningoencephalitis , but the second had no signs of infection outside the heart . antimicrobial therapy and retransplantation were successful in eradicating listeriosis . the differential diagnosis of heart failure in cardiac transplant recipients includes infectious myocarditis due to l. monocytogenes . 
group c streptococcal arthritis : case report and review . streptococci account for approximately 15 % -20 % of cases of nongonococcal septic arthritis . the majority of these are due to group a streptococci , but group b and group g streptococci are being isolated more frequently . we present a case of group c streptococcal arthritis and summarize nine additional cases reported in the literature . the group c streptococci include the large colony of voges-proskauer-negative bacteria ( streptococcus equi , streptococcus equisimilis , streptococcus zooepidemicus , and streptococcus dysgalactiae ) as well as as the minute colony of voges-proskauer-positive streptococcus anginosus ( " streptococcus milleri " ) group c organisms . any joint may become infected , but joints affected by preexisting rheumatologic abnormalities are more frequently involved . bacteremia was documented in five of the 10 patients . one patient had an associated pneumonia , and another patient had an associated acute aortic valve endocarditis . none of the infections involved a prosthetic joint or an overlying cellulitis , associations reported for group g streptococcal arthritis . surgical drainage of the infected joint was required in six of the 10 patients . we concluded that the presence of two groups of organisms sharing the same lancefield group antigen necessitates the careful identification of isolates to determine potential clinical differences . 
primary meningococcal conjunctivitis : report of 21 patients and review . neisseria meningitidis is an uncommon cause of acute bacterial conjunctivitis . twenty-one cases of primary meningococcal conjunctivitis ( pmc ) are reported herein and 63 cases published in the literature since 1899 are reviewed . in the 84 cases of pmc available for analysis , the male-to-female ratio was 1.76:1 ; nine of the patients were neonates , 55 were children , and 20 were adults . conjunctivitis was unilateral in 66.3 % of the patients . gram stain of conjunctival exudate disclosed gram-negative diplococci in all cases in which it was done . culture of the conjunctival exudate yielded n. meningitidis in all cases , and 44 % of the isolated meningococci belonged to serogroup b. ocular complications , which occurred in 15.5 % of the patients , most frequently were corneal ulcers . systemic meningococcal disease developed in 17.8 % of the patients ; the overall mortality was 13.3 % for patients with pmc complicated by systemic disease . development of systemic disease was significantly more frequent in patients receiving only topical therapy than in those treated with systemic therapy ( 31.71 % vs. 2.38 % ; p = .001 ) . gram-negative diplococci observed in conjunctival exudate are an indication for systemic antibiotic therapy because of the risk of systemic complications associated with the use of topical therapy alone . when properly treated , patients with pmc have a favorable prognosis . 
quinolone antibiotics in the treatment of salmonella infections the 4-fluoroquinolones are a new class of antimicrobial agents that possess broad in vitro antibacterial activity , including efficacy against enteric pathogens such as salmonella , shigella , campylobacter , yersinia , and vibrio species . these drugs are clinically effective against both drug-sensitive and multiresistant strains of salmonella typhi and salmonella paratyphi that cause enteric fever . in salmonella enterocolitis , the quinolones -- unlike older antimicrobial agents that may have little impact on the duration of symptomatic illness and can in fact prolong fecal carriage of salmonellae -- actually shorten the course of clinical disease and terminate excretion of these organisms in the stool . similarly , for chronic carriers of both typhoidal and nontyphoidal salmonella strains , the quinolones are effective in eradicating biliary and fecal reservoirs of infection . immunosuppressed persons with salmonellosis , such as those with aids , may benefit from both short-term treatment and prolonged prophylaxis with a quinolone antibiotic . the optimal agent , dose , and duration of quinolone therapy for all salmonella syndromes remain to be determined by larger controlled trials . 
infectious diseases as a canadian subspecialty , with projections to the year 2000 . infectious diseases is a relatively new subspecialty in canada . during the past decade , however , important advances have been made . these include the formation of the canadian infectious diseases society and the development of the first royal college of physicians and surgeons examinations in the subspecialty of infectious diseases . the majority of canadians training for practice in the field of infectious diseases are now enrolled in programs in canada . despite predictions in the united states of an excess of physicians who specialize in infectious diseases , such a situation has not occurred in canada . more physicians with training in infectious diseases will be required in canada in the next decade to fill positions in patient care , microbiology ( for individuals with both clinical and laboratory training ) , research , epidemiology and infection control , programs related to human immunodeficiency virus infections , geographic and international medicine , the pharmaceutical industry , and education and administration . in canada , the extent to which infectious diseases physicians are involved in these areas varies from that in the united states . this review suggests a continued need for physicians with appropriate training in infectious diseases . 
protection of mice against the lyme disease agent by immunizing with recombinant ospa . lyme borreliosis is a tick-borne illness caused by borrelia burgdorferi . the gene for outer surface protein a ( ospa ) from b. burgdorferi strain n40 was cloned into an expression vector and expressed in escherichia coli . c3h/hej mice actively immunized with live transformed e. coli or purified recombinant ospa protein produced antibodies to ospa and were protected from challenge with several strains of b. burgdorferi . recombinant ospa is a candidate for a vaccine for lyme borreliosis . 
syphilis , human immunodeficiency virus infection , and targeting prevention . to examine the interaction between syphilis and human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection in oklahoma , we conducted an unlinked hiv seroprevalence survey using serum specimens submitted to the oklahoma state department of health for serologic test for syphilis . of specimens with positive results from fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test ( fta-abs ) , 6.3 % were hiv-1 seropositive compared to 0.8 % of those that had negative results from fta-abs . among specimens positive for syphilis , hiv-1 seropositivity was found almost exclusively among those from persons 20 to 39 years of age and more often among those from men than those from women ( 9.9 % vs 1.3 % ) . of syphilis-positive specimens from 20 - to 39-year-old men , 17.6 % were hiv-1 seropositive . in oklahoma , an area with a relatively low overall prevalence of hiv-1 infection , targeting prevention efforts to young adults who test positive for syphilis should be an efficient way to reach some persons at high risk for hiv-1 infection . 
neurologic abnormalities in a patient with human ehrlichiosis . human ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne rickettsial disease characterized by fever , headache , myalgias , anorexia , and occasionally rash . in our patient , changes in mental status , upper motor neuron signs , cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis , and increased serum protein levels were found in association with serologically confirmed ehrlichiosis and were most likely due to vasculitis involving the central nervous system . intraleukocytic inclusions , although observed in our case , have been infrequently found in other reported cases of ehrlichiosis . 
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm complicating mitral valve replacement in a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis . a 4-year-old child with acute bacterial endocarditis required mitral valve replacement . a left ventricular pseudoaneurysm developed following surgery . the etiology and diagnosis of this complication are discussed . 
pleuropulmonary tularemia : successful treatment with erythromycin . a 64-year-old man had community-acquired pneumonia that was retrospectively diagnosed as pleuropulmonary tularemia . he was successfully treated with erythromycin . we review the case and briefly discuss the literature on this point . 
antibodies in human tears during and after infection . the tear content of antibodies specific for various infectious agents has recently begun to be investigated . important parameters of tear analysis with respect to antibody content are the method of tear collection and the laboratory techniques used to detect specific antibodies in the lacrimal fluid . normal tears contain antibodies directed against both bacteria and viruses , and the antibody response in lacrimal fluid during immunization of animals and humans has been studied to some extent . this response has also been analyzed in humans during and after natural infection with certain viral and bacterial pathogens . it has become clear that local antibody synthesis takes place in the lacrimal gland , but at least some of these antibodies appear in tears because of lymphocyte sensitization in the common mucosal immune system . a certain degree of transudation of serum antibodies to tears is also often encountered , especially in severely inflamed eyes . much of the data currently available needs to be confirmed , and more extensive studies need to be carried out for many pathogens . potential benefits of such studies include development of new diagnostic techniques as well as a better understanding of when and how antibodies confer protection or may be potentially damaging . 
hyperbaric oxygen therapy for necrotizing fasciitis reduces mortality and the need for debridements . twenty-nine patients with necrotizing fasciitis were treated from 1980 to 1988 . this study evaluates how the addition of hyperbaric oxygen ( hbo ) therapy to surgical treatment has affected mortality and the number of debridements required to achieve wound control in these patients . two groups of patients were viewed : group 1 ( n = 12 ) received surgical debridement and antibiotics only ; group 2 ( n = 17 ) received hbo ( 90 minutes at 2.5 atm , average 7.4 treatments ) in addition to surgery and antibiotics . both groups were similar in age , race , sex , wound bacteriology , and antimicrobial therapy . body surface area affected was similar , however , perineal involvement was more common in group 2 ( 53 % ) than in group 1 ( 12 % ) . the admitting conditions of patients in group 1 ( non-hbo ) were diabetic , 33 % ; white blood cell count more than 12,000 , 50 % ; and shock , 8 % . the admitting conditions of patients in group 2 ( hbo ) were diabetic , 47 % ; white blood cell count more than 12,000 , 59 % ; and shock , 29 % . although group 2 patients receiving hbo were more seriously ill on admission , mortality was significantly lower ( 23 % ) compared to group 1 ( 66 % ) ( p less than 0.02 ) . in addition , only 1.2 debridements per group 2 patient were required to achieve wound control versus 3.3 debridements per group 1 patient ( p less than 0.03 ) . the addition of hbo therapy to the surgical and antimicrobial treatment of necrotizing fasciitis significantly reduced mortality and wound morbidity ( number of debridements ) in this study , especially among nonclostridial infections . we conclude that hbo should be used routinely in the treatment of necrotizing fasciitis . 
giant basilar aneurysm in the course of subacute bacterial endocarditis . we describe a man aged 42 years with mitral valve regurgitation who suffered from subacute bacterial endocarditis caused by streptococcus morbillorum . the clinical picture began with a toxic syndrome . five months later , the patient had an embolic episode and a right rostral pontine stroke , which was followed a few days later by an adversive focal seizure on the right . despite antibiotic treatment , he suffered complete third nerve palsy . arteriography , magnetic resonance imaging , and computed tomography of the brain showed a giant aneurysm in the rostral end of the basilar artery ; the aneurysm was clipped . we discuss the clinical features , radiology , and characteristics of this aneurysm as a unique case of a giant bacterial aneurysm in the vertebrobasilar system . 
management of peyronie disease by implantation of inflatable penile prosthesis . sixty-seven patients with advanced peyronie disease were treated by implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis ( ipp ) . twenty-eight of the 67 patients had documented total erectile failure . the remaining 39 patients had significant penile curvature causing " mechanical impotence " due to inability to achieve adequate vaginal penetration and chose implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis ( in some cases , combined with a straightening procedure ) rather than one of the standard penile straightening procedures . currently , 63 of the 67 patients have functioning prosthetic devices ; in 3 other patients the device was removed because of infection , and 1 patient was dissatisfied and had the device removed . for impotent patients with severe peyronie disease for whom other medical or surgical treatment is neither desirable nor suitable , we recommend implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis combined with a possible straightening procedure . 
diagnosis and treatment of prostatic infections . the diagnosis and management of prostatitis and pelviperineal pain is a challenge to the clinician . careful examination of the prostatic fluid and bacteriologic cultures to differentiate bacterial from nonbacterial prostatitis are essential . antimicrobial therapy is effective in the majority of men with acute or chronic bacterial prostatitis . nonbacterial prostatitis is the most common type of prostatitis . the etiology is unknown and treatment with repeated antimicrobial therapy is ineffective . alpha-blocking agents may relieve symptomatology . pelviperineal pain may be of prostatic origin but other nonprostatic causes should be sought . 
hiv disease : a review for the family physician . part ii . secondary infections , malignancy and experimental therapy . the first part of this two-part article included recommendations for the initial evaluation of patients suspected of having hiv infection , the centers for disease control 's classification scheme for hiv disease and current recommendations for the use of zidovudine . in this second part , secondary infections and malignancy are reviewed , and various experimental therapies are briefly discussed . 
effects of common illnesses on infants ' energy intakes from breast milk and other foods during longitudinal community-based studies in huascar ( lima ) , peru . to assess the effects of common infections on dietary intake , 131 peruvian infants were observed longitudinally . home surveillance for illness symptoms was completed thrice weekly , and food and breast-milk consumption was measured during 1615 full-day observations . mean ( + / - sd ) energy intakes on symptom-free days were 557 + / - 128 kcal/d ( 92.4 + / - 26.5 kcal.kg-1 . d-1 ) for infants aged less than 181 d and 638 + / - 193 kcal/d ( 77.7 + / - 25.7 kcal.kg-1 . d-1 ) for infants aged greater than 180 d. statistical models controlling for infant age , season of the year , and individual showed significant 5-6 % decreases in total energy intake during diarrhea or fever . there were no changes with illness in the frequency of breast-feeding , total suckling time , or amount of breast-milk energy consumed . by contrast , energy intake from non-breast-milk sources decreased by 20-30 % during diarrhea and fever , and the small decrements in total energy consumption during illness were explained entirely by reduced consumption of non-breast-milk foods . 
bacteremia in an ambulatory setting . improved outcome in children treated with antibiotics . we undertook a study of 414 bacteremic patients ( 167 with haemophilus influenzae and 247 with streptococcus pneumoniae bacteremia ) to evaluate their clinical presentation , laboratory and clinical results , and subsequent outcomes . patients with h influenzae bacteremia were more likely to have soft-tissue foci , poorer clinical appearance at presentation , and be at higher risk for subsequent serious focal infections , persistent bacteremia , and subsequent hospital admissions than patients with s pneumoniae . patients with h influenzae bacteremia had a 21.1-fold increase in risk of meningitis ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] of 3.8 to 78.0 ) compared with those with s pneumoniae . the odds ratio for initial lumbar puncture was 5.25 ( 95 % ci [ 1.1-23 .6 ] ) . ambulatory patients treated with antibiotics at presentation were less likely to develop new serious soft-tissue infections , persistent bacteremia , or to require subsequent hospital admissions than untreated patients . the effect of treatment was greater for patients with s pneumoniae than those with h influenzae . careful follow-up and reevaluation of patients with presumptive bacteremia is essential because treated and untreated patients can still develop serious soft-tissue infections . 
percutaneous central venous catheterization . three years ' experience in a neonatal intensive care unit . prolonged venous access is desirable in very-low-birth-weight infants and infants for whom feedings are contraindicated . we prospectively evaluated 481 small-diameter venous catheters placed percutaneously in 317 patients over 3 years . of 478 catheters , 241 ( 50 % ) were placed in infants weighing 1 kg or less . mean catheter stay was 13 days ( range , less than 1 to 77 days ) . almost half ( 49 % ) of the central and thoracic catheters ( 91 % of placements ) were removed nonelectively : 43 % due to problems such as leaking or clotting and 6 % to suspicion of sepsis or venous occlusion . of the 23 episodes of possible sepsis in the 478 catheter stays , six ( 1.3 % ) were confirmed catheter-related sepsis ; 12 ( 2.5 % ) were confirmed alternate locus sepsis . three factors specific to percutaneous central venous catheter-related sepsis were prolonged catheter stay ( 3 to 5 weeks ) , staphylococcus epidermidis , and weight less than or equal to 1 kg . four factors specific to alternate locus sepsis were presence of an alternate infection site , earlier infection ( 1 to 2 weeks ) , extremely low birth weight , and prolonged clinical instability . percutaneous central venous catheterizations reduced the need for the stress of repeated venipuncture , resulting in lower complication rates than those reported with surgically placed central venous catheters , and leading to identification of risk factors specific to catheter sepsis and alternate locus sepsis . 
" spontaneous sump syndrome " : successful treatment by duodenoscopic sphincterotomy . " sump syndrome " is a rare complication of side-to-side choledochoenterostomy operations which develops in the distal , nonfunctioning limb of the common bile duct where lithogenic bile , gastrointestinal contents , and debris accumulate . we report here a patient who developed spontaneous sump syndrome as a result of the formation of choledochoduodenal fistula , and who presented with multiple pyogenic liver abscesses . the patient 's symptoms and liver abscesses resolved completely after treatment by endoscopic sphincterotomy and antibiotics . this case demonstrates that sump syndrome may occur spontaneously , that it can be a cause for pyogenic liver abscess formation , and that it may be treated effectively by endoscopic sphincterotomy . 
adult and pediatric peritonitis rates in a home dialysis program : comparison of continuous ambulatory and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis . we reviewed our 115-month experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis ( ccpd ) in adult and pediatric patients to determine whether there is a difference in the incidence of peritonitis between patients performing capd or ccpd . peritonitis rates were similar in patients performing capd or ccpd in both the adult and pediatric age groups . the overall capd peritonitis rate was significantly lower in adult patients when compared with pediatric patients . there was no difference in peritonitis rates for ccpd between adult and pediatric patients . when the data are divided into 3-year subgroups , the incidence of peritonitis is significantly lower in adult patients undergoing either capd or ccpd when compared with pediatric patients during the years 1986 to 1988 . there is significant improvement over time in the incidence of peritonitis in both adult and pediatric patients performing ccpd ; similarly , there is a trend toward improvement in patients performing capd . staphylococcus species organisms remain the most common bacterial cause of peritonitis , except in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years or with nephrostomies , where gram-negative rod infections were more common . peritonitis resulted in discontinuation of peritoneal dialysis in a greater number of adult patients . these results suggest that the number of catheter manipulations is not important in determining the incidence of peritonitis . pediatric patients are more likely than adult patients to develop peritonitis with either capd or ccpd . adult patients are more likely than pediatric patients to discontinue peritoneal dialysis secondary to peritonitis . 
epidemiology of lyme disease in virginia . prior to january 1986 , only one case of lyme disease was reported from virginia . in 1986-87 , however , the virginia department of health observed an increase in reports of suspected lyme disease by physicians , despite the fact that ixodes dammini is not highly prevalent in the virginia tick population . twenty-eight cases of lyme disease were identified in virginia , of which eight cases occurred in 1986 and 20 in 1987 . lyme disease appears to be increasing in frequency in virginia and moving southward along the eastern atlantic seaboard . 
use of intrapleural streptokinase in the treatment of thoracic empyema . the incidence of pleural effusions in bacterial pneumonia may exceed 40 % , a factor that may be related to increased morbidity and mortality . options in the treatment of complicated pleural effusions or empyema , when unresponsive to closed tube drainage , include repositioning of the indwelling tube thoracostomy or insertion of additional chest tubes , instillation of intrapleural streptokinase , and surgical intervention . the authors describe the course of three patients wherein the use of intrapleural streptokinase was efficacious in effecting prompt drainage of previously inadequately evacuated empyema , thus eliminating the necessity for further invasive intervention . 
antenatal microbiologic and maternal risk factors associated with prematurity . in a prospective study of 202 women ( gestational age 24 + / - 4 weeks ) , we evaluated possible influences of lower genital tract infection or bacterial conditions on obstetric outcomes , including preterm labor , preterm premature rupture of membranes , and preterm birth . the presence of bacterial vaginosis ( 18.7 % ) was associated with an increased risk of preterm labor ( relative risk , 2.6 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.08 to 6.46 ) . for women with bacterial vaginosis who also had mobiluncus species morphotypes identified on gram stain , the relative risk of preterm labor was 3.8 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.32 to 11.5 ) . presence of vaginal mycoplasma hominis ( 10.8 % of patients ) was associated with both preterm labor ( relative risk , 1.8 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.77 to 4.4 ) and preterm birth ( relative risk , 5.1 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.45 to 17.9 ) . recovery of staphylococcus aureus ( 3.0 % ) was associated with preterm labor ( relative risk , 3.1 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.12 to 8.7 ) . identification of two or more bacterial-linked abnormalities was also associated with preterm labor ( relative risk , 3.3 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.44 to 7.58 ) . an increased level of vaginal wash protease ( greater than or equal to 10 trypsin units ) ( 16 % ) was associated with preterm labor and was noted in 50 % of women with preterm premature rupture of membranes . a history of prior preterm birth was the single best historical predictor of both preterm labor ( relative risk , 3.6 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.92 to 6.83 ) and preterm birth ( relative risk , 6.7 ; 95 % confidence interval , 2.2 to 20.4 ) . history of three or more abortions , antenatal urinary tract infection , and occurrence of medical complications during pregnancy also correlated with increased risk of preterm labor . these findings affirm and refine associations of various maternal reproductive tract infections with preterm labor , premature rupture of membranes , and birth , allowing for controlled treatment trials aimed at prevention of preterm birth . 
cervicovaginal microflora and pregnancy outcome : results of a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of erythromycin treatment . available information suggests that some instances of preterm birth or premature rupture of membranes are associated with clinically unrecognized infection and inflammation of the lower uterine segment , decidua , and fetal membranes . various cervicovaginal microorganisms have been recovered from these sites . many of these microorganisms produce factors that may lead to weakening of the fetal membranes , release of prostaglandins , or both . this study evaluated the presence of various lower genital tract microflora and bacterial conditions in 229 women enrolled in a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of short-course erythromycin treatment at 26 to 30 weeks ' gestation to prevent preterm birth . demographic , obstetric , and microbiologic parameters were prospectively evaluated . premature rupture of membranes occurred less frequently ( p less than 0.01 ) among women who received erythromycin ( 6 % ) versus placebo ( 16 % ) . preterm premature rupture of membranes also occurred less frequently , although not significantly ( p = 0.3 ) in patients who received erythromycin ( 2 % ) versus placebo ( 5 % ) . erythromycin treatment significantly decreased the occurrence of premature rupture of membranes among women who were initially positive for chlamydia trachomatis infection . logistic regression analysis demonstrated that c. trachomatis ( p = 0.05 ; odds ratio , 9 ) , vaginal wash phospholipase c ( p = 0.08 ; odds ratio , 6 ) and prior preterm birth ( p = 0.007 ; odds ratio 17 ) were associated with increased risk of preterm birth . bacterial vaginosis , mycoplasma hominis , ureaplasma urealyticum were not significantly associated with increased risk of preterm birth or preterm rupture of membranes . these findings support a role for selected lower genital tract microflora in preterm birth and premature rupture . large controlled treatment trials of specific infections or conditions associated with preterm birth and premature rupture of membranes are required to confirm the value of antimicrobial treatments in prevention of microbial-associated preterm birth . 
pregnancy outcomes among mothers infected with human immunodeficiency virus and uninfected control subjects . between june 26 , 1985 , and feb . 24 , 1989 , 101 seropositive pregnant women and 129 seronegative pregnant women from the same prenatal clinics in brooklyn and the bronx were recruited into a prospective study of human immunodeficiency virus infection in pregnant women and their offspring . this report details the course of pregnancy and short-term neonatal outcomes of 91 seropositive women and 126 seronegative women who gave birth during the study period . seropositive mothers were significantly more likely to have sexually transmitted diseases ( 17.6 % vs 7.1 % , p = 0.017 ) and medical complications ( 43.0 % vs 25 % , p = 0.006 ) during pregnancy . no other obstetric complications ( e. g. , chorioamnionitis , endometritis , toxemia , or placental problems ) were associated with serologic status . after controlling for confounding variables ( drug use , tobacco use , age of mother , and clinic ) , we found that the mother 's serologic status was not significantly associated with birth weight , gestational age , head circumference , or apgar scores among live infants . for example , after adjustment on confounders we found that children born to seropositive mothers weighed about 7 gm more than children of seronegative mothers ( 95 % confidence interval , -180 to 194 gm ) . we conclude that in this population human immunodeficiency virus infection has little demonstrable impact on the status at birth of live neonates . 
perinatal mortality in victoria , australia : role of group b streptococcus . group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus is the most common infective cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality . it is therefore surprising that no agreement exists for an approach to its prevention . there is also increasing evidence that occult infection may play an etiologic role in premature rupture of the membranes and preterm labor . in this report we review the role of group b beta-hemolytic streptococcal sepsis as a cause of perinatal wastage in the state of victoria , australia during the period 1982 to 1987 . group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus accounted for 1.7 % of overall perinatal deaths , and for 30.3 % ( 77 of 254 ) perinatal deaths directly attributable to infection . by comparison , over the same 6-year period , erythroblastosis accounted for 0.5 % of perinatal wastage and there were only two deaths as a result of congenital syphilis . the true incidence of lethal group b beta-hemolytic streptococcal infection is probably greater because of the absence of histologic and bacteriologic studies in many perinatal deaths . we believe that intrapartum chemoprophylaxis with penicillin of all group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus-positive carrier mothers would significantly reduce neonatal morbidity and mortality from this cause . 
epidemiologic differences between chlamydia and gonorrhea . to assess the prevalence , demographics , and transmission patterns of genital chlamydia infection , we screened 3,078 patients , and compared identified cases ( n = 511 ) to gonorrhea cases ( n = 291 ) diagnosed in the same setting . chlamydia cases were younger and more likely to be white than their gonorrhea counterparts . chlamydia cases were distributed diffusely ; geographic overlap between the two diseases was only about 40 percent . gonococcal coinfection was noted in less than 10 percent of patients with chlamydia . nearly half of men with chlamydia and four-fifths of women were asymptomatic and most cases were identified through screening or contact tracing . populations at high risk for chlamydia are seemingly different from those for gonorrhea . differences may be due to control interventions ( active for gonorrhea , passive for chlamydia ) . chlamydia case reporting and control initiatives are recommended . 
garlic-in-oil associated botulism : episode leads to product modification . in february 1989 , three cases of botulism occurred in persons who consumed garlic bread made from a garlic-in-oil product . testing of leftover garlic-in-oil showed it to have a ph of 5.7 and to contain high concentrations of clostridium botulinum organisms and toxin . this was the second episode of botulism associated with a low acid garlic-in-oil product which needs constant refrigeration . in response , the food and drug administration has taken steps to prevent a recurrence by requiring that microbial inhibitors or acidifying agents be added to such products . 
day care characteristics associated with haemophilus influenzae disease . haemophilus influenzae study group . to identify characteristics of day care facilities associated with h. influenzae disease , we compared 92 licensed facilities in which a case of h. influenzae disease had occurred with randomly selected facilities at which no cases occurred . matched univariate analysis showed that personnel at facilities where h. influenzae disease occurred were more likely than those at control facilities to use towels or handkerchiefs to wipe children 's noses , admit children who were not toilet trained or had diarrhea ( " liberal fecal policy " ) , had a narrower age range , were more likely than control facilities to be for-profit and less likely to use volunteers . in a multivariate model that adjusted for age range , profit status and liberal fecal policy , towel or handkerchief use ( or 5.5 , 95 % ci : 1.1 , 30 ) was the only variable independently associated with case facilities . this is the first association of a specific day care practice with h. influenzae disease . 
evidence for gonococcal transmission within a correctional system . in a study to examine sexually transmissible disease occurring within a large correctional system where sexual activity is prohibited , 27 male inmates acquired culture-proven gonorrhea from in-jail sexual activity during a three-month period . these results provide evidence to encourage inmate education about the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and to support condom distribution programs in correctional facilities . 
hiv seroprevalence among male ivdus in houston , texas . hiv seroprevalence was 8.4 percent in a sample of 921 heterosexual male intravenous drug users in houston , texas who were not in drug treatment at the time of the study . males who were black , injected drugs daily , or had a history of syphilis had greater odds of being hiv positive than participants without those characteristics . 
south american blastomycosis : ophthalmic and oculomotor nerve lesions . a case of south american blastomycosis began with an oropharyngeal lesion which was followed by a granulomatous uveitis . the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed a clinical regression . four months later , he developed a right 3rd cranial nerve palsy , aggravating the clinical aspect with a severe generalized involvement of the central nervous system and death . necropsy showed blastomycotic meningoencephalitis . 
recombinant capsular antigen ( fraction 1 ) from yersinia pestis induces a protective antibody response in balb/c mice . yersinia pestis produces a glycoprotein capsule , the biosynthesis of which appears to be temperature dependent . the fraction i ( f1 ) component of this capsule is specific to y. pestis and the detection of f1 antibodies is the basis for several serological tests . we report the cloning of the f1 gene and its expression in escherichia coli using the phagemid vector lambda zapii and a f1-specific monoclonal antibody . the recombinant f1 antigen had a molecular weight of 17 kda , which proved to be identical to that of the f1 antigen produced by y. pestis . the recombinant cells produced f1 antigen at 37 degrees c but only minimal amounts at 27 degrees c , suggesting that the genetic features affected by temperature in y. pestis may be operating in the e. coli clone . it is not known if their similar molecular weights reflect the glycosylated nature of both proteins . f1 antigen purified from the e. coli recombinant induced a protective immune response in balb/c mice challenged with up to 10 ( 5 ) virulent y. pestis . the resistance of immunized mice to plague infection correlated with high titers of f1 antibody . the cloned gene expresses an immunogenically competent f1 antigen suitable for use in plague serodiagnostics and vaccine development . 
role of surgery in antibiotic-induced pseudomembranous enterocolitis . with the increased use of prophylactic and broad-spectrum antibiotics , pseudomembranous colitis has emerged as a significant clinical problem . management with specific anti-clostridium difficile therapy ( vancomycin or metronidazole ) has reduced mortality to less than 2 % . nevertheless , the disease may progress to a fulminant toxic colitis or colonic perforation . additionally , another subset of patients will present with a dramatic clinical picture , suggesting acute peritonitis , eventuating in unnecessary laparotomy . this report reviews both the medical and surgical literature during the past 15 years of patients treated for pseudomembranous colitis . analysis of this clinical data has provided us with the opportunity to both define the role of surgery in this disorder and illustrate the necessity for a combined medical and surgical cooperative approach in the early management of this iatrogenic disease . 
blood contamination of anaesthetic and related staff the incidence of skin contamination of anaesthetic and related staff by patient 's blood and saliva was studied during 270 anaesthetics in cardiff hospitals over seven continuous days in october 1989 . a survey was also made of current hepatitis b immunisation status and glove-wearing habits of 75 anaesthetists . blood from 35 ( 14 % ) patients caused skin contamination of 65 staff during 46 incidents . twenty-eight ( 61 % ) of the contamination incidents occurred during vessel cannulation . five ( 8 % ) of the 65 staff contaminated by blood already had cuts on their hands . there were nine incidents ( 4 % ) of skin contamination by saliva . fifty-three ( 71 % ) anaesthetists were immunised against hepatitis b. only seven ( 9 % ) anaesthetists wear gloves for oral or nasal intubation , six ( 8 % ) for insertion of peripheral venous cannulae , 47 ( 63 % ) for insertion of arterial lines and 67 ( 89 % ) for insertion of central lines . all anaesthetic and associated staff should wear gloves on a routine basis . 
infection during chronic epidural catheterization : diagnosis and treatment . a potentially serious complication of long-term epidural catheterization in cancer patients is infection . the early signs of infection were studied in 350 patients in whom long-term epidural catheters were inserted . three areas of the catheter track were found to be involved ; exit site and superficial catheter track infection , and epidural space infection . the authors identified the early signs of infection in each area and the progress of the infection from the deep track to include the epidural space in four of these patients . all 19 patients who developed deep track or epidural infections were successfully treated with antibiotics and catheter removal . none of the patients required surgery for spinal cord decompression . catheters were replaced in 15 of the 19 treated patients who requested them after treatment with no recurrent infections . it was concluded that use of long-term epidural catheterization is associated with a definable epidural infection rate . the use of epidural opioid analgesia is an effective and safe means of obtaining pain relief for terminally ill patients when patients are monitored for possible infection and receive prompt treatment when the diagnosis is established . 
toxic streptococcal syndrome . the streptococcal toxic shocklike syndrome is a recently recognized , multisystem disorder that shares many of the features of staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome , but is caused by toxins elaborated by group a beta-hemolytic streptococcus . we describe a patient who fulfilled the major criteria for the clinical diagnosis of toxic shock syndrome ( fever , hypotension , multisystem dysfunction , and diffuse macular erythroderma followed by desquamation ) and who demonstrated serologic evidence suggesting streptococcal infection . in patients presenting with clinical findings consistent with a toxic shocklike syndrome , the emergency physician should consider streptococcal infection as a potential etiology . 
tetanus immunization status and immunologic response to a booster in an emergency department geriatric population . study objectives : although effective procedures for the prevention of tetanus have long been available , serosurveys done since 1977 demonstrate that 49 % to 66 % of the elderly population lacks a protective antitoxin level ( more than 0.01 iu/ml ) . this study was undertaken to assess the tetanus immunization status of patients presenting to an emergency department and to evaluate their immunologic response to a tetanus booster . setting : the study was conducted in a tertiary care ed . type of participants : the patients enrolled were 65 or more years old and had breaks in their skin barriers . design : at each patient 's initial presentation , pertinent demographic data and tetanus immunization history were recorded . the patient was then followed for 21 days . interventions : each patient 's antitoxin titer was determined on a serum sample by elisa , and , if required by the advisory committee on immunization practices criteria , a booster was administered at the first visit . measurements and main results : serum antitoxin assays were repeated on days 7 , 14 , and 21 after the initial visit until seroconversion ( titer more than 0.01 iu/ml ) . forty-four patients ( 55 % ) had protective levels at initial presentation , and in 36 ( 45 % ) the levels were not protective . age and sex were not predictive of protection . past military service and a definite history of three or more previous immunizations were good predictors of protection . of 34 patients who were followed serially for inadequate initial titers , only 19 ( 56 % ) seroconverted by day 14 . patients who did not seroconvert were more likely to be older ( p less than .05 ) . conclusions : this study demonstrated that a significant number of elderly patients lacked an initial protective level of tetanus antitoxin . of these , 44 % failed to seroconvert within 14 days and carried a potential risk of developing tetanus . 
erythromycin failure with subsequent pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis in a cat-bite victim . we report the case of a 75-year-old woman who developed pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis while being treated for a cat-bite wound infection with erythromycin . review of the literature revealed that erythromycin has poor in vitro activity against this bacterium and has been associated with serious clinical failures . we recommend that erythromycin not be prescribed for empiric therapy of established animal-bite infections . suggestions for optimal empiric therapy of animal-bite infections and the differential diagnosis of severe cat-bite-associated sepsis are discussed . 
the role of mucous glycoproteins in the rheologic properties of cystic fibrosis sputum . cystic fibrosis ( cf ) is characterized by excessive amounts of thick and tenacious mucous secretions that obstruct organ ducts and passages . in the respiratory tract this is associated with chronic infection resulting in the hypersecretion of purulent sputum , which the patient finds difficult to clear . we have studied the rheologic properties of purulent sputum from six patients with cf and five patients with chronic bronchitis to assess whether cf is associated with increased sputum viscoelasticity . in addition , we have isolated the major rheologic determinants , mucous glycoproteins , from cf and chronic bronchitis sputa and , using a magnetic microrheometer , investigated the possibility that the altered properties of mucus in cf are associated with abnormalities in these glycoproteins . creep compliance analysis indicated that the cf sputa possessed raised levels of both elasticity ( p less than 0.01 ) and viscosity ( p less than 0.01 ) . these increases in both rheologic parameters were found to be associated with increases in the dna content ( p less than 0.01 ) and dry weight ( p less than 0.05 ) . mucous glycoproteins were isolated from cf and chronic bronchitis sputum samples by gel filtration on sepharose cl4b , followed by concentration to form 8 % wt/wt gels . in the absence of other sputum components , no abnormality in the rheologic properties of cf mucin gels could be detected . however , when dna was added , the cf gels responded with increases in both elasticity and viscosity of as much as 30 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , an effect not observed in the chronic bronchitis gels . these results suggest that a subtle abnormality may exist in cf mucous glycoproteins and that this could have a role in the altered physical properties of mucous secretions in cf. 
human intestinal tissue antibiotic concentrations . clindamycin , gentamicin , and mezlocillin . an antibiotic , to be effective for prophylaxis in abdominal trauma , should quickly achieve high concentrations in the intestinal wall and at enough inhibitory levels to kill most aerobic and anaerobic bacteria that are potential contaminants at the site of surgical incision . therefore , we studied the intestinal tissue levels of clindamycin , gentamicin , and mezlocillin to see whether the tissue levels achieved by these antibiotics in the intestinal tissue were adequate . a single dose of mezlocillin , 4 grams ; clindamycin , 600 mg and gentamicin , 80 mg ; quickly reached the desired concentrations , i.e. , 52.3 , 9.69 and 6.1 micrograms/gram of intestinal tissue respectively . these levels were high enough to inhibit the growth of most isolates of e. coli and b. fragilis , common pathogens involved in intra-abdominal abscess . 
the inactivation of antithrombin iii by serum elastase in patients with surgical infections . the relationship between serum elastase and antithrombin iii was determined in septic surgical patients as a possible mechanism for intravascular thrombosis and hypercoagulability during sepsis . eighteen patients with surgical infections and elevated white blood cell counts had their blood assayed daily for white blood cell count , serum elastase , and antithrombin iii , until the patient 's white blood cell count returned to normal . antithrombin iii was significantly lower ( 0.87 % ) when elastase was above the normal range ( greater than 14.2 micrograms/ml ) . elastase was significantly higher ( 30.6 micrograms/ml ) , when antithrombin iii was less than normal . these data indicate that elevated serum elastase is associated with a significant reduction in circulating antithrombin iii . stimuli that increase serum elastase , i.e. surgery , trauma , or sepsis may promote intravascular thrombosis by the inhibition of antithrombin iii at the blood-endothelial cell interface . 
effect of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection on the course of syphilis and on the response to treatment . purpose : to evaluate evidence that concurrent infection with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) alters both the natural history of syphilis ( by increasing the frequency of early neurosyphilis ) and the response to penicillin . data identification : review of major works on syphilis in the english language and files maintained since 1971 , supplemented by a systematic search using index medicus and medlars . data extraction : the works mentioned above were critically reviewed for information on early neurosyphilis and , where relevant , hiv infection . results of data analysis : the central nervous system is regularly involved in early syphilis . standard recommended doses of benzathine penicillin provide cerebrospinal fluid levels that are probably at the borderline of efficacy , and cure relies on treatment and an adequate host immune response . early neurosyphilis , appearing within 2 years of onset of infection with treponema pallidum , was uncommon in the prepenicillin era and usually occurred after inadequate therapy . this complication was exceedingly rare in the first three decades of penicillin use . in contrast , in the past decade , 40 patients with hiv infection have been reported to have asymptomatic neurosyphilis , or syphilitic meningitis , cranial nerve abnormalities ( predominantly in cranial nerves ii and viii ) , or cerebrovascular accidents , singly or together . in 40 % of cases , hiv infection was first diagnosed when neurologic symptoms appeared . of the 38 patients for whom information was available , 18 had the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , 7 had aids-related complex , and 13 had antibody to hiv . sixteen had previously been treated for syphilis , of whom 5 ( 31 % ) had received benzathine penicillin within the previous 6 months . preliminary data also suggest that skin lesions and vdrl ( venereal disease research laboratory ) antibody in hiv-infected patients with secondary syphilis respond more slowly to conventional penicillin therapy . conclusion : intensive therapy and follow-up observation is indicated for early syphilis in hiv-infected subjects . novel approaches to treatment deserve systematic evaluation . 
recurrent seizures in children with shigella-associated convulsions . fifty-five children with shigella-associated convulsions were followed prospectively to investigate their risk of subsequent febrile or nonfebrile seizures . the duration of the follow-up period was between 6.9 and 14.1 years ( 9.7 + / - 3.1 years ) . no case of nonfebrile seizures and only 2 cases ( 3 % ) of subsequent febrile seizures were observed during this period . we conclude that although febrile and shigella-associated convulsions share many clinical features , the natural history of these two conditions seems to be distinctly different . shigella-related convulsions are not associated with an increased incidence of subsequent febrile or nonfebrile convulsions . 
iatrogenic contamination of multidose vials in simulated use . a reassessment of current patient injection technique . an investigation of the potential spread of iatrogenic infections through contaminated multidose vials was performed . contamination of a multidose vial was hypothesized to occur after a single syringe is used to inject an infected patient with medication , and the same syringe subsequently is used to withdraw additional medication from the multidose vial . if the contaminated multidose vial is used for another patient , an iatrogenic infection may be spread . laboratory study of this injection technique found that viral plaque-forming units could be transmitted to a multidose vial in this manner . a survey of 100 fellows of the american academy of dermatology from the united states found that 24 % of the respondents used this potentially unsafe procedure . the potential for iatrogenic spread of the human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis b virus is described . recommendations to avoid patient infection are made . 
outcome after acute osteomyelitis in preterm infants . eight cases of skeletal infection in preterm infants were studied . all the infants were systemically unwell , with polymorpholeucocytosis . diagnosis was by blood culture , and any radiographic changes were apparent at the time of presentation . infection was often multifocal , with sites around the knee being most commonly affected . staphylococcus aureus was the pathogen isolated in six of the eight cases ; in these treatment with fusidic acid was effective and well tolerated , even at doses that were less than the recommended therapeutic minimum . even with prompt diagnosis and aggressive treatment orthopaedic sequelae are common . 
thoracoplasty : current application to the infected pleural space thoracoplasty , once commonly used in the management of cavitary pulmonary disease , continues to find application in the obliteration of infected pleural spaces . this study reports a series of 13 patients receiving thoracoplasty between 1976 and 1989 . five patients had chronic apical empyema spaces without prior resection of lung tissue . two of the empyemas were due to tuberculosis , two were due to atypical mycobacteria , and one was due to postpneumonic empyema . all patients had extensive destruction of upper lobe tissue . eight patients had undergone prior pulmonary resection ; 3 had persistent infected spaces in the early postoperative period , 3 had development of empyemas and bronchopleural fistulas late ( 5 to 19 years ) after pulmonary resection , and 2 had postpneumonectomy empyema . all patients had rigid cavity walls preventing space obliteration by rib removal alone and required concomitant resection of the thickened pleura and intercostal muscle tissues . bronchopleural fistulas were present in 11 patients and were closed with adjacent nonintercostal muscle . all patients survived and had successful obliteration of the infected spaces with acceptable physiological and cosmetic results . we conclude that thoracoplasty remains a useful procedure in the management of the infected pleural space in select patients . 
air contamination in open heart surgery with disposable coveralls , gowns , and drapes . the effect of a polypropylene coverall , replacing shirt and trousers , combined with sterile laminated gowns and drapes compared with an all-cotton system was studied in regard to the dispersion of bacteria and particles in a conventionally ventilated operating theater . the operations carried out were open heart procedures in 30 adult patients . blood agar sedimentation plates were placed in the operative , anesthesia , and perfusion areas . the mean sedimentation values during 1 hour after the start of operation were as follows in the laminate group : 63 colony-forming units ( cfu ) / m2 in the operative area ; 77 cfu/m2 in the anesthesia area ; and 143 cfu/m2 in the perfusion area . the corresponding figures in the cotton group were 350 cfu/m2 , 364 cfu/m2 , and 437 cfu/m2 , respectively ( p less than 0.0002 ) . at the beginning of the operation , the mean values noted for colony-forming units in the air at the operative site were 8.0 cfu/m3 in the laminate group and 31 cfu/m3 in the cotton group . one hour later , the values were 10 cfu/m3 and 22 cfu/m3 , respectively ( p less than 0.0002 ) . at the end of the operation , the number of particles 5 microns or larger in the air at the operative site was 278/m3 in the laminate group and 592/m3 in the cotton group . it is concluded that the use of a polypropylene coverall and laminated gowns and drapes significantly reduces the particle and bacterial contamination of the air and the bacterial sedimentation during cardiac operations . 
myocardial preservation using lidocaine blood cardioplegia . prevention of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping using lidocaine hydrochloride as an additive to cold potassium blood cardioplegia was studied prospectively in 46 patients undergoing elective myocardial revascularization . patients were similar with respect to age , ventricular function , severity of coronary artery disease , cross-clamp time , completeness of revascularization , frequency of internal thoracic artery grafting , systemic temperature at the time of cross-clamp removal , and mean infusate volume and temperature . patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia ( group 1 , 23 patients ) had a significant reduction in the incidence of ventricular fibrillation ( 22 % versus 74 % ; p less than 0.0005 ) and in the mean number of cardioversion attempts required to defibrillate the heart ( 0.5 + / - 1.3 versus 1.9 + / - 0.97 ; p less than 0.0005 ) after cross-clamp removal compared with controls ( group 2 , 23 patients ) . there were no differences between the two groups postoperatively with regard to cardiac enzyme release , hemodynamic measurements , or clinical outcome . patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia tended to have a lower incidence of new postoperative atrial fibrillation ( 9 % versus 26 % ) . ventricular function was preserved equally in both groups . we conclude that lidocaine is a safe additive to potassium blood cardioplegia and significantly reduces the incidence of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping . 
antimicrobial prophylaxis for open heart operations . between 1986 and 1988 , 450 adults undergoing coronary artery bypass , cardiac valve replacement , or both were enrolled into a prospective , randomized , comparative trial of cephalothin versus cefamandole as perioperative prophylaxis . they were assessed during their hospitalization and at 6 weeks and 6 months after discharge for postoperative infectious complications . eleven patients had major postoperative infections including 5 with sternal wound infections ( three bacteremic ) , 6 with bacteremia , 1 with prosthetic valve endocarditis , and 3 with severe venous donor graft site infections . eight major infections occurred in patients receiving cephalothin prophylaxis and three in patients receiving cefamandole , with all five sternal wound infections occurring in the cephalothin group . postoperative pathogens responsible for the major infections included gram-negative aerobes in 5 patients , staphylococcus aureus in 4 , and staphylococcus epidermidis in 2 . preoperative colonizing staphylococcal isolates were not predictive of postoperative staphylococcal pathogens . although there was no statistically significant difference in rate of major postoperative infectious complications using either cephalothin or cefamandole prophylaxis , there was a trend in favor of cefamandole . gram-negative aerobes are becoming increasingly important pathogens in this setting . 
treatment of postoperative infection of ascending aorta and transverse aortic arch , including use of viable omentum and muscle flaps . postoperative infection of the ascending aorta and aortic arch in 40 patients was treated by antibiotic therapy alone ( 4 patients ) or by operation and lifelong suppressive antibiotic therapy ( 36 patients ) . complications of infection included antibiotic-resistant infection , infected false aneurysm , rupture of suture line , aortocutaneous fistulas , aortic-right ventricular fistulas , arterial embolus , aortic valve insufficiency , aortobronchial fistula , mediastinal abscess , and chest wall problems . these were treated by a variety of operations including composite valve-graft replacement , graft replacement , patch-graft closure of false aneurysm , simple suture of disrupted suture lines and false aneurysm , and debridement of mediastinum and chest wall . the area of reconstruction was covered , and mediastinal dead space was reduced by mobilization of viable tissue , including local tissue and distant structures such as flaps of muscle and omentum . thirty-three patients ( 83 % ) were early survivors , and 28 patients ( 70 % ) were alive and well at last follow-up 4 months to 6.5 years after operation . 
management of mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta after heart-lung transplantation . a 19-year-old woman underwent heart-lung transplantation for obstructive bronchiolitis . eleven days later mycotic rupture of the ascending aorta occurred . emergency cardiopulmonary bypass was instituted via the femoral vessels and the chest was reopened under cardiac massage . perforation of the aorta at the site of insertion of the cardioplegic cannula in the donor aorta was seen . under circulatory arrest the infected area was excised , a pericardial patch plasty was performed , and the region was covered with a muscle flap . postoperatively , candida albicans was found in the excised specimen of the aorta , in drainage fluid , and in the bronchoalveolar lavage . high doses of antimycotics were administered intravenously and for irrigation of the mediastinum , which resulted in an eradication of fungi in all cultures 7 days later . six weeks after reoperation the patient was discharged home , and she remains well 9 months postoperatively . 
left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis : an unusual presentation of histoplasmosis . a case of histoplasmosis seen as left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis in a 49-year-old man is described . the patient had roentgenographic findings of a solitary , noncalcified left upper lobe mass and mediastinal adenopathy . tissue diagnosis of histoplasmosis was obtained using a thoracotomy , allowing institution of appropriate treatment . 
job 's syndrome : a rare cause of recurrent lung abscess in childhood . a clinical syndrome characterized by recurrent staphylococcal infection of the skin and respiratory tract from birth was described in 1966 and referred to as job 's syndrome . marked hyperimmunoglobulinemia e was later found to be associated with this syndrome . this article describes a case of job 's syndrome as a cause of recurrent lung abscess during childhood necessitating lung resection . 
empiric treatment of fungal infections in the neutropenic host . review of the literature and guidelines for use . persistent fever that is refractory to broad-spectrum antibacterials is common in neutropenic patients undergoing induction chemotherapy of acute leukemia . clinical experience suggests that many of these patients are infected with fungi . until recently , data supporting the role of empiric antifungal therapy in this setting were limited to small groups of patients or postmortem reports . evolving evidence in larger patient populations supports data from smaller series : febrile neutropenic patients who have failed to respond to a 4 - to 7-day course of broad-spectrum antibacterials may benefit from the early initiation of antifungal therapy . patients with fungal colonization or pulmonary infiltrates and adult patients who have not received previous fungal prophylaxis may especially benefit from the early use of antifungal drugs . amphotericin b has been the " gold standard " for empiric antifungal therapy , although the newer azoles may be useful in certain situations . 
seroprevalence of helicobacter pylori in seventh-day adventists and other groups in maryland . lack of association with diet . to evaluate the possible role of diet in the transmission of helicobacter pylori , we compared h pylori seroprevalence among seventh-day adventists ( who are vegetarian and abstain from alcohol , caffeine , and meat ; n = 94 ) and two non-seventh-day adventist control groups ( n = 168 ) . with the use of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay h pylori antigen prepared in a french pressure cell , we found no difference in seroprevalence among these groups ; however , seropositivity strongly correlated with age and black race . 
recurrent meningitis in a patient with congenital deficiency of the c9 component of complement . first case of c9 deficiency in europe . we describe the first cases , to our knowledge , of c9 deficiency in europe that were detected in a swiss family , of which two members -- one with a complete deficiency and the other with approximately half-normal c9 levels -- experienced bacterial meningitis . the index patient , a 56-year-old white man with a history of purulent meningitis at the age of 23 years , presented with an acute meningococcal meningitis . no impairment of cellular immunity or immunoglobulin deficiency could be found . complement assays showed a complete deficiency of the c9 component , while the other individual component levels were normal and the hemolytic activity ( measured using the ch50 assay ) was only slightly reduced . a family study revealed complete c9 deficiency in the patient 's healthy brother and half-normal c9 concentrations in his sister , his son ( who also had experienced an episode of bacterial meningitis ) , and his niece , consistent with an inherited c9 deficiency . this first case of recurrent meningitis in a white patient with complete c9 deficiency suggests that this complement defect may also be a risk factor for bacterial , especially neisserial , infections . 
aerobic and anaerobic bacteriology of wounds and cutaneous abscesses . the aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic characteristics of 584 wounds and 676 skin or soft-tissue abscesses were studied and correlated with the infection site . in wounds , aerobic or facultative bacteria only were present in 223 specimens ( 38 % ) , anaerobes only in 177 specimens ( 30 % ) , and mixed flora in 184 specimens ( 32 % ) . in total there were 1470 isolates , 558 aerobic and 912 anaerobic , an average of 2.5 isolates per wound ( 1.6 anaerobic and 0.9 aerobic isolates ) . in abscesses , aerobic or facultative bacteria were recovered in 177 specimens ( 26 % ) , anaerobes only in 243 specimens ( 36 % ) , and mixed flora in 256 specimens ( 38 % ) . in total there were 1702 isolates , 602 aerobic and 1100 anaerobic , an average of 2.5 isolates per abscess . the highest rates of anaerobes in wounds were in the inguinal , buttocks , and trunk areas and in abscesses in the perirectal , external genitalia , neck , and inguinal areas . the predominant aerobic organisms were staphylococcus aureus ( 363 isolates ) , group a streptococci ( 98 isolates ) , and escherichia coli ( 97 isolates ) . the predominant anaerobic organisms were bacteroides species ( 986 isolates ) , peptostreptococcus species ( 559 isolates ) , clostridium species ( 153 isolates ) , and fusobacterium species ( 109 isolates ) . the predominance of certain isolates in certain anatomical sites was correlated with their distribution in the normal flora adjacent to the infected site . these data highlight the polymicrobial nature of wounds and cutaneous abscesses . 
does survival depend on the amount of autotransplanted splenic tissue ? susceptibility to streptococcus pneumoniae infection was studied in 11 groups of rats allocated to sham operation , splenectomy , or splenic autotransplantation of 10 % , 20 % , 30 % , 40 % , 50 % , 60 % , 70 % , 80 % , or 90 % of the removed spleen . three months later , all rats were exposed intravenously to type 1 streptococcus pneumoniae ( median lethal dose , ld50 , for control group ) . survivors were killed 13 days after the bacterial challenge . autopsy showed that more splenic tissue was recovered in rats that received less than 50 % splenic tissue compared with those that received 50 % or more . more survivors were found among sham-operated rats ( 47.5 % ; 95 % confidence intervals , 32 to 68 ) and rats that had 40 % splenic tissue implanted ( 35 % ; confidence interval , 20 to 54 ) or those that were found to have regenerated 40 % splenic tissue . we conclude that 40 % of the spleen should be autotransplanted to protect the rat optimally against infection after splenectomy . 
antibiotic pharmacokinetics in surgery pharmacokinetics is the study of variables that affect drug concentrations at the effector site . the descriptive terms peak concentration , elimination half-life , volume of distribution , and bioavailability are commonly used to express pharmacokinetic variability among drugs used in patient care . the pharmacokinetic characteristics of drugs are important for surgeons to understand because they represent differences that may assume clinical significance when selecting antibiotics for preoperative preventive indications . in addition , the changing hemodynamic pattern of the stressed and septic patient may result in changing pharmacokinetic patterns for an antibiotic , which , in turn , may require changes in the dosing regimen during the course of treatment . 
nontropical pyomyositis as a cause of subacute , multifocal myalgia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we report a case of nontropical pyomyositis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and disseminated mycobacterium avium infection , in which severe myalgia was the presenting symptom over several weeks . multifocal muscle lesions were identified by gallium scanning and magnetic resonance imaging techniques . the epidemiology , possible pathogenesis , clinical features , diagnostic imaging , and therapy are reviewed . early suspicion of nontropical pyomyositis in severely immunocompromised patients with " cryptic " myalgia is recommended . 
outbreak of spontaneous staphylococcal arthritis and osteitis in mice . staphylococcus aureus is the most common bacterial species found in association with nongonococcal bacterial arthritis in humans . we present here the first description of spontaneous bacterial arthritis and osteitis in mice . clinically , the most obvious findings were swelling and/or ankylosis of hindpaws and nodose changes of the tail . the prevalence of arthritis and osteitis ranged from 0 % to greater than 50 % of the mice studied , depending on the mouse strain . the most prominent histopathologic feature of the arthritis was hypertrophy of the synovial tissue and destruction of cartilage and underlying bone . most of the s aureus-infected mice displayed an identical phage type , which was also the only s aureus phage type found in skin isolates from clinically healthy mice . however , a few s aureus isolates were not typeable , indicating that an additional strain ( s ) might cause bacterial arthritis in mice . 
levels of serum granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in patients with infections . to clarify the physiologic roles of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) in infectious states in vivo , we examined the serum levels of g-csf in patients with infection . serum samples from 24 patients in the acute stage of infection ( 14 men and 10 women , age 65 to 101 , without hematologic disorders ) , as well as samples from 32 age-matched normal elderly volunteers were investigated . sixteen of the initial 24 patients were reexamined after the recovery phase . g-csf levels were examined by quantitative enzyme immunoassay . the g-csf level in normal elderly controls , 25.3 + / - 19.7 pg/ml , was not different from that reported in other findings . there was no statistically significant relationship between their g-csf level and peripheral white blood cell count or neutrophilic granulocyte count . the g-csf level in the acute stage of infection was 731.8 + / - 895.0 pg/ml , with a range of 30 to 3,199 pg/ml . there was no significant difference in g-csf levels between patients with respiratory tract infection and those with urinary tract infection . in all 16 cases examined , the serum g-csf level in the acute stage of infection was significantly higher than that after recovery phase , the latter being the same as the level in normal elderly controls . g-csf must therefore play a significant role in human infectious states in vivo . 
acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis : a review of treatment approaches . some authors describe acute bacterial prostatitis as a self-limiting disease , and as with any other acute septic condition , parenteral broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is indicated . chronic bacterial prostatitis , however , is associated with a causative organism persisting unaltered in prostatic fluid and leading to relapsing urinary tract infections . in the 1970s , several workers produced a classification system and bacteriologic localization cultures for establishing the diagnosis of prostatitis . krieger and crawford point to an important factor that is omitted in many clinical trials with episodes of chronic bacterial prostatitis in men . if localization studies of the prostate infection are attempted in the presence of bacteriuria , the urine must be sterilized with nitrofurantoin or penicillin g. urine cultures obtained from first-voided urine , bladder urine , and urine voided after prostatic massage should show no growth , and the expressed prostatic secretion can then be examined for evidence of prostatic infection . this procedure reduces the contamination of the expressed prostatic secretion by the organism from the urinary tract infection . this is important , because antibiotic treatment is determined by the sensitivity of the organism isolated from the prostate as well as by the ability of the antibiotics to penetrate the prostate . meares outlines the pharmacokinetic features needed for drug diffusion into prostatic fluid and provides detailed information on the physical characteristics of the prostate during acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis . unfortunately , the choice of an ideal drug can not be extrapolated from this information because pharmacodynamic principles can not predict clinical efficacy . some authors find that sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim has the best cure rate in the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis . 
sexually transmitted diseases of the colon , rectum , and anus . the challenge of the nineties . during the past two decades , an explosive growth in both the prevalence and types of sexually transmitted diseases has occurred . up to 55 percent of homosexual men with anorectal complaints have gonorrhea ; 80 percent of the patients with syphilis are homosexuals . chlamydia is found in 15 percent of asymptomatic homosexual men , and up to one third of homosexuals have active anorectal herpes simplex virus . in addition , a host of parasites , bacterial , viral , and protozoan are all rampant in the homosexual population . furthermore , the global epidemic of aids has produced a plethora of colorectal manifestations . acute cytomegalovirus ileocolitis is the most common indication for emergency abdominal surgery in the homosexual aids population . along with cryptosporidia and isospora , the patient may present to the colorectal surgeon with bloody diarrhea and weight loss before the diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) disease . other patients may present with colorectal kaposi 's sarcoma or anorectal lymphoma , and consequently will be found to have seropositivity for hiv . however , in addition to these protean manifestations , one third of patients with aids consult the colorectal surgeon with either condylomata acuminata , anorectal sepsis , or proctitis before the diagnosis of hiv disease . although aggressive anorectal surgery is associated with reasonable surgical results in some asymptomatic hiv positive patients , the same procedures in aids ( symptomatic hiv positive ) patients will often be met with disastrous results . it is incumbent upon the surgeon , therefore , to recognize the manifestations of hiv disease and diagnose these conditions accordingly . 
immunogenicity in animals of a polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccine against type iii group b streptococcus . the native capsular polysaccharide of type iii group b streptococcus elicits a specific antibody response in only 60 % of nonimmune human subjects . to enhance the immunogenicity of this polysaccharide , we coupled the type iii polysaccharide to tetanus toxoid . prior to coupling , aldehyde groups were introduced on the polysaccharide by controlled periodate oxidation , resulting in the conversion of 25 % of the sialic acid residues of the polysaccharide to residues of the 8-carbon analogue of sialic acid , 5-acetamido-3 ,5 - dideoxy-d-galactosyloctulosonic acid . tetanus toxoid was conjugated to the polysaccharide by reductive amination , via the free aldehyde groups present on the partially oxidized sialic acid residues . rabbits vaccinated with the conjugate vaccine produced igg antibodies that reacted with the native type iii group b streptococcal polysaccharide ( 3/3 rabbits ) , while rabbits immunized with the unconjugated type iii polysaccharide failed to respond ( 0/3 rabbits ) . sera from animals receiving conjugate vaccine opsonized type iii group b streptococci for phagocytic killing by human peripheral blood leukocytes , and protected mice against lethal challenge with live type iii group b streptococci . the results suggest that this method of conjugation to a carrier protein may be a useful strategy to improve the immunogenicity of the type iii group b streptococcus polysaccharide in human subjects . 
isolation of hiv-1 from the blood of seropositive adults : patient stage of illness and sample inoculum size are major determinants of a positive culture . the walter reed retroviral research group . results of hiv-1 blood cultures from 609 seropositive adults across all stages of illness at the walter reed army medical center were reviewed . hiv-1 was isolated by coculturing of patient peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes ( pbmcs ) with normal blood donor target pbmcs that had been stimulated with phytohemagglutinin and interleukin-2 . the hiv-1 isolation success rate at walter reed increased progressively each year from 1986 to 1989 . in 1989 , hiv-1 was isolated from a single blood specimen from patients in walter reed stages 1-2 , 3-4 , and 5-6 in 75 % ( 49/65 ) , 90 % ( 37/41 ) , and 97 % ( 30/31 ) of cases , respectively . none of 22 blinded negative control specimens was positive . pbmc cultures from late stage patients regularly became positive within 7 days ( 92 % ) , compared to only 46 % of positive cultures from early stage patients . for most patients , the lowest number of serially diluted pbmcs that resulted in a positive culture was 30,000 patient pbmcs , but the range was 300 to 3 million cells . hiv-1 was isolated less frequently from plasma ( 5/18 , 28 % ) . plasma viremia was detected only in patients with relatively high titers of infected pbmcs . forty-six blood specimens from " at-risk " seronegative adults were also cocultured ; none was positive . 
ocular syphilis . the ability of syphilis to mimic different ocular disorders can lead to misdiagnosis and delay in appropriate antimicrobial therapy . the authors describe their experience over the past 5 years with the ocular manifestations of syphilis in 25 patients who comprised 2.45 % of 1020 new patients . uveitis was the most common ocular manifestation seen . all patients had positive results from fta-abs tests , whereas only 68 % had reactive serum vdrls . two of five patients tested for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) antibody were reactive . the authors recommend routine fta-abs and vdrl screening in patients with uveitis or unexplained ocular inflammation . they also recommend testing for hiv antibody in luetics and aggressive treatment with high-dose aqueous penicillin for syphilis . 
acute syphilitic posterior placoid chorioretinitis . six patients with evidence of secondary syphilis presented with visual loss in both eyes caused by large , placoid , yellowish lesions with faded centers at the level of the pigment epithelium in the macula and juxtapapillary areas . all eyes had vitreitis . all of the lesions showed a similar fluorescein angiographic pattern of early hypofluorescence and late staining . five patients had mucocutaneous lesions typical of secondary syphilis . all five patients treated with antibiotics had prompt improvement in visual function and resolution of the fundus lesions . the ophthalmoscopic and angiographic appearance of these posterior fundus lesions was sufficiently characteristic to suggest a diagnosis of secondary syphilis . modification of the host response to syphilis by human immune deficiency virus ( hiv ) infection may be partly responsible for this peculiar fundus picture . three of the four patients tested positive for hiv . 
the national immunization program of the netherlands . after a brief explanation of the immunization policy in the netherlands , the national immunization program is described , with special attention given to coupling of the municipal population records with a computerized database of individual immunization records at the provincial level . the dutch program achieves coverage rates greater than 90 % for all routine immunizations . participation in the program is free of charge to every child living in the country up to the age of 13 years , but there is no obligation or requirement to be immunized . financing of the program is also discussed . 
postneonatal infectious disease mortality : the french situation . mortality caused by infectious and parasitic diseases represents a limited part of all postneonatal deaths in france , which have been stable for the past decade . this component is worthy of careful analysis because it is at least partially preventable . statistics are presented and interpreted , with discussion on which disorders should be included in assessing the impact of infection on morbidity and mortality . figures and international rankings change according to the inclusiveness of the definition chosen . there is need for epidemiologic and statistical research to make comparisons of mortality more clear . morbidity is also important because of high incidence , frequent hospitalization , and a heavy social cost . policy and services in france that relate to control and treatment of infection are described , as are shortcomings that call for further efforts . 
postneonatal mortality in norway : a study of recent trends and comparison with other mortality rates in norwegian children . postneonatal mortality in norway decreased rapidly from 1956 to 1980 but subsequently remained stable . in recent years the postneonatal death rate appears to be increasing , primarily due to greater numbers of deaths attributed to the sudden infant death syndrome . during the same period , mortality among older children has also decreased , with the decline evident in all leading causes . only among people aged 15 to 19 years have recent trends been less than encouraging , with the number of fatal traffic accidents in particular remaining stable or increasing . although there is room for continued improvement , the widely held belief that the health status of norwegian children is good is supported by the trends in mortality . 
treating systemic fungal infections in aids patients . prolonging life against the odds . fungal infections have become one of the major causes of death among immunocompromised patients , particularly patients with aids . accurate and quick diagnosis is difficult ; therefore , empirical therapy is often necessary . this scenario is complicated by the fact that most antifungal agents are toxic at the doses used or relatively ineffective against deep-seated mycoses . because the population of aids patients is increasing , physicians will be faced more often with the management of systemic fungal infections . despite the current bleak prognosis for these patients , several new antigen detection tests are being developed and triazole agents are proving to be effective and less toxic than their predecessors . many cases of systemic mycoses do result in mortality , but appropriate treatment can both prolong life and improve its quality . 
a randomized prospective study of topical antimicrobial agents on skin grafts after thermal injury . we prospectively studied 52 consecutive patients who were treated by early tangential excision and grafting following thermal injury . the usefulness of two topical antimicrobial agents -- 0.5 % silver nitrate ( ag ) and neomycin ( 1 gm/liter ) plus bacitracin ( 50,000 units/liter ) ( nb ) -- was compared with the effectiveness of ringer 's lactate ( rl ) for prevention of autogenous skin-graft loss due to infection . graft loss of 10 percent or more occurred in 17 patients ( 33 percent ) -- due to infection in 16 . skin-graft loss was a minor problem in patients with less than 20 percent total body surface area ( tbsa ) burn ( ag : 0 of 6 , nb : 1 of 6 , rl : 1 of 5 ) . the use of either antimicrobial ( ag or nb ) resulted in less graft loss ( 1 of 14 ) than rl ( 4 of 6 ; p less than 0.05 ) in the 20 to 40 percent tbsa burn group . large burns ( greater than 40 percent ) had a very high incidence of at least 10 percent graft loss ( 67 percent ) regardless of treatment . infection in the area of graft loss was caused by antibiotic-resistant organisms or yeast in 50 percent of the ringer 's lactate group and the entire neomycin plus bacitracin group . no graft infections were caused by resistant organisms or yeast in the silver nitrate group . this study demonstrates that topical antimicrobial agents reduce infection-related skin-graft loss in patients with medium-sized ( 20 to 40 percent tbsa ) burns and that neomycin plus bacitracin is associated with rapid emergence of drug-resistant organisms whereas silver nitrate is not . 
how and why aztreonam works . aztreonam is the first monocyclic beta-lactam antibiotic ( monobactam ) to be tested clinically . its synthetic structure determines specific areas of activity , including enhanced activity against pseudomonas species , exceptional activity against gram-negative bacteria , stability to beta-lactamases and lack of activity against gram-positive bacteria -- all of which can be directly related to its chemical composition . aztreonam has a high affinity for the protein-binding protein 3 ( pbp-3 ) of aerobic gram-negative bacteria . most of these organisms are inhibited and killed at low concentrations of the drug . aztreonam binds poorly to pbp sites of the aerobic gram-positive and anaerobic bacteria and consequently has relatively poor inhibitory effects against these bacteria . in vitro , minimum inhibition concentration ( mic ) values against almost all of the enterobacteriaceae and against neisseria and haemophilus strains are typically below 1 microgram per milliliter . mic values against pseudomonas aeruginosa of 8 micrograms per milliliter are comparable with those of other antipseudomonal beta-lactams and the acylureidopenicillins . as combination therapy with amino-glycosides , aztreonam acts in synergy against p. aeruginosa , acinetobacter and gentamicin-resistant gram-negative rods . aztreonam is widely distributed in the body tissues and fluids , and the average elimination half-life is 1.7 hours . intramuscular dosing results in peak serum levels in approximately one hour , while intravenous dosing results in peak levels within five minutes . after a 2 gram dose given intravenously , mic90 values for most of the enterobacteriaceae are exceeded for eight hours , and those for p. aeruginosa , for almost six hours . the steady-state volume of distribution is approximately 0.18 liter per kilogram . concentrations above the mic90 for most gram-negative bacteria are also present within bone , prostate and cerebrospinal fluid . between 60 and 70 per cent of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine , resulting in concentrations approximating 3,000 micrograms per milliliter two hours after a 1 gram dose given intravenously . serum clearance of aztreonam is directly proportional to creatinine clearance . dosage adjustment must , therefore , be made in the presence of reduced clearance . dosing varies between 0.5 and 2.0 grams every six to 12 hours , depending on the severity of the infection . the characteristics of aztreonam suggest that it is a useful nonnephrotoxic drug for treatment of aerobic gram-negative infection . 
antifungal therapy and its use in surgical treatment . modern surgery continues to make significant therapeutic advances , and a major component in the adjunctive care allowing these improved procedures is the successful use of broad-spectrum antibacterials . however , the widespread administration of potent antibacterials and the frequent use of a variety of catheters , along with an increase in the number of immune compromised patients requiring invasive procedures , have allowed deep-seated mycoses to become more common . nosocomial fungal infections are frequent , particularly in the urinary tract and in the blood . this rise in identified fungal infections , along with frequent empiric treatment of suspected infection , has significantly increased amphotericin b therapy in surgical services in the last five years . while amphotericin b remains the standard for treatment of nosocomial mycoses , other antifungal agents are available ( flucytosine , miconazole , ketoconazole and fluconazole ) . despite experience with the older agents and the development of new agents , many questions remain concerning the use of currently available antifungal treatments in postsurgical patients . the following discussion attempts to summarize the magnitude of the problem , the difficulties with diagnosis and laboratory evaluations , the characteristics of the antifungal agents and particular problems with antifungal treatment in surgery . 
vancomycin pharmacokinetics in hydrocephalic shunt prophylaxis and relationship to ventricular volume . vancomycin pharmacokinetics were determined in 25 patients receiving ventriculoperitoneal shunts for hydrocephalus . computed tomography scan-derived ventricular-brain ratio as an expression of hydrocephalus varied between 9.3 % and 15.4 % ( 12.9 % + / - 1.7 % ) . one hour prior to surgery each patient received 1 g of vancomycin infused intravenously over 60 minutes . samples of cerebrospinal fluid and venous blood were obtained 1 hour later and vancomycin levels assayed by fluorescence polarization immunoassay . there were 11 females and 14 males , with a mean age of 44.5 + / - 10.3 years and a mean weight of 72.0 + / - 11.4 kg . all had normal renal function . levels of vancomycin in the cerebrospinal fluid at 1 hour ranged from 0.1 to 1.5 micrograms/ml ( 0.9 + / - 0.3 ) . weight did not affect these values ( p greater than 0.1 ) . simultaneous blood vancomycin levels varied between 9.1 and 38.7 micrograms/ml ( 22.3 + / - 8.3 ) . ventricular volume , expressed as the ventricular-brain ratio , did not correlate with cerebrospinal fluid vancomycin levels ( p greater than 0.5 ) . there was no significant increase in concentrations of vancomycin in csf as cerebrospinal fluid protein concentration increased , nor when blood vancomycin concentration was greater than 20 mg/dl ( therapeutic range ) ( p greater than 0.1 ) . no patient had evidence of infection at 6 months follow up . these results indicate minimal cerebrospinal fluid penetrance of vancomycin when administered systemically 1 hour prior to shunt surgery . in addition concentrations of vancomycin in cerebrospinal fluid bear no relationship to weight , ventricular volume , meningeal inflammation , or blood levels in the therapeutic range . the minimum inhibitory concentration of vancomycin for staphylococci is 1.5 to 3.1 , and as bactericidal levels of 5 to 8 minimum inhibitory concentration are needed to kill organisms , a combination of both systemic and intraventricular vancomycin may be needed to ensure adequate cerebrospinal fluid and tissue concentration of antibiotic during shunt prophylaxis . 
brain stem tuberculoma in adult patients : diagnosis and treatment . a consecutive series of six adult patients ranging in age from 29 to 53 years is presented . the clinical and radiological features in each patient are described . attention is drawn to the features demonstrated on computed axial tomography . in only one patient , the first encountered , was surgical excision undertaken and histological verification obtained . one patient died before any form of treatment could be instituted . the remaining four patients were treated with antituberculous chemotherapy alone and their progress monitored by sequential computed tomography . the excellent response and good outcome in this conservatively treated group are documented . 
brain abscess associated with congenital pulmonary arteriovenous fistula . a case of brain abscess associated with congenital pulmonary arteriovenous fistula was presented and 52 reported cases were reviewed . the brain abscess was successfully treated with repeated aspiration and drainage , and the pulmonary arteriovenous fistula , located in the right lower lobe , was resected . the arteriovenous fistula occurs as a common pulmonary manifestation of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ; however , no symptoms suggesting these two were noted in this case . brain abscesses can be an initial clinical manifestation in asymptomatic pulmonary arteriovenous fistula . this possible association should be borne in mind in cases of brain abscesses of unexplained etiology . 
botulism among alaska natives . the role of changing food preparation and consumption practices . alaska natives have one of the highest rates of food-borne botulism worldwide . all outbreaks have been associated with the consumption of native foods , but in recent years outbreaks have occurred in previously unaffected areas and have involved new food items . five botulism outbreaks occurred between 1975 and 1985 in an area of southwestern alaska without previous confirmed outbreaks and among one ethnic group , the yupik eskimo . of the 5 outbreaks , 3 were associated with fermented beaver tail , a nontraditional native food recently introduced into the region . preparation techniques vary widely within villages and among ethnic groups . traditional fermentation techniques have changed over the past 50 years ; current preparation methods used by some families and ethnic groups may be more favorable for clostridium botulinum growth . prevention efforts should be targeted at high-risk subgroups of alaska natives who appear to have modified traditional practices and increased their risk of food-borne botulism . 
high-dose phenylephrine infusion in the hemodynamic support of septic shock . a 75-year-old man with hyperdynamic septic shock and vasodilation was successfully supported hemodynamically for 88.5 hours through the use of a continuous infusion of phenylephrine at dosages up to 360 micrograms/min . the only other vasoactive compound administered was dopamine at a dosage of 3.4 micrograms/kg/min . hemodynamic evaluation indicated improvements in mean arterial pressure , cardiac output , and oxygen transport parameters during the period of hemodynamic support , which did not indicate a detrimental effect on perfusion of vital organs and tissues despite the use of this vasoconstrictor . phenylephrine 's pharmacologic properties may represent an advantage for its use as a vasoconstrictor over catecholamines such as norepinephrine and dopamine , particularly in patients who develop tachyarrhythmias with these agents . the pharmacology , dosage , and appropriate monitoring of therapy with phenylephrine in patients with septic shock are discussed . 
controversies in the treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis an increasing number of cases of sore throat caused by group a beta-hemolytic streptococci occur with concomitant colonization by organisms that may " protect " the streptococci through beta-lactamase inactivation of penicillin at the site of infection . the failure of penicillin to eradicate many of these bacteria , which include staphylococcus aureus , haemophilus influenzae , moraxella ( branhamella ) catarrhalis and a multitude of pharyngeal anaerobes , may help to explain why penicillin is sometimes ineffective for acute and recurrent group a streptococcal infections . therapeutic alternatives currently include cephalosporins , erythromycin , rifampin combined with penicillin , amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium and others . 
concomitant neurocysticercosis and brucellosis . a young mexican woman had headache and left arm weakness develop shortly after immigrating to the united states . a solitary cerebral cysticercus was found at surgery , but , instead of the expected finding of clear fluid , the cyst contained pus from which brucella melitensis was cultured . although the patient had no signs or symptoms suggestive of brucellosis , agglutination studies revealed igm and igg antibodies consistent with active brucellosis . clinicians should be alert to the possibility of multiple infections in immigrants from countries where parasites and bacteria that are uncommon in the united states are endemic . 
impetigo . current etiology and comparison of penicillin , erythromycin , and cephalexin therapies . we attempted to determine the causative bacterial pathogens of impetigo in children in our area , to compare the effectiveness of three frequently used oral antimicrobial treatment regimens , and to correlate the antimicrobial sensitivity of the bacterial isolates with clinical responses to treatment . seventy-three children with impetigo were randomly assigned to receive penicillin v potassium or cephalexin monohydrate , both administered in dosages of 40 to 50 mg/kg per day , or erythromycin estolate administered in a dosage of 30 to 40 mg/kg per day . all drugs were given in three divided doses for 10 days . treatment failure was defined as persistence of lesions 8 to 10 days after initiation of drug therapy as determined by examiners blinded to the treatment therapies . forty-five ( 62 % ) cultures showed staphylococcus aureus only , 14 ( 19 % ) showed s aureus and group a beta-hemolytic streptococci , six ( 8 % ) showed group a beta-hemolytic streptococci only , and eight ( 11 % ) showed no growth or other organisms . treatment failure occurred in six ( 24 % ) of 25 patients treated with penicillin v , one ( 4 % ) of 25 patients treated with erythromycin estolate , and no patients treated with cephalexin . we conclude that s aureus is the most common cause of impetigo in children in our study population , that cephalexin is the most effective treatment , that erythromycin estolate is nearly equally effective and may be preferred on a cost-effectiveness basis , and that penicillin v is inadequate for treatment of this infection . 
lung function in children following empyema . spirometry was performed and response to exercise was measured in 15 children following recovery from empyema to evaluate the impact of pleural infection on subsequent lung function . seven children underwent chest tube drainage ; eight did not . the two groups were similar in age ( mean + / - sd , 6 + / - 5 years ) , sex distribution , bacterial pathogen-producing empyema , and age at follow-up evaluation ( 12 + / - 5 years ) . only one child reported recurrent respiratory symptoms . no child had restrictive spirometric changes ( total lung capacity , less than 80 % ; vital capacity , less than 80 % predicted ) but seven of 15 had a reduced forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( less than 80 % predicted ) or forced expiratory flow during the middle half of the vital capacity ( less than 75 % predicted ) , suggesting mild airway obstruction . no child demonstrated reduced exercise tolerance due to restrictive ventilatory limitations . mild obstructive abnormalities in lung function were identified with equal frequency in children treated with and without chest tube drainage . 
ocular atopy and mycotic keratitis . in a retrospective analysis , we studied the association between ocular atopy and keratomycosis . forty-one ( 26.3 % ) of 156 patients with fungal corneal ulcers were found to have preexisting allergic conjunctivitis . all patients had been using a combination of antibiotics and corticosteroids before developing the corneal ulcer . fungus isolation on sabouraud 's agar medium was obtained in 74.8 % ( 31/42 ) ulcers . the most common fungi isolated were fusarium ( 32.3 % ) and aspergillus ( 29 % ) . one percent silver sulfadiazine was used as an antifungal agent in these patients . overall efficacy of this drug was found to be 77.8 % , with fusarium being the most sensitive ( 87.5 % ) . 
endophthalmitis due to sporothrix schenckii after penetrating ocular injury . a 13-year-old boy developed endophthalmitis from traumatic inoculation of vegetable material penetrating his right eye . sporothrix schenckii was morphologically identified from the intraocular fluids . however , repeated attempts to culture the organism proved negative . seventeen sporotrical endophthalmitis cases have so far been reported , and before this report , only one of them was secondary to trauma . this is the sole eye to our knowledge not only to have escaped enucleation after sporotrical endophthalmitis but to have achieved useful ( 20/50 ) vision . 
clindamycin vs penicillin for anaerobic lung infections . high rate of penicillin failures associated with penicillin-resistant bacteroides melaninogenicus . thirty-seven adult patients with anaerobic lung infections ( 27 lung abscesses and 10 necrotizing pneumonias ) were submitted to transthoracic needle-aspiration and/or bronchoscopic specimen brush cultures before therapy and thereafter in all cases considered to be failures . patients were randomly assigned to receive either clindamycin , 600 mg intravenously every 6 hours , or penicillin g , 2 million u every 4 hours for no less than 8 days , until clinical and radiological improvement became apparent . treatment was continued orally with clindamycin , 300 mg every 6 hours , or penicillin v , 750 mg every 6 hours , until completing a minimum of 4 weeks . ten of the 47 anaerobes initially isolated from the lung ( nine bacteroides melaninogenicus and one bacteroides capillosus ) were resistant to penicillin , but none were resistant to clindamycin . five of the nine patients harboring these penicillin-resistant bacteroides received penicillin , and all failed to respond to therapy . overall , eight of the 18 patients in the penicillin group and one of 19 in the clindamycin group failed to respond to therapy . these drugs were equally well tolerated in both groups . the presence of penicillin-resistant bacteroides is a frequent cause of penicillin failure in patients with anaerobic lung infections . in this setting , clindamycin appears to be the current therapy of choice for initial treatment . 
spectrum of invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease in adults . a prospective nationwide surveillance of invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease among adults ( greater than or equal to 16 years old ) was conducted in finland during 1985 through 1988 . thirty-one cases were identified ( annual incidence , 0.22 / 100,000 ) . of these infections , 71 % occurred in patients with severe underlying conditions . the overall case fatality rate was 26 % . septicemia ( 13 patients ) and pneumonia ( seven patients ) were the most common clinical manifestations of h influenzae type b infection ; the others were epiglottitis ( six patients ) , meningitis ( three patients ) , and arthritis ( two patients ) . epiglottitis occurred in significantly younger patients , all of whom were women and four of whom were previously healthy . subtyping of the h influenzae type b isolates according to the major outer membrane protein subtype , biotype , and lipopolysaccharide serotype showed that patterns that were uncommon ( 14 % ) among children were more common ( 27 % ) in the adults . 
group b streptococcus endocarditis following second-trimester abortion . an 18-year-old woman who underwent an elective second-trimester abortion developed streptococcus agalactiae ( group b streptococcus ) endocarditis characterized by a large , pedunculated vegetation involving a previously normal tricuspid valve . polyarthritic symptoms , as well as multiple pulmonary emboli , were experienced , and cure followed a course of treatment using intravenous penicillin g potassium combined with gentamicin sulfate . endocarditis caused by this pathogen usually occurs among individuals compromised by underlying chronic disorders and , today , is a rare sequela of pregnancy and abortion . when planning therapy , consideration should be given to the possibility of tolerance among clinical isolates and the need for operative intervention in selected patients . 
toxic shock syndrome associated with use of latex nasal packing . we treated a previously healthy young man who developed toxic shock syndrome 2 days after elective septoplasty with nonabsorbent latex packing . this case emphasizes that non-menstrual wound-associated toxic shock syndrome can occur after surgery that does not involve absorbent splinting or packing and should be considered in patients who present within a few days after surgery with fever , sunburnlike rash , hypotension , and multisystem complaints and laboratory abnormalities . 
streptococcal endocarditis temporally related to transesophageal echocardiography . a case of streptococcal sanguis endocarditis temporally related to a transesophageal echocardiogram is reported ; and the literature on the incidence of bacteremia occurring during transesophageal echocardiography is reviewed . on the basis of this case and review of the literature , a reevaluation of the current guidelines for endocarditis prophylaxis during this procedure is recommended . 
eustachian valve endocarditis . m mode and cross sectional echocardiography showed a highly mobile globular pedunculated mass ( 3.0 cm long with a maximum diameter of i. 5 cm ) attached to the eustachian valve in a heroin addict with staphylococcal endocarditis . 
a study of immunoglobulin g in the cerebrospinal fluid of 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease using isoelectric focusing and the log igg-index . a comparison and diagnostic applications . cerebrospinal fluid and serum immunoglobulin g from 1007 patients with suspected neurological disease were analysed by 2 methods : isoelectric focusing for the detection of oligoclonal banding , and quantitative measurement of igg and albumin for the formulation of a log igg-index . a comparison of the 2 methods in the detection of local synthesis of igg showed that isoelectric focusing not only gave a much higher yield overall , with 282 patients showing local synthesis versus 225 for the log igg-index , but also a higher specificity , with a false positive rate of 0 % versus 3.5 % . in addition , of the 282 patients positive by isoelectric focusing only 163 ( 58 % ) were positive by the log igg-index . of the 1007 patients studied , 206 had multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , and isoelectric focusing showed local synthesis in 95 % of clinically definite cases , with a 90 % detection rate overall . the log igg-index was positive in only 67 % of clinically definite cases , with an overall 59 % detection rate . thus with the exceptions noted above , local synthesis of igg as defined by isoelectric focusing is confined to demyelinating , inflammatory , infectious and postinfectious disorders . our results compare very favourably with the published sensitivities of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of abnormalities in multiple sclerosis , and better than those for evoked potentials . where both these investigations are readily available isoelectric focusing provides a useful adjunct . for the majority of physicians and neurologists who do not have ready access to magnetic resonance imaging , isoelectric focusing is an excellent alternative . we would also recommend that it become the standard for the measurement of igg abnormalities in the cerebrospinal fluid and that the use of quantitative data be abandoned for routine purposes . 
newer concepts in antimicrobial therapy . advances in the treatment of infection have continued to increase both the length and quality of life . unfortunately , many bacteria can readily adapt to their environment and develop a tolerance to the antimicrobial agents in widespread use . during the recent past , the consumption of cephalosporins has increased so dramatically as to parallel the initial acceptance of penicillin . organisms that are resistant to the cephalosporins will no doubt continue to thrive , especially within the susceptible host . it is essential for the clinician to become familiar with the newest antimicrobial agents to more effectively treat modern infections . 
simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections . a simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections was done on 19 limbs with 84 % good results for healing . the first stage was the standard below-knee amputation with a long posterior flap in which the fascia and skin were closed in the central portion with the medial and lateral portions of the wound left open for drainage . the second stage was delayed until closure of the open wounds three to seven days after the first stage . wagner 's classification of diabetic foot lesions was used to stratify these cases . grades 3 and 4 foot infections had a uniformly good prognosis for healing with this surgical technique . grade 5 foot infections had a poor prognosis for healing , especially if associated with renal failure and dialysis , even with an initial guillotine amputation . 
initial evaluation of human monoclonal anti-lipid a antibody ( ha-1a ) in patients with sepsis syndrome . ha-1a , a human monoclonal immunoglobulin m antibody that binds specifically to the lipid a domain of endotoxin , was administered to septic patients to evaluate the safety , pharmacokinetics , and immunogenicity of the antibody . thirty-four patients received a single infusion of either 25 mg , 100 mg , or 250 mg , and were followed clinically for 14 to 21 days after treatment . ha-1a serum levels were measured before infusion and frequently after infusion with a radiometric assay . a one-compartment pharmacokinetic model was fit to the measured serum levels , and accurately described the changes in ha-1a level over time in each dose group ( r2 = .99 ) . the mean + / - sem apparent volume of distribution of ha-1a was 48.5 + / - 4.5 ml/kg , and the mean serum clearance was 2.8 + / - 0.4 ml/kg . h. the mean serum half-life of ha-1a was 15.9 + / - 1.5 h. the mean serum level one hour after a 100-mg dose was 33.2 + / - 2.4 micrograms/ml , and the mean concentration 24 h later was 9.1 + / - 1.6 micrograms/ml . the dose administered and presence of gram-negative bacterial infection did not significantly influence the volume of distribution or serum clearance . no adverse reactions to ha-1a were observed , and no antibodies against ha-1a were detected in any patient . these data indicate that the pharmacokinetics of ha-1a are well described by a one-compartment pharmacokinetic model , and that ha-1a is safe and nonimmunogenic in patients with sepsis . 
dependence of oxygen consumption on oxygen delivery in children with hyperdynamic septic shock and low oxygen extraction . we studied the effect of increasing systemic oxygen delivery ( do2 ) by packed rbc ( prbc ) transfusion on oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) in children with hyperdynamic septic shock . after routine resuscitation with volume loading and pharmacologic support , patients were studied if they had significant derangements of oxygen transport variables defined as : baseline vo2 less than 180 ml/min . m2 and oxygen extraction ( o2 extr ) less than 24 % . eight studies were performed . prbc transfusion increased do2 from 636 + / - 167 to 828 + / - 266 ml/min . m2 ( p less than .01 ) without increasing cardiac index ( 5.2 + / - 1.3 vs. 5.0 + / - 1.4 l/min . m2 ) . vo2 increased from 112 + / - 36 to 157 + / - 60 ml/min . m2 ( p less than .01 ) while o2 extr was unchanged ( 18 + / - 3 % vs. 19 + / - 6 % ) . despite initial low o2 extr , vo2 can be increased in pediatric septic shock by a further increase in do2 . since vo2 correlates with survival , one should consider enhancing do2 further despite initial low o2 extr and high do2 . effects on morbidity and mortality require further study . 
accuracy in early prediction of prognosis of patients with septic shock by analysis of simple indices : prospective study . in 26 consecutive septic shock patients , we analyzed the clinical , hemodynamic , and metabolic data before and during volume infusion to test their circulatory reserve in response to fluid repletion . these patients were investigated to identify early variables that could predict outcome . there were 15 survivors ( group a ) and 11 nonsurvivors ( group b ) . as a mean , group a patients were hemodynamically evaluated 2.3 h after onset of the sepsis syndrome , whereas group b patients underwent cardiac catheterization after a 12-h interval . at the initial evaluation , both groups demonstrated similarly decreased mean arterial pressure , mean heart rate , and mean cardiac filling pressure . only group a patients evidenced elevated cardiac index ( ci ) ( greater than 4 l/min . m2 ) associated with low systemic vascular resistance index ( less than 7400 dyne.sec / cm5.m2 ) , which is generally recognized as hyperdynamic cardiac state . however , none of the initial cardiovascular variables could serve as a predictor for survival . fluid challenge increased left ventricular preload from 6 to 12.4 and from 7.8 to 12.7 mm hg in group a and group b , respectively . the increases were associated with significant increases in ci from 4.4 to 6.9 and from 3 to 3.8 l/min . m2 . however , at the end of fluid challenge , only group a patients exhibited normal cardiac response , as evidenced by the change in left ventricular stroke work index ( lvswi ) for a given increase in the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( wp ) that was referred to as left cardiac preload . 
femoral artery cannulation for monitoring in critically ill children : prospective study . seventy-seven attempted percutaneous femoral artery cannulations were prospectively evaluated in 74 children . artery cannulation was successfully accomplished in 73 ( 95 % ) cases and lasted for a mean of 6 days . sixty percent of the catheters were inserted on the first attempt . fifty-two ( 71 % ) patients weighed less than 10 kg and 55 ( 75 % ) patients were less than 12 months old . fifty-one ( 70 % ) patients received inotropic support at the time of cannulation , and 27 ( 37 % ) eventually died from causes unrelated to catheter insertion . there was one episode each of line-associated infection and transient distal ischemia not resulting in tissue loss , and two episodes of catheter malfunction . in eight ( 11 % ) patients , signs of distal vascular insufficiency developed shortly catheter placement and resolved after catheter removal . the development of this complication correlated significantly ( p less than .05 ) with younger age ( 5.5 vs. 22.3 months ) . we conclude that femoral artery cannulation has a high degree of success in very small , critically ill children . it should be considered an acceptable alternative to small-vessel cannulation when the latter is not technically achievable , or in the unstable patient where rapid establishment of reliable arterial access is necessary . 
incidence of colonization , nosocomial pneumonia , and mortality in critically ill patients using a trach care closed-suction system versus an open-suction system : prospective , randomized study . eighty-four intubated , mechanically ventilated patients were prospectively evaluated for incidences of colonization and nosocomial pneumonias dependent on whether they received endotracheal suctioning by an " open " suction method vs. " closed " suction ( trach care closed suction system ) method . results show that closed suctioning is associated with a significant ( 67 % vs. 39 % p less than .02 ) increase in colonization compared with open suctioning . however , difference in the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia was not significantly ( 26 % vs. 29 % ) different between closed and open suctioning . differences in severity of illness ( acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ii and therapeutic intervention scoring system ) , age , sex , presence of ng tubes , use of h2 antagonists or antacids , use of antibiotics , and history of smoking were all nonsignificant . survival analysis demonstrated that the probability of survival without developing nosocomial pneumonia was greater among closed-suctioning patients vs. open-suctioned patients ( p less than .03 ) . this study shows that suctioning performed via the trach care closed-suction system increases the incidence of colonization but not the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia , and may actually decrease mortality when compared with open-suction systems . 
risks of human immunodeficiency virus infection to patients and healthcare personnel . the risk of nosocomial human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection among hospitalized patients comes almost exclusively from transfusion of fresh blood products . current estimates of the risk of hiv infection from the transfusion of blood or components vary from 1/40 ,000 to 1/250 ,000 ( 0.0025 % to 0.0004 % ) , with the most probable likelihood estimated to be 1/153 ,000 ( 0.0007 % ) . the major route of transmitting such hiv infection is via blood collected during the interval between infection of the donor and development of a detectable circulating antibody level to the aids virus ( i.e. , the " window period " ) . the current risk to hemophiliacs receiving treated coagulation factor concentrates is negligible . the risk to healthcare personnel of acquiring hiv infection from accidental puncture wounds and from handling hiv-infected blood or body fluids is 0.42 % per episode . most reported seroconversions have resulted from penetrating injuries with sharp objects contaminated with hiv-positive blood . the degree of risk to healthcare workers will vary with the community , the patient population served , and the frequency of penetrating injuries . 
cardiac involvement in aids . cardiac involvement in aids may occur at any stage of hiv disease and may manifest as congestive cardiomyopathy , potentially lethal arrhythmia , or pericardial effusion and tamponade . the heart may be affected by nearly all of the opportunistic infections and many of the malignancies associated with the syndrome . although often clinically unobtrusive , cardiac lesions may be important in the pathogenesis of significant clinical symptoms and play an often unrecognized role in the prognosis and natural history of aids . 
prostacyclin but not phentolamine increases oxygen consumption and skin microvascular blood flow in patients with sepsis and respiratory failure . inadequate tissue oxygenation may occur in critically ill patients with sepsis despite an apparently adequate o2 transport ( qo2 ) , and this may contribute to the development of an o2 debt and also to multiple organ failure . it has been shown that increasing qo2 by infusing a vasodilator may reveal this o2 debt in septic patients . to investigate whether the site of action of vasodilators may be of importance in unmasking such an o2 debt , we administered prostacyclin , a prostaglandin with a preferential effect on the microcirculation , and phentolamine , an arteriolar vasodilator , in 11 patients studied during the first 48 hours after the onset of sepsis , and compared their effect on whole body oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) and skin microvascular blood flow . the results demonstrated that increasing qo2 by prostacyclin but not by phentolamine significantly increases vo2 in critically ill patients with sepsis . the site of action of vasodilators may therefore play an important role in their ability to unmask an o2 debt . 
pseudomonas aeruginosa compared with escherichia coli produces less endotoxemia but more cardiovascular dysfunction and mortality in a canine model of septic shock . we investigated the effects of two different gram-negative bacteria and radiation-induced leukopenia on endotoxemia , cardiovascular abnormalities , and mortality in a canine model of septic shock . serial hemodynamics were measured in conscious dogs using radionuclide heart scans and thermodilution cardiac output catheters . plasma endotoxin concentrations were determined with a chromogenic limulus amebocyte lysate assay . viable pseudomonas aeruginosa or escherichia coli implanted intraperitoneally produced concordant hemodynamic patterns of septic shock ( p less than 0.01 ) . endotoxin concentrations were more than tenfold lower in dogs infected with p aeruginosa compared with e coli ( p less than 0.0001 ) . despite lower endotoxin levels , p aeruginosa-infected dogs had a higher mortality ( p less than 0.01 ) , more severe hypotension ( p less than 0.05 ) , and greater depression of the left ventricular ejection fraction ( p less than 0.05 ) than dogs with e coli sepsis . a nonlethal e coli challenge combined with leukopenia ( induced by a nonlethal dose of radiation ) resulted in a mortality of 60 percent ( p less than 0.01 ) without greater cardiovascular dysfunction or higher endotoxin concentrations . these findings suggest that bacterial products other than endotoxin and host-related factors may be important contributors to the toxicity , cardiovascular instability , and mortality of gram-negative septic shock . quantitative determinations of plasma endotoxin are unlikely to correlate with the clinical severity of septicemia in heterogeneous patient populations infected with different gram-negative organisms . 
septic pulmonary embolism complicating a central venous catheter . bacteremia is a recognized complication in patients with indwelling central venous catheters . more recently pulmonary embolism in such patients has also been described . despite abundant clinical experience with these devices , to our knowledge , septic pulmonary embolism has not been reported in adult patients . this case illustrates such a complication . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome due to blastomycosis during pregnancy . a 23-year-old healthy woman in her third trimester of pregnancy developed adult respiratory distress syndrome secondary to blastomyces dermatitides . pregnancy-related immunosuppression was believed to be responsible for the fungal infection . following emergency delivery of the infant and a full course of amphotericin b therapy , the patient made an uneventful recovery . although the fetal and maternal sides of the placenta demonstrated fungal spores , the child remained healthy . to our knowledge , this is the first report of blastomycosis-associated adult respiratory distress syndrome occurring during pregnancy . 
management of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess . three cases of brucella endocarditis with aortic root abscess are reported . two patients were successfully managed by a combination of medical therapy and surgery . the third patient died suddenly 36 hours after admission to hospital . 
reduction of contamination at total hip replacement by special working clothes . we assessed wound , air and operative field contamination at 50 total hip operations , performed in a zonal ventilation system . theatre staff wore either a specially designed polypropylene non-woven coverall or conventional cotton shirt and trousers . the surgeons wore partially impermeable operating gowns . the polypropylene coverall was associated with significantly lower air and wound counts . the coverall was warmer than cotton but judged to be acceptable . the combined use of zonal ventilation and the coverall achieved ultra-clean air conditions . 
why use drains ? there is no firm published evidence to support the use of closed suction drains . over 20 years ago , large studies by the public health laboratory service and the national research council found that drains were risk factors for wound infection . a prospective randomised study of the use of closed suction drains after surgery for fractured neck of femur in 70 patients failed to show that drains improved wound healing . drained cases had more complications . 
the efficacy of pediatric blood culture sets in the determination of burn bacteremia . a blood culture is an essential laboratory procedure necessary to confirm a septic episode . however , it is important to collect the blood sample at the appropriate time with an acceptable technique . the standard method is to collect at least 5 to 10 ml blood per culture bottle from patients with fevers . however , this volume of blood is an unrealistic amount to take from the frequently febrile pediatric patient . alternatively , the pediatric blood culture bottle allows the collection of 1 ml blood per bottle to perform the same evaluation . we evaluated the two techniques of blood-culture collection over a 9-month period and compared the results between adult and pediatric blood culture bottles . seventy-six patients , from november 1988 through february 1989 , had blood cultures performed with the adult culture bottles , which produced a total of 1314 samples . a total of 113 patients , from march through july 1989 , had blood cultures performed with the pediatric culture bottles , which produced a total of 758 samples . percent recovery for the adult bottles versus the pediatric bottles was 13.95 % versus 22.8 % ( p less than 0.0001 ) . since the amount of blood necessary to isolate an infectious agent is critical not only for laboratory identification but also for the volume of blood of pediatric patients , these data clearly establish the efficacy of pediatric blood culture bottles and the utilization of smaller amounts of blood . not only did this approach significantly enhance organism recovery rate , but it may well be more cost-effective because fewer cultures need to be performed to isolate the infectious organism . 
lack of association between medication use and the presence or absence of bacteriuria in elderly women . this study was undertaken to determine if there is an association between medication use and the presence or absence of bacteriuria in elderly ambulatory women . of 198 women who participated in three urine culture surveys ( every 6 months ) during the 18-month study period , 66 ( 34.4 % ) had bacteriuria on at least one survey . both univariate and multivariate analyses for the demographics , age , place of residence , and medication use ( by drug class ) revealed that only place of residence had a significant association with the presence or absence of bacteriuria . in this regard , bacteriuric subjects more commonly resided in the nursing home and less commonly lived in the apartment-house complex compared with nonbacteriuric subjects ( p less than .05 ) . therefore , this study demonstrates that in elderly ambulatory women , medication use does not appear to be associated with the presence or absence of bacteriuria . 
absence of significant bacteremia during urinary catheter manipulation in patients with chronic indwelling catheters . the objective of this study was to quantify the microorganisms present in blood at urinary catheter removal and at reinsertion in patients with chronic indwelling urinary catheters . this was a prospective study during a 4-month period at a university-affiliated geriatric medical center . our subjects were 33 patients with chronic indwelling urinary catheters and positive urinary cultures ; the urinary catheter was usually changed once a month . a peripheral vein line was used for blood withdrawal and urinary cultures and quantitative blood cultures ( isolator ) were performed during and shortly after urinary catheter removal and insertion . all patients had significant bacteriuria ( greater than 10 ( 5 ) cfu/ml ) with an average of 2.3 microorganisms . among the 46 sequential quantitative blood cultures performed , only two patients had bacteremia from the urinary source and at a very low concentration ; one patient had 0.13 cfu/ml str . faecalis in blood 5 minutes after removal of the urinary catheter , and the other 0.1 cfu/ml proteus mirabilis 5 minutes after reinsertion of a new urinary catheter . none of the patients had any subjective or objective clinical problem during the 36 hours after the urinary manipulation . clinical symptoms and bacteremia are rare events , and prophylactic antibiotics do not appear necessary during urinary catheter removal and reinsertion in elderly institutionalized patients . further studies are necessary to identify risk factors in the rare instances of patients with bacteremia . 
clinically inapparent ( asymptomatic ) bacteriuria in ambulatory elderly men : epidemiological , clinical , and microbiological findings . in a prospective longitudinal study , ambulatory elderly men were followed from 1 to 4.5 years to gain insight into the prevalence rates , clinical characteristics , and patterns of clinically inapparent ( asymptomatic ) bacteriuria ( cib ) . the prevalence of cib was 12 % ( 29/238 ) and increases with age . unlike the gram-negative organisms that cause overt urinary tract infection in this age group , gram-positive organisms dominated the cib group . both the cib and abacteriuric patients have multiple chronic medical conditions and are indistinguishable on that basis . twenty-nine elderly men with bacteriuria and 105 abacteriuric subjects were followed with serial urine cultures . during the study period the bacteriuric subjects exhibited spontaneous temporary or permanent resolution ( 76 % , 22/29 ) , intermittency ( 21 % , 6/29 ) , and probable bacterial persistence ( 38 % , 11/29 ) . no consistent pattern of bacteriuria was evident . therefore , antimicrobial therapy is not warranted in the treatment of asymptomatic or clinically inapparent bacteriuria in ambulatory elderly men . 
mycobacterium leprae-specific t cells from a tuberculoid leprosy patient suppress hla-dr3-restricted t cell responses to an immunodominant epitope on 65-kda hsp of mycobacteria . the polar tuberculoid type ( tt ) of leprosy , characterized by high t cell reactivity to mycobacterium leprae , is associated with hla-dr3 . surprisingly , dr3-restricted low t cell responsiveness to m. leprae was found in hla-dr3-positive tt leprosy patients . this low responsiveness was specifically induced by m. leprae but not by m. tuberculosis and was seen only in patients and not in healthy controls . we studied this patient-specific , m. leprae-induced , dr3-restricted low t cell responsiveness in depth in one representative hla-dr3-positive tt leprosy patient by using t cell clones . from this patient two types of t cell clones were obtained : one type was cross-reactive with m. tuberculosis and recognized an immunodominant epitope ( amino acids 3 to 13 ) on the 65-kda heat shock protein ( hsp ) the other type was m. leprae specific and reacted to a protein other than the 65-kda one . to examine whether these m. leprae-specific t cell clones were responsible for the dr3-restricted low responsiveness to m. leprae , we tested them for the ability to suppress the proliferation of the dr3-restricted , 65-kda , hsp-reactive clones . the dr3-restricted , m. leprae-specific t cells completely suppressed the proliferative responses of dr3-restricted , cross-reactive t cell clones to the 65-kda hsp from the same patient as well as from other individuals . also , dr3-restricted responses to an irrelevant ag were suppressed by the m. leprae-specific t cell clones . however , no suppression of non-dr3-restricted t cell responses was seen . although the mechanism must still be elucidated , this m. leprae-induced , dr3-restricted immunosuppression may at least partly explain the observed dr3-associated low t cell responsiveness in tt leprosy patients . 
a comparison of rapid enzyme immunoassay tests for the detection of chlamydia trachomatis cervical infections . two rapid enzyme immunoassay test kits were compared with culture for the detection of chlamydia trachomatis endocervical infections . endocervical samples for c trachomatis culture and the two enzyme immunoassay tests were evaluated from 502 county health department and planned parenthood patients . the prevalence of infection in this population was 12 % . sensitivity and specificity of the abbott testpack chlamydia were 51.7 % and 99.5 % , respectively , and of the kodak surecell chlamydia were 76.7 % and 98.6 % , respectively . the positive and negative predictive values for testpack were 93.9 % and 93.8 % , and for surecell were 88.5 % and 96.9 % , respectively . additionally , an in vitro investigation was used to evaluate whether typical office staff ( physicians , nurses , medical technicians , receptionists , and radiology technicians ) were able to perform competently the tests in each kit . office personnel tested 12 dilutions of a c trachomatis stock sample or negative control sample as unknowns for each kit in the in vitro investigation . there were no differences among office staff in performance when compared for each test kit . selective use of these enzyme immunoassay tests for high-risk patients in a family practice population that has a high prevalence of patients with c trachomatis infection may be helpful when rapid test results are required and cultures are not feasible . after appropriate training , most physician office personnel were equally able to perform the enzyme immunoassay tests evaluated . 
neonatal interleukin-1 beta , interleukin-6 , and tumor necrosis factor : cord blood levels and cellular production . in a prospective study , levels of interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) , interleukin-6 ) ( il-6 ) , and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) were measured in a blind fashion in cord blood plasma from 92 neonates by specific immunoassays , and were correlated with the clinical courses of the infants , including type of delivery and perinatal complications . plasma il-1 beta concentration was undetectable in infants born by normal vaginal delivery or elective cesarean section but was significantly increased in infants born after induced vaginal deliveries ( 142 + / - 68 pg/ml ) or urgent cesarean section ( 290 + / - 21 pg/ml ; both p less than 0.05 compared with normal deliveries ) . the il-1 beta levels were elevated in infants with severe perinatal complications ( 282 + / - 116 pg/ml ; p less than 0.001 ) , whereas tnf and il-6 levels were not related to these complications . infants with isolated perinatal infectious complications had elevated levels of plasma il-6 compared with those of sick neonates without infection ( p less than 0.001 ) . in contrast , tnf plasma levels and il-1 beta production by cord blood leukocytes were decreased in infants with infectious complications alone ( both p less than 0.05 ) . these studies suggest that the levels of il-1 beta , il-6 , and tnf in the cord plasma relate differentially to clinical complications in the perinatal period . 
vaginitis emphysematosa . a report of four cases . it has been hypothesized that vaginitis emphysematosa is a manifestation of trichomonal or gardnerella infection . in support of this etiologic concept , four cases of the disorder are described showing the apparent curative effect of treating the associated infection . the linkage of these and other reported cases with conditions of impaired immunity suggests that immunologic factors are involved in the pathogenesis . 
a general model of sexually transmitted disease epidemiology and its implications for control . achieving control of stds may be possible by integrating the activities discussed previously with further research to provide additional empiric data on sex behavior , to develop innovative strategies to access and communicate with those most at risk of std ( i.e. , core-group members ) , and to foster biologic study of std pathogens with the goal of vaccine development . new strategies to identify core-group members aside from the currently used std-repeater status would be of immense help in targeting educational efforts , laboratory screening , and vaccines . achieving more complete control of stds may be possible if recent advances in our understanding of their epidemiology and transmission dynamics can be translated into effective new interventional strategies . 
chlamydial infections . chlamydia trachomatis is a unique intracellular parasite that causes a number of common sexually transmitted disease syndromes , including nongonococcal urethritis in both men and women , epididymitis in men , and pelvic inflammatory disease in women . infants exposed at delivery are at risk for the development of conjunctivitis and pneumonia . there is strong evidence that chlamydia is a cause of obstructive infertility and ectopic pregnancy in women . it appears that these complications result from the chronic inflammatory response and secondary scarring that are elicited by long-term asymptomatic or nearly asymptomatic fallopian tube infections . because treatment with tetracycline , doxycycline , or erythromycin is simple , effective , and inexpensive , major efforts should be put into identifying asymptomatic young women through screening of the subpopulations at highest risk . these include sexually active adolescent women and older women who are not monogamous . blacks are at higher risk than other ethnic groups for infection . the cost of diagnosing chlamydial infection has decreased with the introduction of new nonculture diagnostic tests . this should increase the availability of testing for screening purposes . it is critical to remember that male sex partners of infected women must be treated ; otherwise all efforts to prevent long-term complications by identifying and treating asymptomatic women are doomed to failure . 
syphilis in adults . this article reviews the clinical manifestations of syphilis , diagnostic tests that might help to diagnose accurately the disease , and current recommendations for therapy . the association of syphilis and human immunodeficiency virus infection raises additional questions related to transmission , diagnosis , and therapy of both diseases . 
chancroid and the role of genital ulcer disease in the spread of human retroviruses . chancroid is the most prevalent form of genital ulcer disease in developing countries and is undergoing a resurgence in industrialized countries . as a result of a nonspecificity of the clinical findings , the etiologic diagnosis of genital ulcer disease requires laboratory support . genital ulcer disease is a risk factor for the transmission of human retroviral infections . an understanding of this interaction is emerging and will impact on the treatment and control programs for the agents causing genital ulcer disease . 
human papillomavirus infections of the genital tract . infection of the genital tract by hpv is a sexually transmitted disease of increasing prevalence . the association of hpv infection with genital tract malignancies is of great concern , and further studies are needed to clarify this association . few investigators believe at this time that proof of a direct causative role exists for hpv in these cancers , but indirect evidence of such a role is abundant . there are many clinical forms of hpv infection of the genital tract , and few clinicians can easily recognize them all . treatment of condyloma acuminatum is difficult and frustrating . cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen is the safest and most effective therapy for most forms of condyloma acuminatum . recurrence of condyloma acuminatum is common with all presently used forms of therapy , probably owing to latent hpv infection in normal-appearing skin . no form of treatment is ideal for all forms of condyloma acuminatum , but without continued efforts to find better therapeutic modalities and preventative measures , the epidemic of genital hpv infection will continue unchecked . 
the " nuisance " sexually transmitted diseases : molluscum contagiosum , scabies , and crab lice . although molluscum contagiosum , scabies , and infestation by crab lice do not carry the requirements of partner notification or other long-term consequences , they are among the most commonly reported sexually transmitted disease . molluscum contagiosum is a benign viral infection of the skin epidermal layer , most often transmitted by intimate skin-to-skin contact . the lesions often resolve spontaneously over time , but patient discomfort or social reasons may require destructive removal of the lesions . scabies is caused by the sarcoptes scabiei mite . the victims continually itch , especially at night , and often seek over-the-counter topical remedies before seeing a clinician . once a correct diagnosis is made , successful resolution of this disease and its itching can be achieved . head and pubic lice account for most of the more than three million cases of louse infestation treated in the united states each year . symptoms of infestation generally include itching that leads to scratching , erythema , irritation , and inflammation . a careful diagnosis followed by disinfection , symptomatic treatment , and psychologic support should result in a complete cure with no long-term effects . 
common nonvenereal genital lesions . there are a wide variety of local and systemic skin diseases that produce lesions in the genitoanal region . these lesions may resemble those produced by sexually transmitted microorganisms . the purpose of this article is to make physicians aware of the common skin diseases that produce lesions on the genitalia to avoid the inappropriate diagnosis of a sexually transmitted disease . 
approach to men with urethritis and urologic complications of sexually transmitted diseases . the most important causes of urethritis , and epididymitis in younger men , are c. trachomatis and n. gonorrhoeae . management of these syndromes requires a thorough sexual history , genital examination , evaluation for objective and laboratory evidence of infection , antimicrobial therapy directed toward the major etiologies , and evaluation and treatment of sexual partners . treatment of n. gonorrhoeae requires use of a single-dose regimen active against this organism , plus a 7 - to 10-day tetracycline regime active against c. trachomatis and nongonococcal urethritis . with recommended regimens , microbiologic failure is infrequent in compliant patients . recurrent urethritis is frequent , however . the management of patients with persistent or recurrent symptoms requires careful reevaluation of the patient , documentation of urethritis , and re-treatment with antimicrobials if urethritis is documented by positive cultures or increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions . additional treatment beyond this point usually is not indicated , even though a proportion of men will remain symptomatic and some of these will have increased numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in urethral secretions . the most important causes of prostatitis , and epididymitis in older men or men with urethral structural abnormalities , are classical urinary tract pathogens rather than sexually transmitted pathogens . management of these infections includes documentation of the infection and treatment directed toward the specific pathogen . men with symptoms of " prostatitis " must be evaluated using both urine and prostatic secretions to document infection and inflammation . the majority of men with such symptoms do not have an infection that can be documented . these men respond poorly to medications . men with documented chronic bacterial prostatitis require long courses of antimicrobials to effect cure . in some cases , however , the disease is intractable , and chronic suppression with antimicrobials may be necessary . 
approach to the patient with genital ulcer disease . the three major diseases characterized by genital ulcers -- genital herpes , syphilis , and chancroid -- are common , with genital herpes being most common in industrialized countries and chancroid being most common in developing countries . one fourth to one half of patients with genital ulcers have no diagnosed cause for their illness despite diagnostic efforts . the bulk of these cases is probably constituted by one of the three diseases for which diagnostic tests are falsely negative . there is accumulating evidence that genital ulcers facilitate the transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , and they may also be markers of high-risk behavior for acquisition of hiv . appropriate therapy of patients with genital ulcers ( as well as their sexual partners ) depends on accurate diagnosis . patients with genital ulcers , particularly those with syphilis or chancroid , should be encouraged to undergo testing for hiv infection . 
vaginal infections in adult women . often trivialized by the medical profession , vaginitis in adult women is not only extremely common but is the source of considerable distress and often results in marked suffering . epidemiologic studies described in this article indicate the high prevalence of vaginitis and the large number of causes . although the majority of infections in women are due to bacterial vaginosis , vvc , and trichomoniasis , it is clear that many other causes exist , and we have yet to discover the etiology of many clinical syndromes . considerable progress has been made in understanding the pathogenesis of the three common vaginitides . although excellent progress has been made by the pharmaceutical industry in providing new drugs for vaginitis , any further progress will require a better understanding of etiology and pathogenesis . vaginitis causes major symptoms and is more than a nuisance problem . clinicians owe it to their patients to attempt to make an accurate diagnosis and not to rely on empiric therapy . 
pelvic inflammatory disease . the costs of pid to both individuals and society are enormous . although primary prevention of pid through control of lower genital tract infections is the most effective prevention strategy , early diagnosis and treatment of acute pid may minimize some of its serious sequelae . although laparoscopy is helpful for establishing the diagnosis of salpingitis , other less invasive tests along with selected clinical criteria may also be useful . treatment of pid , which is empiric and broad spectrum , is oriented toward polymicrobial pid . whenever possible , women with pid should be hospitalized for parenteral therapy . the 1989 cdc std treatment guidelines recommend two regimens for inpatient parenteral therapy : clindamycin/gentamicin and cefoxitin , or equivalent cephalosporin/doxycycline . outpatient management of pid should be monitored closely ; the cdc-recommended regimen includes use of intramuscular cephalosporins and oral doxycycline . oral penicillins are no longer recommended . 
sexually transmitted arthritis syndromes . sexually transmitted infections may provoke a wide variety of rheumatic lesions . disseminated n. gonorrhoeae infection leads to septic arthritis , which may be rapidly destructive but which responds promptly to appropriate antibiotic therapy . in contrast , both gonococcal and nongonococcal infections may lead to aseptic " reactive " arthritis or reiter 's syndrome . inheritance of hla b27 confers a relative risk of 30 to 50 times for the development of this condition . the demonstration of c. trachomatis antigen in joint material from a minority of patients suggests that direct interaction between microbial components and class i hla antigens in the joint may be central to the pathogenesis of this disease . arthralgia and arthritis occur in up to 50 % of individuals in the prodrome of hepatitis b infection . joint symptoms may be accompanied by urticarial or cutaneous vasculitic lesions , especially on the legs ; both features resolve with the onset of jaundice . hepatitis b infection is also a major cause of necrotizing vasculitis , which may or may not be associated with overt hepatitis . seronegative arthritis , including reiter 's syndrome , psoriatic arthritis , and undifferentiated arthritis , a sjogren 's - like syndrome , vasculitis , and myopathies have been described in association with hiv infection . it is clear that synovitis occurs in those patients despite the fact that hiv is present in immune cells within the joint during inflammatory arthritis and that both antigen presentation and lymphocyte responsiveness within the joint are impaired . nevertheless , synovitis may occur in the presence of marked cd4-positive lymphocyte depletion . rheumatic syndromes , including arthralgia , inflammatory arthritis , and neuropathic arthritis , may occur during any stage of congenital or acquired syphilis . syphilitic synovitis responds well to antibiotic therapy , but neuropathic lesions can not be treated effectively . septic arthritis has rarely been described as a complication of disseminated mycoplasma or urea-plasma infections , and joint lesions sometimes associated with erythema nodosum have also been reported in lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale . 
sexually transmitted causes of gastrointestinal symptoms in homosexual men . the possible etiologic agents that may cause gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men are multiple , and their diagnosis is complex . this article presents a logical approach to the work-up and diagnosis of gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men and to discuss their treatment and disease intervention . 
the interrelationship between human immunodeficiency virus infection and other sexually transmitted diseases . the epidemiology of hiv infection in the united states is changing , with a dramatic reduction in the incidence of new hiv infection in homosexual men over the past decade because of altered sexual practices . in contrast , heterosexual transmission of hiv is increasing and is disproportionately occurring in inner city racial minorities in association with drug use , populations that are currently experiencing epidemics of previously controlled stds . sexually transmitted diseases , especially genital ulcerative diseases and perhaps c. trachomatis and t. vaginalis , facilitate sexual transmission of hiv . in addition , hiv infection itself appears to increase the severity of certain stds once they are acquired . the control of stds , particularly in those populations that are at high risk for hiv infection , should be of high priority and should be an integral component of aids control programs . 
amoxycillin plus probenecid versus doxycycline for treatment of erythema migrans borreliosis . 72 adults with erythema migrans ( early lyme borreliosis ) were enrolled in a randomised prospective trial comparing amoxycillin 500 mg plus probenecid 500 mg three times a day with doxycycline 100 mg twice a day for 21 days . these antibiotic regimens were chosen because of the known in-vitro sensitivity of borrelia burgdorferi , the antibiotic tissue penetration , the pharmacokinetics of the drugs , and because the organism can disseminate early in the course of infection . 72 patients were evaluable ( 35 in the doxycycline group and 37 in the amoxycillin/probenecid group ) . the two regimens were equally effective for treatment of erythema migrans . mild fatigue or arthralgia were the only post-treatment complaints , which resolved within 6 months . none of the patients needed further antibiotic treatment for lyme borreliosis . 
bird attack on milk bottles : possible mode of transmission of campylobacter jejuni to man a case-control study was carried out to test the hypothesis that the rise in the rate of campylobacter jejuni infection in the brigend area of south wales during may was due to the consumption or handling of milk from bottles that had been attacked by birds . 32 of 36 cases meeting the case definition were interviewed , along with 2 controls per case , matched for age , sex , and area of residence . there were strong associations between campylobacter infection and doorstep delivery of milk bottles , a history of milk bottle attack by birds , milk bottle attack by birds during the week before illness , and consumption of milk from attacked bottles during the week before illness . there was a very strong dose-response relation between frequency of bird attack and illness . controls with a history of milk bottle attack by birds were more likely than cases to have taken preventive measures against bird attack and consumption of contaminated milk . although few people witnessed the attacks , the likely culprits are magpies ( pica pica ) and jackdaws ( corvus monedula ) . 
a randomized , double-blind trial of nystatin therapy for the candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome background . candida albicans infection has been proposed to cause a chronic hypersensitivity syndrome characterized by fatigue , premenstrual tension , gastrointestinal symptoms , and depression . long-term antifungal therapy has been advocated as treatment for the syndrome , which is most often diagnosed in women with persistent or recurrent candida vaginitis . methods . to determine the efficacy of nystatin therapy for presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome , we conducted a 32-week randomized , double-blind , cross-over study using four different combinations of nystatin or placebo given orally or vaginally in 42 premenopausal women who met present criteria for the syndrome and had a history of candida vaginitis . the outcomes studied were the changes from base line in scores for vaginal , systemic , and overall symptoms and in the results of standardized psychological tests . results . the three active-treatment regimens ( oral and vaginal nystatin , oral nystatin and vaginal placebo , and oral placebo and vaginal nystatin ) and the all-placebo regimen significantly reduced both vaginal and systemic symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) , but nystatin did not reduce the systemic symptoms significantly more than placebo . on average , the scores for systemic symptoms improved 25 percent with the three active-treatment regimens and 23 percent with the all-placebo regimen , a difference of only 2 percent ( 95 percent confidence interval , -3 to 7 percent ) . as expected , the three active-treatment regimens were more effective than placebo in relieving vaginal symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) . all four regimens reduced psychological symptoms and global indexes of distress ; there were no significant differences among the treatment regimens . conclusions . in women with presumed candidiasis hypersensitivity syndrome , nystatin does not reduce systemic or psychological symptoms significantly more than placebo . consequently , the empirical recommendation of long-term nystatin therapy for such women appears to be unwarranted . 
interleukin-1 receptor antagonist reduces mortality from endotoxin shock . about five out of 1,000 patients admitted to hospital develop bacterial sepsis leading to shock , the mortality rate for which is high despite antibiotic therapy . the infection results in hypotension and poor tissue perfusion , and eventually leads to the failure of several organ systems . bacterial endotoxin is thought to be the direct cause of shock in gram-negative sepsis , because it can cause shock in animals , and antibodies against endotoxin prevent gram-negative shock in animals and in humans . but , the symptoms of septic shock are the result of the actions of host cytokines induced by the endotoxin . the cytokine interleukin-1 has been implicated as an important mediator of septic shock because it can induce tachycardia and hypotension and act synergistically with tumour necrosis factor to cause tissue damage and death . we now report that a specific interleukin-1 receptor antagonist reduces the lethality of endotoxin-induced shock in rabbits , indicating that interleukin-1 does indeed play an important part in endotoxin shock . 
acute axonal polyneuropathy associated with anti-gm1 antibodies following campylobacter enteritis . we report 2 patients with guillain-barre syndrome ( gbs ) following campylobacter jejuni enteritis . electrophysiologic studies indicated that the predominant process was axonal degeneration of motor nerves , and clinical recovery was poor . serum testing by thin-layer chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed that the sera from both patients contained high titers of igg antibody against gm1 ganglioside . these cases may represent a subgroup of gbs as acute axonal polyneuropathy following c jejuni enteritis associated with anti-gm1 antibodies . 
human immunodeficiency virus infection in pregnancy . among an estimated 1 million to 1.5 million americans infected with hiv , about 10 per cent are women . moreover , almost 30 per cent of hiv infection among women is acquired through heterosexual activity . therefore , the average obstetrician/gynecologist is not sheltered from dealing with hiv . this article offers guidelines for caring for hiv-infected pregnant women during antepartum , intepartum , and postpartum phases . 
calcitonin gene-related peptide levels are elevated in patients with sepsis . calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) , an endogenous vasoactive peptide encoded by the calcitonin gene in nerve cells , is distributed throughout the cardiovascular system and is a potent vasodilator . plasma levels of cgrp have been elevated in animal models with sepsis . this study was designed to determine whether plasma cgrp levels are elevated in patients with sepsis and perhaps contribute to the hyperdynamic cardiovascular state in sepsis . plasma cgrp levels were obtained from normal healthy volunteers and from patients with sepsis . volunteers were afebrile and had normal pulse and blood pressure . patients with sepsis were selected according to the following criteria : ( 1 ) temperature higher than 38.5 degrees c , ( 2 ) white blood count greater than 14,000 / ml , ( 3 ) positive blood culture of bacterial organisms , ( 4 ) hemodynamic parameters consistent with hyperdynamic sepsis , and ( 5 ) negative history of thyroid or other endocrine abnormalities . cgrp was extracted and assayed by radioimmunoassay for iodine 125-labeled human cgrp . in patients with sepsis , the cardiac index was 5.4 + / - 0.5 l/min/m2 ( normal , 3.0 ) ; systemic vascular resistance was 7.1 + / - 0.5 mm hg/l/min ( normal , 16 ) ; oxygen delivery was 1496 + / - 137 ml/min ( normal , 1000 ) . plasma cgrp levels were significantly elevated in the patients with sepsis , 14.9 + / - 3.2 pg/ml , compared to plasma cgrp levels in control volunteers , 2.0 + / - 0.3 pg/ml ( p less than 0.0005 ) . these elevated levels of cgrp may contribute to the decreased vascular resistance and increased cardiac output in the hyperdynamic septic state . 
perirenal candidial abscess . perirenal candidial abscesses are rare , with few well-documented cases in the literature . we describe a case of a perinephric abscess treated with amphotericin b and nephrectomy . 
tetracyclines in urology : current concepts tetracyclines have an unusually broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity . they are generally well tolerated , with relatively few side effects compared with alternative antibiotic choices . tetracyclines also compare favorably with newer antimicrobials , i.e. , oral quinolones , with respect to cost and microbial resistance . doxycycline 's and minocycline 's spectrum of antibacterial activity , pharmacokinetic profile , and safety profile make them preferred drugs when tetracyclines are indicated in urologic infections . 
antibiotic therapy for bacillus species infections . we reviewed 36 cases of culture-proven bacillus species ocular infections occurring between september 1974 and december 1989 . kirby-bauer disk sensitivities were available in 34 of the 36 cases ( 95 % ) . all bacillus species isolates were sensitive to the aminoglycoside antibiotics ( n = 34 ) and to vancomycin hydrochloride ( n = 32 ) ; resistance to clindamycin was found in four of 18 ( 22 % ) of tested isolates . although b. cereus was uniformly sensitive to these antibiotics , resistance to clindamycin occurred in four cases in the non-b . cereus group . the microbroth dilution technique confirmed the kirby-bauer data . the aminoglycosides were uniformly effective , but the cephalosporins ( first , second , and third generation drugs ) were consistently ineffective against b. cereus and varied from sensitive to moderately sensitive for the non-b . cereus isolates . our microbiologic laboratory findings suggest that vancomycin hydrochloride in combination with an aminoglycoside ensures more consistent antibiotic coverage of bacillus species ocular infections . 
helicobacter pylori and associated duodenal ulcer . twenty three children with coexistent duodenal ulcer and helicobacter pylori infection were treated with either two weeks of amoxycillin ( 25 mg/kg/day ) in addition to six weeks of cimetidine , or cimetidine alone . endoscopy with antral and duodenal biopsies for urease test , microaerophilic culture , and histological studies were performed at entry , six weeks , 12 weeks , and at six months . children with persistent h pylori infection at six weeks were given a further two weeks ' course of amoxycillin . h pylori persisted in all children not receiving amoxycillin treatment but cleared in six of the 13 children ( 46 % ) treated with amoxycillin . with failure of h pylori clearance at six months , only two out of six ( 33 % ) ulcers had healed and 50 % of patients had experienced ulcer recurrence . in contrast , when h pylori remained cleared all ulcers healed and no ulcer recurred . persistent h pylori infection was associated with persistent gastritis and duodenitis despite endoscopic evidence of ulcer healing . detection and eradication of h pylori deserves particular attention in the routine management of duodenal ulceration in children . 
continued need for pneumococcal prophylaxis after splenectomy two children died from pneumococcal infection five and eight years after splenectomy . pneumococcal vaccination had not been given to either child . when the infection developed both children were not taking prophylactic penicillin . vaccination and daily penicillin reduce the incidence of this complication and therefore we strongly recommend that both of these measures are continued indefinitely . 
urinary infection following out-patient flexible cystoscopy . of 161 flexible cystoscopies performed in an out-patient endoscopy suite , the incidence of urinary tract infection was 7.5 % . infection rates were higher in patients with a history of previous urinary tract infection or where an additional procedure was also performed . no difference was noted between the infection rates in men and women . 
antibiotic compared with antiseptic prophylaxis for prostatic surgery . two different regimens of cephalosporin antibiotic prophylaxis were compared with antiseptic lubricating jelly to try to prevent infection and complications in 196 men after prostatic surgery . pre-operative urine was cultured and prostatic chips ( 170 cases ) were also cultured to define the source of any infection . the use of antibiotics was associated with a reduced risk of postoperative bacteriuria . no serious complications occurred , although 1 patient in the antiseptic treated group developed rigors ; 79 of 170 patients ( 46 % ) had positive prostatic chip cultures , of whom 74 had sterile pre-operative urine . there was no association between the result of chip culture and the presence of a pre-operative catheter . culture positive patients had an increased risk of post-operative urine infection , although the same organism was found in the prostate and urine in only 36 % of cases of post-operative bacteriuria and in 43 ( 54 % ) the organism cultured from the prostate was staphylococcus albus . this study provides further evidence of the benefit of true prophylactic antibiotic therapy for transurethral prostatic surgery and the prostatic chip data suggest that some of the risk is due to pre-operative contamination of the prostate in the absence of per-operative urinary infection or catheterisation . 
helicobacter pylori and gastric carcinoma . serum antibody prevalence in populations with contrasting cancer risks . this investigation examined the correlation between helicobacter pylori ( hp ) infection , as reflected in immunoglobulin g serum antibodies , and the risk of gastric cancer . serum samples were obtained from populations with contrasting gastric cancer risks . the highest prevalence of hp infection , 93 % , was observed in the adult population at highest gastric cancer risk , the residents of pasto , colombia . in the lower risk colombian city of cali , a 63 % overall prevalence rate was found . both children and adults were sampled in new orleans , louisiana , where gastric cancer rates are high for blacks but not for whites . the prevalence of hp infection was significantly higher in black than in white adults , 70 % versus 43 % , p = 0.0001 . a higher prevalence was also detected in black compared with white children , 49 % versus 32 % , p = 0.01 ; however , an even greater disparity was noted when comparing children from two hospitals , regardless of race , which serve different socioeconomic groups . a prevalence rate of 54 % was found at charity hospital compared with 24 % ( p = 0.0001 ) at children 's hospital . our findings indicate that socioeconomic conditions , known to influence gastric cancer risk , are also important determinants of hp infection . 
metabolic regulation of renal gluconeogenesis in response to sepsis in the rat . 1 . the regulation of renal gluconeogenesis was studied in rats made septic by a caecal ligation and puncture technique . 2 . blood glucose concentrations were not markedly different in septic rats , but lactate , pyruvate and alanine concentrations were markedly increased , compared with sham-operated rats . conversely , blood ketone body concentrations were significantly decreased in septic rats . both plasma insulin and glucagon concentrations were markedly elevated in response to sepsis . 3 . the maximal activities of glucose-6-phosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.9 ) , fructose-1 ,6 - bisphosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.11 ) , pyruvate carboxylase ( ec 6.4.1.1 ) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase ( ec 4.1.1.49 ) were markedly decreased in kidneys obtained from septic rats , suggesting diminished renal gluconeogenesis . 4 . renal concentrations of lactate , pyruvate and other gluconeogenetic intermediates were markedly elevated in septic rats , whereas those of acetyl-coa and fructose 2,6-bisphosphate were decreased and unchanged , respectively . 5 . the rate of gluconeogenesis from added lactate , pyruvate and glycerol was decreased in isolated incubated renal tubules from septic rats . 6 . sepsis decreased the arteriovenous concentration difference for glucose , lactate , and alanine . septic rats showed decreased net rates of glucose production and net rates of removal of lactate and alanine as compared with sham-operated controls . 7 . it is concluded that the diminished capacity for renal gluconeogenesis in septic rats could be the result of changes in the maximal activities or regulation of key non-equilibrium gluconeogenic enzymes or both , but the effect of other factors ( e.g. toxins ) has not been excluded . 
thoracic empyema : causes , diagnosis , and treatment . thoracic empyema is a disease that has been recognized for centuries . the principles of management as stated by hippocrates remain more or less unchanged . diagnosis can be masked by the underlying cause , preemptive antibiotic treatment , or the now frequently associated debilitating diseases . with no other specific investigation , the main diagnostic test remains diagnostic thoracentesis . when an empyema is encountered , the objectives are to save life ; eliminate the empyema , its complications , and chronicity ; return pulmonary mechanics to normal ; and reduce the duration of the hospital stay . the introduction of antibiotics has dramatically influenced the spectrum of the disease now encountered . if the original infection is adequately treated , empyema rarely occurs . penicillin has removed the major cause of empyema , and further developments in antibiotics now mean that the majority of empyemas occur when patients are disabled by other disease processes or malnutrition , or where there remains a delay in medical attention . these patients are often less able to withstand the prolongation of the infective processes that is sometimes encountered with the staged approach to treatment . developments in operative and postoperative care have meant that these patients can best be treated by more aggressive and definitive surgical management . 
causes , diagnosis , and treatment of pharyngitis . pharyngitis is a common disease of the respiratory tract that can be caused by several different viruses and bacterial organisms . clinically speaking , the most important causative agent is group a streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogenes ) . although rare , postpharyngitis complications arise as a result of disease caused almost exclusively by group a streptococcus . because group a streptococcal pharyngitis usually responds well to antimicrobial treatment , it is important to diagnose it . penicillin , erythromycin , and peroral first-generation cephalosporins have been documented to be effective . in addition to group a streptococcus , c. pneumoniae and m. pneumoniae have also been detected in patients with pharyngitis . the possibility of diagnosing these organisms is limited at the present . clinical surveys are still needed , moreover , to evaluate the effect of antimicrobial treatment on the disease caused by these organisms . although routine viral diagnostic methods do not help primary care physicians in treating patients with pharyngitis , information on bacteria and viruses in the immediate environment could prove to be of great help in daily clinical work . 
surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly : a case control study . surgical wound infection occurs in fewer than 5 % of operations . nevertheless , it represents the second most common type of hospital-acquired infection and results in increased morbidity and mortality . as with all nosocomial infections , the rate of surgical wound infection increases with age . patients over 65 years of age run an approximately 15 % risk of surgical wound infection . two-thirds of patients with invasive cancer other than non-melanotic skin cancer are aged 65 years and over . over half of them are treated surgically for their cancer . cancer and other chronic diseases have been cited as possible causes of the increased risk of nosocomial infection among the elderly . using the foothills hospital wound study data base as the sampling frame , we conducted a case-control study of surgical wound infection and cancer among the elderly . cancer was found not to be a risk factor for surgical wound infection . the results are discussed in relation to the role of immunity in both disorders . 
endophthalmitis after placement of a molteno implant . i report a case of early postoperative endophthalmitis following placement of a molteno implant . excellent results were obtained by immediate removal of the implant and surgical management of the infection , followed by replacement of the implant . 
chancroid : results from an outbreak in houston , texas . a recent ( and continuing ) epidemic of chancroid in houston has included morphologic variation in the disease , including so-called dwarf , classic , giant , transient , follicular , phagedenic , and pseudogranuloma inguinale types . most cases were clearly acquired by unprotected sexual encounters with local prostitutes . the strain of haemophilus ducreyi responsible for this outbreak was relatively easily cultured on routine media ; unexpected sensitivity of this strain to vancomycin rendered the recommended " selective " growth medium much less optimal for isolation . therapeutic success uniformly followed the use of intramuscular ceftriaxone sodium ; one case responded to oral ciprofloxacin hydrochloride . 
a resurgence of acute rheumatic fever in a mid-south children 's hospital . a resurgence of acute rheumatic fever ( arf ) has been reported in many areas of the united states in recent years . we retrospectively reviewed the medical records of inpatients with a new diagnosis of arf from 1982 through 1988 at a children 's hospital that serves a six-state referral area in the mid-south . thirty patients were identified , 21 of whom were seen in 1987 ( 13 ) and 1988 ( 8 ) . the rate of new cases of arf per 1000 hospital discharges ( 0.7 ) was significantly greater for 1987 and 1988 than it was ( 0.15 ) from 1982 through 1986 . patients with recently diagnosed arf were predominantly from nonurban areas , and polyarthritis was the most common recent major manifestation . reasons for the resurgence of arf in the us , including the mid-south , are unclear , but our experience serves to support recently published guidelines for the diagnosis and management of streptococcal pharyngitis in light of this resurgence of arf . 
sternoclavicular septic arthritis due to haemophilus influenzae . we have reported a case of septic sternoclavicular arthritis illustrating a rare complication of infection with a relatively common pathogen , haemophilus influenze . early identification of the infecting organism and appropriate antibiotic therapy are essential to prevent further morbidity from the complications of this unusual pyoarthritis . 
drug therapy for helicobacter pylori infection : problems and pitfalls . antibacterial chemotherapy against helicobacter pylori is currently being assessed by open or randomized controlled clinical studies for its efficacy in eradicating this bacterium from the stomach of patients with gastritis or gastroduodenal ulcer . whereas there is presently no " optimal " agent and treatment scheme , the combination of some antibiotics ( metronidazole , tinidazole , amoxicillin ) with bismuth salts proves definitely superior in vivo to either of these agents administered alone . several reasons have been proposed , to explain the clinical failure after treatment : insufficient concentration of active drugs in gastric mucus , instability of some agents at an acidic ph , inappropriate formulation of drug , insufficient duration of treatment , and variable compliance of patients . recently , it has appeared from several clinical trials that h. pylori may rapidly acquire resistance to some antibiotics , and that this event might also account for clinical failure . a critical review of the literature on h. pylori treatment indicates that association of bismuth and antibiotics or of antibiotics alone both may efficiently reduce the risk of emergence of resistance and improve the therapeutic outcome . guidelines of treatment are suggested in order to avoid the future misuse of antibiotics that would increase selection of antibiotic-resistant h. pylori and negatively affect the ecology of the gastric microflora . likewise , an accurate definition of a subset of patients with h. pylori who really will require treatment needs to be rapidly established . 
helicobacter pylori infection : a simplified diagnostic approach . we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic finding of nodular antritis and rapid urease test ( rut ) in order to simplify the approach to the diagnosis of helicobacter pylori ( h. pylori ) infection . forty-four consecutive patients ( mean age 7.9 yr , range 6-13 yr ) referred because of recurrent abdominal pain as the main symptom , were prospectively investigated for the presence of h. pylori . h. pylori positivity or negativity was defined as the concordance of two of the following tests : rut , microbiologic culture , and histologic examination on bioptic samples . rut sensitivity was 100 % , whereas specificity was 87.5 % . the presence of nodular antritis had a sensitivity of 96.4 % and specificity of 87.5 % in h. pylori infection diagnosis . the predictivity value of combined rut and nodular antritis , whether positive or negative , was 100 % . only in case of discordance do we suggest the utilization of other expensive tools for diagnosis of h. pylori infection . 
helicobacter pylori infection in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . a controlled study was conducted on patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection referred for upper endoscopy to evaluate the prevalence of helicobacter pylori ( h. pylori ) infection . four different stains and culture for h. pylori were performed on biopsy specimens from the gastric antrum . sixteen ( 40 % ) of 40 patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) or aids-related complex ( arc ) were diagnosed to be infected with h. pylori versus 14 ( 39 % ) of 36 age-matched control patients . eight of 15 aids/arc patients without aids-related esophagogastroduodenal findings ( 53 % ) were infected with h. pylori versus 8/25 ( 32 % ) with endoscopic findings typical of aids . no invasion of the lamina propria by h. pylori was noted in any patient . active chronic gastritis was present in 60 % of aids/arc patients and 61 % of controls . fifty-eight and 59 % , respectively , of active chronic gastritis cases were infected with h. pylori . all the h. pylori infections , except one , were found in patients with chronic gastritis . in aids/arc patients , h. pylori infection and active chronic gastritis are as common as in other patients referred for upper endoscopy . they may play a pathogenic role , especially when endoscopic aids-related findings are lacking . cell-mediated immune deficiency does not appear to increase the risk of infection with h. pylori . 
comparison of two ascitic fluid culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . the conventional method of ascitic fluid culture detects bacteria in only 50 % of cirrhotic patients with neutrocytic ascites and suspected spontaneous bacterial peritonitis ( sbp ) . we have prospectively compared two ascites culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis : 1 ) conventional ( on chocolate agar , blood agar , mac conkay agar , and thioglycolate broth ) , and 2 ) modified [ inoculation of 10 ml of ascites in a tryptic soy broth ( tsb ) blood culture bottle at the patient 's bedside ] . in a 21-month period , 70 episodes of sbp were diagnosed according to our criteria in 60 cirrhotic patients . both culture methods were performed simultaneously . the conventional grew bacteria in 40 episodes ( 57 % ) , whereas the modified grew bacteria in 54 episodes ( 77 % ) , a significantly higher sensitivity ( p = 0.0001 ) . in 16 cases ( 23 % ) , ascitic culture was negative by both methods . the mortality rate was higher among patients with culture-positive sbp than those with culture-negative sbp ( 46 % vs 37 % ) , but did not reach statistical significance . we conclude that ascitic fluid inoculated into a tsb blood culture bottle at the patient 's bedside should be used routinely for ascites culture in cirrhotic patients . 
liver abscess complicating intratumoral ethanol injection therapy for hcc . we report a patient who developed multiple liver abscesses and sepsis caused by lactobacilli after the percutaneous intratumoral injection of ethanol for hepatocellular carcinoma . we diagnosed the liver abscess at an early stage because of a the finding of gas on ultrasound and computed tomography . blood cultures grew gram-positive rods , which were of the lactobacillus species . the patient responded to the administration of antibiotics , and his hepatic tumors have not recurred in the 7 months since treatment . this is the first report of liver abscess following percutaneous ethanol injection therapy . 
ofloxacin treatment of chlamydia pneumoniae ( strain twar ) lower respiratory tract infections . purpose : limited data suggest that tetracycline or erythromycin is the antibiotic of choice for treating chlamydia pneumoniae infection , but they are not always effective or well tolerated . because the fluoroquinolone ofloxacin is effective for chlamydia trachomatis infections , we investigated its role in treating c. pneumoniae infections . patients and methods : eighty-seven patients were enrolled in a randomized trial of antibiotic therapy for acute lower respiratory tract infections . the patients were randomly assigned to oral treatment with either ofloxacin ( 400 mg twice a day ) or erythromycin ( 400 mg four times a day ) for 10 days . frozen acute and convalescent serologic specimens were tested for twar antibody by microimmunofluorescence . susceptibility testing of c. pneumoniae to ofloxacin was also performed . results : four patients who received ofloxacin were retrospectively identified as having c. pneumoniae pneumonia ( two ) or bronchitis ( two ) . within 2 weeks of starting ofloxacin therapy , all were cured or markedly improved . the minimum inhibitory concentrations of ofloxacin for three previously isolated clinical strains of c. pneumoniae were determined to be 1.0 to 2.0 micrograms/ml , well within the achievable serum levels ( 3 to 5 micrograms/ml ) with ofloxacin therapy . conclusion : ofloxacin may be an effective alternative antibiotic treatment for c. pneumoniae respiratory infections . 
determinants of condom use among french heterosexuals with multiple partners . in september 1988 , a sample of french individuals between 18 and 49 years of age , who reported more than one sexual partner in the past six months and who considered themselves heterosexuals ( n = 1088 ) , were interviewed at home about risk perception of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) transmission , sexual behavior , and condom use . systematic or occasional use of condoms during the previous 12 months was reported by 46.9 percent of respondents . among condom users , 38.7 percent declared they had never used condoms before the last 12 months , fear of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) rather than contraception being the main motivation of these recent users . multivariate analysis indicates that voluntary testing for hiv , average or more than average fear of sexually transmitted diseases ( stds ) , and knowledge of hiv carrier in personal relations are associated with condom use . 
increased septic complications with three-drug sequential immunosuppression for cadaver renal transplants . in 152 renal transplant recipients , the results of immunosuppression with three-drug sequential ( minnesota antilymphocyte globulin , prednisone , azathioprine , and cyclosporine ) immunosuppression ( n = 107 ) were compared with those of a two-drug sequential protocol ( minnesota antilymphocyte globulin , prednisone , and cyclosporine ) that excluded azathioprine ( n = 45 ) . the study groups were comparable by age , sex , etiology of renal failure , incidence of diabetes , and degree of hla matching . patient survival at 1 year was not significantly different in the two groups ( two drug , 93 % versus three drug , 86 % ; p = 0.19 ) . one-year graft survival was superior in the two-drug group ( two drug , 93 % versus three drug , 75 % ; p = 0.02 ) . analysis of primary transplants only ( n = 116 ) yielded the same results . during the first year , the serum creatinine level remained stable in both groups . as expected , the three-drug therapy group had significantly more bacterial and viral infections . for low-risk primary cadaveric renal transplants , two-drug sequential immunosuppression is superior . 
outpatient percutaneous central venous access in cancer patients . a 1-year experience of percutaneous subclavian catheterization in outpatients with cancer was reviewed to document reliability , safety , and cost . there were 763 catheter insertions attempted with prospective documentation of complications in 664 consecutive patients . catheter insertion was successful in 722 attempts ( 95 % ) . there were only 13 pneumothoraces ( 2 % ) . thirty catheters required repositioning ( 4 % ) . the average catheter duration was 191 days ( range : 0 to 892 days ) . fifty-six catheters ( 8 % ) were removed because of suspected infection . documented catheter sepsis occurred in 21 patients ( 3 % ) ; catheter site infection occurred in 8 patients ( 1 % ) . thus , only 0.22 infections per catheter year occurred during this 382 catheter-year experience . the estimated cost of catheter insertion was $ 562 , which is one-third the estimated cost for tunneled catheters ( $ 1,403 ) and for reservoir devices ( $ 1,738 ) . in our experience , percutaneous subclavian catheterization is a reliable , cost-effective method compared with tunneled or reservoir devices , with an equivalent incidence of catheter-related infections . the cornerstone of our success with this program is a staff dedicated to catheter care and intensive patient education . in centers where a large number of patients require central venous access , percutaneous catheterization should be the technique of choice . 
severe anemia is an important negative predictor for survival with disseminated mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ published erratum appears in am rev respir dis 1991 feb ; 143 ( 2 ) :451 ] disseminated mycobacterium avium-intracellulare ( mai ) in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is usually unresponsive to antimycobacterial therapy . we examined clinical and laboratory characteristics of mai organisms and their relationship to the length of survival . we studied factors influencing survival and compared these in 76 patients with aids with and without mai . serum levels of p24 antigen and erythropoietin , and cd4-positive helper t-lymphocytes in blood were assessed in 36 additional patients with various clinical stages of hiv infection . in patients with mai infection , survival was significantly related only to total lymphocyte count , hematocrit , platelet count , and sex . of these , hematocrit and total lymphocyte count were the only linear predictors of survival . anemia was significantly more profound in patients with aids and mai than in the other patients . this anemia in patients with mai could not be ascribed to increased peripheral destruction of red cells , deficient nutritional factors , or erythropoietin production , hiv viral or bacterial load , or a general effect on other blood elements such as neutrophils or platelets . the influence of mai on survival in patients with aids did depend upon whether the mai occurred as an index infection or was preceded by other opportunistic infections . patients with other preceding opportunistic infection lived for a much shorter duration from the time of diagnosis of mai . 
risk factors for staphylococcus aureus nosocomial pneumonia in critically ill patients . staphylococcus aureus nosocomial pneumonia has become an important infection not only because of an apparently increasing incidence but also because of its high mortality rate . a total of 50 episodes of nosocomial pneumonia in critically ill patients in which etiologic diagnosis was well established were prospectively followed in a medical-surgical intensive care unit ( icu ) . s. aureus was isolated in a total of 13 episodes . in the univariate analysis the variables significantly associated with s. aureus nosocomial pneumonia were below 25 yr of age , coma , nonuse of corticosteroids , and antecedent trauma . a step-forward logistic regression analysis defined only coma as significantly influencing the risk of developing s. aureus nosocomial pneumonia . we suggest that antimicrobial drugs active against s. aureus must be included in the initial empirical antimicrobial regimen for treating nosocomial pneumonia in patients with coma . the identification of factors influencing the etiology and the possibility of earlier effective antimicrobial treatment may represent a further step in the control of nosocomial pneumonia in critically ill patients by improving its prognosis . 
a rat model of prolonged pulmonary infection due to nontypable haemophilus influenzae . pulmonary colonization and infection with nontypable ( unencapsulated ) haemophilus influenzae ( nthi ) occurs commonly in the setting of chronic lung diseases . because the study of nthi pulmonary infection in animal models has been limited by the rapid clearance of organisms , a model of persistent pulmonary infection was developed . groups of rats were inoculated by transtracheal instillation of viable nthi suspended in broth or semisolid agar . some rats had received hexamethylphosphoramide ( hmp ) in drinking water before inoculation to cause respiratory epithelial mucosal damage . groups of animals were sacrificed serially . lungs were cultured quantitatively and their gross and microscopic anatomy examined . nthi was recovered in small quantities from few broth-inoculated rats after the first day of infection and in none after day 7 . in contrast , nthi was recovered from the majority of animals and in greater amounts through 2 wk after agar-borne inoculation . hmp pretreatment further enhanced recovery through 4 wk after inoculation with an agar vehicle . the pulmonary inflammatory reaction was brief in broth-inoculated rats . the longer persistence of gross and histologic changes seen in agar-infected lungs paralleled the enhanced recovery of nthi . abscess formation occurred at 7 to 14 days in some agar-inoculated animals . thus pulmonary inoculation of nthi in a viscous vehicle resulted in perpetuation of infection and inflammatory response , and previous damage to respiratory mucosal epithelium induced by hmp further enhanced such infection . 
disseminated conidiobolus infection with endocarditis in a cocaine abuser . a crack cocaine abuser developed disseminated infection caused by a species of conidiobolus not known to cause disease in vertebrates . the fungus gained entry via skin abrasions on the lower extremities , spread through the hematogenous route , and caused endocarditis . there was evidence of fungal infection in the lungs , heart , kidneys , skeletal muscles , and brain . an additional complication was extensive rhabdomyolysis , with a marked elevation of creatine kinase of up to 1.2 million u/l . 
tuberculous meningitis . short course of chemotherapy . in march 1986 , we began a 6-month short course trial of therapy for tuberculous meningitis , in which 28 patients were analyzed . the diagnosis was based on the following cerebrospinal fluid test results : in 53.5 % of the cases , mycobacterium tuberculosis was identified by direct smear ; in 57 % , culture in lowenstein-jensen medium was positive ; in 83.3 % , the detection of anti-bacille calmette-guerin ( bcg ) antibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was positive ; and in 74 % , the dosification of adenosine deaminase activity was positive . in addition , in 21.4 % of the cases , the diagnosis was established by means of autopsy findings . moreover , the diagnosis was supported by bacteriological analyses from another tissue or body fluids . despite the administration of an antituberculous therapy , 32.4 % of the patients died : all of the decreased had reached the last stage of the disease by the beginning of treatment . sixteen percent of the patients who survived after more than 18 months of follow-up after therapy had ended suffered neurological sequelae . with the 6-month therapeutic regimen , the morbidity/mortality is similar to that found in the longer-course therapies . the latter regimen is therefore thought to be a good and acceptable therapeutic option for the treatment of tuberculous meningitis . 
acquired childhood aphasia . outcome 1 year after onset . the effects of the variables age at onset , cause , severity and bilaterality of lesion , and type of aphasia on course and outcome were investigated in a group of 28 aphasic children . analysis of spontaneous speech and tests of auditory verbal comprehension were used to determine the presence of aphasia . the severity of the cerebral lesion was assessed using a rating scale for computed tomographic scans . most of the children had not recovered completely 1 year after onset . recovery was significantly different according to etiological categories . complete recovery was seen in the majority of traumatic cases . 
cumulative aids incidence and altered mortality from bacterial infections . to determine whether populations with high cumulative incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) experienced increased deaths from sepsis , central nervous system abscess , or endocarditis , new jersey aids patients were grouped according to their age , sex , race , and residence-specific cumulative incidence of aids since the onset of the aids epidemic . between 1980 and 1986 , among 25-44 year olds in the highest cumulative incidence group for aids , sepsis mortality increased from 3.3 to 15.2 deaths/100 ,000 / year , an increase of 11.9 deaths/100 ,000 / year ( 95 % confidence interval ( 6.9 , 17.0 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year ) ; mortality from central nervous system abscesses increased from zero to 1.7 ( 0.1 , 3.2 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year ; and mortality from endocarditis increased from 0.8 deaths/100 ,000 / year to 2.4 deaths/100 ,000 / year , an increase of 1.6 ( -0.5 , 3.7 ) deaths/100 ,000 / year . age-matched new jersey patient populations with low cumulative incidence of aids did not sustain a similar increase . the hiv disease-associated increase in sepsis mortality among young populations represents a new component of the substantial increase in u.s. sepsis mortality that occurred over the last two decades , but was previously limited to older populations . 
patterns of bacterial infection in calves implanted with artificial hearts . device-related infection is one of the most serious potential consequences of total artificial heart ( tah ) implantation . this complication must be addressed before the full potential benefit of these devices , especially fully implantable devices , can be realized . a review of research reports and clinical data was conducted to ascertain if similarities existed between the patterns of infection reported in human tah recipients and those seen in the experimental animal models . infection was reported in approximately 57 % of the human tah recipients and approximately 47 % of the implanted animals . implant periods ranged from 1-620 days for the humans , and 32-287 days for the animals . the spectrum of organisms isolated from both groups were similar , with a high proportion of infections caused by pseudomonas aeruginosa and staphylococcus epidermidis . in addition , numerous isolates of enterobacter and enterococci were obtained from the animals . positive blood cultures have often been observed in animals within 2-4 weeks following implantation of the devices . the similarities noted in this review suggest that the calf may be an appropriate animal model in which to study the pathogenesis of tah-related infection . 
peritoneal macrophage beta-2 microglobulin production and bacterial peritonitis in capd patients . to evaluate the role of bacterial peritonitis in peritoneal macrophage ( pm ) beta-2 microglobulin ( b2m ) production , and its relationship with pm interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) and leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) release , the authors studied 20 capd patients ( 10 with peritonitis ) : 1 . in vivo plasma and peritoneal dialysis effluent ( pde ) b2m , il-1 , and ltb4 levels ; 2 . in vitro b2m , il-1 , and ltb4 release by pm . values were compared with those seen in the plasma or with peripheral blood monocytes of 30 hemodialysis ( hd ) patients ( 10 treated with cuprophan [ cu ] ; 10 with polyacrylonitrile [ pan ] ; and 10 with cellulose acetate [ ca ] ) . results showed that in capd patients with bacterial peritonitis b2m , il-1 and ltb4 concentrations in the pde were significantly higher than those seen in capd patients without peritonitis , or in the plasma of hd patients treated with pan or ca , but were similar to those seen in hd patients treated with cu . at the same time , in vitro pm from capd patients with bacterial peritonitis produced more b2m , il-1 , and ltb4 , than did pm from capd patients without peritonitis , or peripheral blood monocytes from hd patients treated with pan or ca . the authors conclude that in capd patients , bacterial peritonitis is able to induce pm b2m production , probably via a cytokine mediated process , which may be analogous to what occurs with peripheral blood monocytes of hd patients treated with cu . 
prevention of infection in a porous tracheal prosthesis by omental wrapping . the ideal tracheal prosthesis has to permit complete incorporation by epithelialization of the luminal surface . this is not possible with the currently available impermeable solid silicone tube . the authors developed a reinforced , porous polyurethane tubular prosthesis which has the potential for complete incorporation . however , because these prostheses are implanted in a contamined area such as the airway , they all become infected . in order to prevent infection , the authors evaluated the effect of omental wrapping in guinea pigs . the authors ' tubular prosthesis was implanted subcutaneously in the abdominal area with the ends open to the air . ten prostheses were wrapped with omentum and 10 prostheses were not . in 4 weeks , all control prostheses were infected and marsupialized . all the wrapped prostheses remained in place and were macroscopically not infected . microscopically , all wrapped prostheses were well vascularized and were incorporated by granulation tissue , which did not occur in the prostheses of the control group . from these results the authors conclude that omental wrapping would be an effective way to prevent infection of porous tracheal prostheses in an open-to-the-air situation , and allow rapid tissue ingrowth and incorporation in the host . 
the role of indium-labelled leukocyte imaging in pyrexia of unknown origin . indium-111-labeled white blood cell scanning is often used in the investigation of pyrexia of unknown origin ( puo ) to locate an otherwise occult source of sepsis . from a series of 166 white blood cell studies performed for sepsis , 28 cases of true puo were identified and reviewed . the sensitivity was 60 % and specificity 70 % , with a positive predictive value of 38 % and negative predictive value of 90 % . only 11 % of studies revealed a pyogenic cause for puo . these results are discussed and the potential role of gallium scanning in puo is raised . 
surgical presentation of kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) . five patients with kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain , peripheral arterial aneurysms , digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction . as the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery , which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent , the recognition of kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy . 
new isotopic technique for detecting prosthetic arterial graft infection : 99mtc-hexametazime-labelled leucocyte imaging . early and accurate detection of prosthetic arterial graft infection is important because this serious complication of vascular surgery carries high morbidity and mortality rates . this report describes the use of a new method of isotopic imaging to detect graft infection using 99mtc-hexametazime-labelled leucocytes . seventeen patients with potentially infected arterial grafts were imaged in addition to routine investigations but were managed according to our normal surgical practice . 99mtc-imaging was positive in eight patients with proven graft infection and falsely positive in one patient with a groin haematoma ( 89 per cent specificity ) . there were no false negatives ( 100 per cent sensitivity ) after an average follow-up of 6 months ( range 3-9 months ) . this technique has proved a reliable and rapid method of confirming graft infection . 
post-cannulation radial artery aneurysm -- a rare complication . the following case report describes an expanding aneurysmal dilatation of the radial artery which developed 17 days following cannulation . possible causes of this complication are : abnormal state of the vessel wall , multiple attempts at cannulation , and haematoma or infection at cannulation site . other major and minor sequelae following arterial cannulation are reviewed . 
widespread dermatophyte infections that mimic collagen vascular disease . this article reports the cases of two patients in whom a widespread dermatophyte infection mimicked the cutaneous lesions of their underlying collagen vascular disease . griseofulvin may be associated with an increased incidence of adverse cutaneous reactions in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . one patient with systemic lupus erythematosus developed erythema multiforme after taking griseofulvin . 
parents ' vs physicians ' utilities ( values ) for clinical outcomes in potentially bacteremic children . our previous analyses of decision strategies in children 3-24 months with acute-onset fever greater than or equal to 39 degrees c and no evident bacterial focus of infection indicated that the risks of routine blood cultures ( the unnecessary hospitalization and treatment of children who clear their bacteremia spontaneously ) outweigh its benefits ( the prevention of a few cases with major infectious sequelae ) . because those analyses were based on parents ' values for beneficial and adverse clinical outcomes , we wished to examine whether those values differed in physicians and , if so , whether the differences were sufficient to change the results of the decision analysis . using a pre-tested linear analog utility ( value ) scale , we evaluated eight potential clinical outcomes in potentially bacteremic children by surveying 121 parents of healthy 3-24-month-old children attending a private pediatric group practice and 57 attending physicians of a tertiary-care children 's hospital emergency room . utilities were based on a 0-1 normalization , where 0 is the utility of the worst outcome ( meningitis or other major bacterial infection , plus venipuncture ) , and 1 the utility of the best outcome ( complete recovery without venipuncture or hospitalization ) , and were analyzed using a recently developed statistical model of utility . the majority of parents and physicians combined the imputed components of the outcomes ( disease , pain of venipuncture , and stress of hospitalization ) in a nonlinear fashion . parents assigned substantially lower utility ( i.e. greater disutility ) to venipuncture , minor infection , and hospitalization than did physicians , and these utilities were even lower in parents with other children at home . 
low gastric acid as a risk factor for cholera transmission : application of a new non-invasive gastric acid field test . although gastric acid is thought to be an important host defense against certain enteric infections , field studies of the role of gastric acid in preventing enteric infections have been hampered by the lack of a suitable non-invasive test . because low gastric acid output ( gao ) is an established risk factor for cholera , we assessed after validation , whether a new non-invasive test which estimates gao by measuring breath hydrogen excess after ingestion of magnesium and a stimulant of gastric acid secretion , could discriminate between persons at high and at low risk of developing cholera . fifteen age-matched pairs , participants in the field trial of two oral cholera vaccines in rural bangladesh , were tested . in each pair the " case " was a person who had recovered from severe cholera at least 6 months before testing and the " control " was a person who resided in the home of a cholera patient but remained uninfected . the stimulated breath hydrogen was higher in controls ( median hydrogen excess = 369 mumol/80 min ) than in cases ( median hydrogen excess = 150 mumol/80 min ) ( p less than 0.05 ) and was higher in controls in 12 out of 15 pairs . the results , which are consistent with past invasive assessments of the association between hypochlorhydria and cholera , suggest that this non-invasive test may be useful in evaluating gao in epidemiological field studies . 
tampon absorbency , composition and oxygen content and risk of toxic shock syndrome . tampon use has been identified as a major risk factor for toxic shock syndrome , although the etiologic role of tampons is not clearly understood . two epidemiologic studies conducted to date have reported an association between tampon absorbency and risk of toxic shock syndrome . this finding is not corroborated by laboratory studies , however , which have suggested that absorbency may be a marker for other characteristics that create an environment conductive to the elaboration of toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 . we used data from the previously reported tri-state study to estimate simultaneously the effects of tampon oxygen content , absorbency and chemical composition . although the data are sparse , oxygen content was more strongly associated with risk of toxic shock syndrome than either absorbency or chemical composition . the results suggest that it may be possible to develop a highly absorbent tampon that is not associated with a high risk of toxic shock syndrome . 
castanospermine vs. its 6-o-butanoyl analog : a comparison of toxicity and antiviral activity in vitro and in vivo . inhibitors of glycoprotein processing , such as castanospermine ( 1,6,7,8-tetrahydroxyoctahydroindolizine ) , have been shown previously to inhibit human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) with acceptable toxicity in cultured human cells . in prior experiments , we have tested the toxicity and antiviral efficacy of castanospermine in mice infected with the rauscher murine leukemia virus ( rlv ) . when compared with 3 ' - azido-3 ' - deoxythymidine ( azt , zidovudine ) , castanospermine was less effective and more toxic . since the 6-o-butanoyl analog of castanospermine was previously found to have a more favorable activity profile than the parent compound against hiv-1 in cultured cells , we compared the antiviral efficacy of both compounds in parallel in vitro and in vivo in the rlv system . plaque formation in the xc assay was inhibited with a 50 % inhibitory concentration ( ic50 ) of 2.4 microm for the 6-o-butanoyl analog of castanospermine , as compared to 9 microm for castanospermine . for both compounds , concentrations resulting in significant cytotoxicity were about ten times higher . both compounds significantly decreased hiv-1 env-induced syncytium formation in a novel in vitro assay . in rlv-exposed mice , the 6-o-butanoyl analog showed no advantage over the parent compound : both curves for toxicity as well as antiviral efficacy were super-imposable . we conclude that the 6-o-butanoyl analog of castanospermine as well as castanospermine itself are active antiviral agents in mice and that prolonged oral administration is tolerable . however , in comparison to azt , their antiviral activity profiles are less favorable . 
prevention of a false diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis by synovial lymphocyte responses . three cases are reported in which a diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis might have been made erroneously from the history , but the enteric origin of the reactive arthritis was evident from synovial lymphocyte responses . the importance of making the correct diagnosis and the avoidance of unwarranted spousal dysharmony is stressed . 
pyogenic sacroiliitis in a rural population . we describe 10 cases of pyogenic sacroiliitis occurring in a rural population . seven were male and 3 were female with a mean age of 22.4 years . none was a recent intravenous drug abuser . five patients had a history of recent pelvic trauma . 99mtechnetium scintiscans revealed increased sacroiliac ( si ) joint uptake in 8 of 8 cases . blood cultures were positive in 60 % of patients . staphylococcus aureus was isolated in 7 cases from blood and/or si aspirates and hemophilus influenzae type b in one case . nine of 10 patients recovered completely . one underwent arthrodesis for recurrent si pain without evidence of relapse of infection . median followup was 18 months . 
sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis : two cases with differing dermatologic syndromes . sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis is a rare rheumatic condition characterized by ossification and erosion of the clavicle and the first rib , that has been shown to be associated with pustular skin lesions . we present 2 cases , one of which had features of pustulosis palmaris et plantaris and the other dissecting cellulitis of the scalp . although the dermatologic manifestations differ , both cases have rheumatologic and roentgenographic features diagnostic of sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis . 
yersinia enterocolitica tenosynovitis . the first case . we describe a case of tenosynovitis of tibialis posterior due to yersinia enterocolitica occurring after injury by a plant thorn in a 55-year-old man . the illness was chronic with 2 recurrences in spite of antibiotic treatment . full recovery was obtained only after surgical intervention . our patient 's chronic course was fostered by the persistence of thorn fragments in the infected area and the exceptionally pathogenic character of the isolated colony of yersinia . 
septic streptococcus milleri spondylodiscitis . we describe 2 patients presenting lumbar spondylitis due to streptococcus milleri . in both cases origin was related to preexistent intestinal pathology . surgical drainage of a collection of pus was necessary in one case . longterm antibiotic therapy led to full recovery . despite confused nomenclature streptococcus milleri must be considered a serious pathogen mainly associated with purulent infection with osteoarticular affinity . 
development and potential use of antibody directed against lipopolysaccharide for the treatment of gram-negative bacterial sepsis . gram-negative bacterial sepsis remains a major cause of lethality in hospitalized patients , despite routine therapy consisting of antimicrobial agents , hemodynamic monitoring and fluid resuscitation , and metabolic support . because a large body of evidence supports the concept that gram-negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( endotoxin , lps ) is responsible for many of the direct and host mediator-induced deleterious effects , recent work has been centered on the development and use of anti-lps antibody preparations in order to ameliorate lethality . both polyclonal and monoclonal antibody preparations directed against the common deep core/lipid a region of lps are cross-reactive in vitro and cross-protective in vivo against a wide range of challenge organisms and lps , and preliminary clinical trials indicate that a reduction in lethality may be possible . the precise endotoxin epitope against which antibody should be directed in order to maximize protection , however , has not been established . this modality most probably will become a standard form of adjunctive therapy within the next several years for the treatment of gram-negative bacterial sepsis . 
the systemic septic response : concepts of pathogenesis . following resuscitation from shock , the clinical phase of persistent hypermetabolism is entered from which a substantial number of patients transcend into progressive organ failure and expire . the available epidemiologic , physiologic , and metabolic data are consistent with the position that a persistent degree of microcirculatory hypoxia , although it may be present in amounts that are below the sensitivity of current detection systems , becomes an increasingly less important etiologic factor as the organ failure disease progresses . rather , aerobic metabolism appears to be the dominant mechanism of meeting the increased work loads and energy demands . there is an increasing body of evidence that cytokine release systemically , and increased cell-cell interaction through cytokines and prostanoids locally , may alter not only parenchymal function in the proximity of these mononuclear cells , but organ function at distant sites . if this latter hypothesis continues to be substantiated , it implies that the underlying cell and organ dysfunction may indeed be reversible if appropriate counter-regulatory mechanisms could be developed and the appropriate timing of their application understood . 
altered ca2 + homeostasis and functional correlates in hepatocytes and adipocytes in endotoxemia and sepsis . decreased cytosolic [ ca2 + ] and impaired ca2 + release in response to an ip3 challenge are among perturbations in hepatocyte ca2 + homeostasis associated with endotoxemia and sepsis . these changes are consistent with the accompanying alterations in appropriate physiologic functions , e.g. , activation of glycogen phosphorylase and gluconeogenesis , mediated by [ ca2 + ] c and defective phosphorylation of relevant enzymes . attenuation of ip3 binding to the subcellular fractions that are imputed to be targets of ip3 and a decrease in the size of the ip3-sensitive pool of releasable ca2 + are underlying components of the mechanism of the reduced ca2 + release upon ip3 stimulation and its metabolic sequelae . et treatment leads to a significant increase in ca2 + associated with the cell surface compartment of adipocytes , a reduction in 45ca2 + uptake by endoplasmic reticulum and higher cytosolic [ ca2 + ] under basal conditions and upon acth stimulation than that observed in cells of control rats . the reduced 45ca2 + uptake is also manifest in adipocytes of septic rats . alterations in adipocyte metabolism induced by et include increased oxidation of glucose to co2 ( an insulin-like effect ) and increased lipolysis upon ne and acth stimulation . 
aberrations in post-trauma monocyte ( mo ) subpopulation : role in septic shock syndrome . appearance of increased proportions of monocytes bearing the 72kd ( fcri ) receptor for igg correlated to aberrant monocyte ( mo ) functions , depressed immune functions , and poor clinical outcome . the trauma patients ' fcri + mo subpopulation produced the majority of their elevated il-6 , tnf alpha , tgf beta , and pge2 . igg stimulation of patients ' mo through fcri not only stimulated tnf alpha , il-6 , and pge2 levels , but also greatly augmented the levels of these monokines produced after subsequent bacterial challenge . post-trauma increased il-6 levels can lead to polyclonal b-cell activation and high levels of circulating , nonspecific igg as seen in trauma patients . this nonspecific igg triggers the fcri on the increased numbers of fcri + mo leading to ever-increasing monokine levels . il-4 was found to downregulate patients ' fcri + mo production of mediators . the cycle of altered cytokine levels , increased fcri + mo numbers , elevated igg , and augmented triggering of fcri + mo may be broken by addition of il-4 . 
