haemophilus influenzae meningitis with prolonged hospital course . a retrospective evaluation of haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis observed over a 2-year period documented 86 cases . eight of these patients demonstrated an unusual clinical course characterized by persistent fever ( duration : greater than 10 days ) , cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis , profound meningeal enhancement on computed tomography , significant morbidity , and a prolonged hospital course . the mean age of these 8 patients was 6 months , in contrast to a mean age of 14 months for the entire group . two patients had clinical evidence of relapse . four of the 8 patients tested for latex particle agglutination in the cerebrospinal fluid remained positive after 10 days . all patients received antimicrobial therapy until they were afebrile for a minimum of 5 days . subsequent neurologic examination revealed a persistent seizure disorder in 5 patients ( 62.5 % ) , moderate-to-profound hearing loss in 2 ( 25 % ) , mild ataxia in 1 ( 12.5 % ) , and developmental delay with hydrocephalus which required shunting in 1 ( 12.5 % ) . one patient had no sequelae . 
mucosal intussusception to avoid ascending cholangitis . many methods have been devised to prevent ascending cholangitis following kasai 's hepatic portoenterostomy for biliary atresia . to investigate the effectiveness of mucosal intussusception in preventing ascending cholangitis , 20 mongrel dogs were randomized to undergo roux-en-y cholecystjejunostomy and common bile duct ligation with or without mucosal intussusception . aeromonas hydrophila was instilled into the gastrointestinal tract . bacterial cultures were grown from samples taken from the gallbladders and lower jejunum , and blood chemistry and barium studies were performed . the barium studies showed satisfactory lack of reflux in all ten dogs with mucosal intussusception . only two of them had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder 3 days after bacterial instillation into the jejunum . all ten dogs in the control group had positive cultures for aeromonas from the gallbladder . our results showed that the mucosal intussusception group had a significantly lower rate of recovery of organisms from the gallbladder compared with the control group when the organisms were instilled into distal intestine ( p less than 0.05 ) . the method is worthy of clinical trial as a means of preventing or treating ascending cholangitis . 
gastrointestinal function and structure in hiv-positive patients . we examined 19 patients ( 17 men ) with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and gastrointestinal symptoms to determine whether those symptoms were due to either a gastrointestinal tract infection or a defect in mucosal absorption because of an enteropathy . the erythrocyte folate and serum vitamin b12 levels were within normal limits in all of the patients . the serum ferritin level was elevated in 12 . the xylose absorption test results were abnormal in 8 of the 13 patients able to complete the study . none of the duodenal aspirates yielded a pathogen . light microscopy revealed nonspecific lymphocytic inflammation without infection in the stomach ( in seven patients ) , the esophagus ( in five ) , the duodenum ( in two ) and the rectum ( in two ) . however , biopsy specimens were positive for candida albicans in the esophagus ( four patients ) , cytomegalovirus in the esophagus ( one ) and the rectum ( two ) , helicobacter pylori in the antrum ( two ) , treponema infection in the rectum ( two ) and mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in the small intestine ( one ) . only three patients had a normal series of biopsy specimens . all of the patients had similar ultrastructural changes at the epithelial-stromal junction of the antral glands and in the intestinal crypts . we conclude that abnormal biochemical and endoscopic findings are common in hiv-positive patients with gastrointestinal symptoms . defects in carbohydrate absorption and ultrastructural changes may be responsible for some aspects of hiv enteropathy . 
epidemiology in bone and joint infection . the studies of community-acquired infection indicate the importance of the environment in which the host-pathogen interaction takes place . whereas the high incidence rates at the extremes of life are compatible with a hypothesis of diminished immune competence , the varying rates of acute osteomyelitis during growth , and its predominantly metaphyseal site , suggest that further studies of the molecular biology of this rather specific infection would be revealing . molecular biology has a role , too , in improving understanding of the epidemiology of resistance and pathogenicity in hospital-acquired infections . although antibiotic prescription and other medical practices influence the environment profoundly , we should remember that we may be experiencing long-term trends beyond our present understanding . as more and more reconstructive bone and joint surgery is carried out , careful observational epidemiology remains a vital tool . 
the diabetic foot . soft tissue and bone infection . diabetic patients , as a consequence of various neurologic , vascular , and metabolic perturbations , are at high risk for developing infections of the soft tissue and bones of the feet . the microbial etiology of soft tissue in infections is best determined by cultures of a tissue curetting or aspiration , rather than a swab . aerobic gram-positive cocci are the major pathogens in diabetic foot infections ; these may be the sole isolate ( s ) in acute uncomplicated infections , but they are usually accompanied by aerobic gram-negative bacilli or anaerobes in chronic or previously treated infections . carefully selected patients with mild infections can be treated as outpatients with oral antibiotics , but others require hospitalization and broad-spectrum parenteral antibiotics . bone infections are frequently diagnosed on the basis of roentgenographs and nuclear medicine scans , but these methods are often inaccurate , and bone cultures should be obtained whenever possible . 
infection in total joint replacement . although a small number of infections in total joint replacements are blood borne from distant sources , most infections appear to have been derived at operation . strenuous attempts to reduce this risk by cleaning the air in the wound environment , coupled with prophylactic antibiotics , have reduced infection rates by an order of magnitude in a decade . during that time the potential for exchange arthroplasty in established infection has been shown , and the results are encouraging . rigorous infection control is the key to containing this difficult and expensive problem . 
analysis of the immune response to lipopolysaccharide . existence of an interspecies cross-reactive idiotype associated with anti-lipid a antibodies . lps is the major surface glycolipid on gram-negative bacteria . in this work , we have idiotypically characterized the antibody response against lps in different species . to do this , we have produced mab against lps . binding of many of these antibodies to lps could be inhibited by lps and lipid a , indicating that the monoclonals are specific for lipid a , the toxic moiety of the lps molecule . one anti-lipid a antibody , ic9 , proved protective against gram-negative bacteremia and endotoxic shock in murine protection models . we generated anti-idiotypic antibodies against ic9 . the binding of several of these anti-id to ic9 was specifically inhibited by lipid a. we used these anti-id to characterize the anti-lps response , and the results revealed that the ic9 id is conserved in different species . the importance of an interspecies cross-reactive id in the response to endotoxin and its relevance in vaccine development for septic shock are discussed . 
organ hypertrophy and responses of colon microbial populations of growing swine to high dietary protein . thirty-two castrated male crossbred growing pigs ( average initial wt 26.9 kg ) were used to determine the effect of a high level of dietary protein ( 37 % ) compared with a normal level of protein ( 15 % ) on enterobacteria and campylobacter sp . inhabitation in the large intestine and on visceral organ hypertrophy and the interrelationships between these two factors . pigs were kept in pairs ( eight pens of two pigs/diet ) and fed their respective diets and libitum . eight pigs ( two pens of two pigs fed each diet ) were killed at wk 4 , 8 , 12 and 16 without fasting . fecal samples were obtained every 2 wk from animals scheduled for necropsy at 16 wk , and colon contents were obtained from all pigs at necropsy ; samples were enumerated individually for enterobacteria and campylobacter sp . weights of heart , lungs , liver , kidneys , perirenal fat and empty stomach , small intestine and large intestine were recorded at necropsy . stomach , cecum and proximal colon were sectioned for histopathologic examination . daily body weight gain was depressed by high dietary protein , but liver and kidneys were heavier in the high protein group than in controls at each time interval . mild lymphoid hyperplasia of peyer 's patches in the small intestine in some pigs in both groups was indicative of antigenic stimulation but not of pathologic significance . there was no effect of diet on counts of enterobacteria or campylobacter sp . in feces or colon contents during the 16-wk experiment . we conclude that the hypertrophic response of the tissues of growing pigs to high dietary protein is not the result of the presence of campylobacter sp . or enterobacteria in the colon contents . 
normalization of plasma arginine vasopressin concentrations when children with meningitis are given maintenance plus replacement fluid therapy we hypothesized that plasma arginine vasopressin ( avp ) concentrations in children with meningitis are appropriate for the children 's degree of hypovolemia , even though the concentrations were higher than expected for the serum osmolality . a randomized study was conducted to compare the effect on plasma avp concentrations of giving maintenance fluid requirements plus replacement of any deficit versus restricting fluids to two thirds of maintenance requirements for 24 hours . plasma avp concentrations and serum osmolality were measured before fluid therapy was begun and again after 24 hours . nineteen children , 2 months to 17 years of age , were studied ; 13 had bacterial meningitis ( 12 with haemophilus influenzae type b ) . ten children ( seven with bacterial meningitis ) received a mean of 1.42 times the calculated maintenance fluid requirements , and nine ( six with bacterial meningitis ) were restricted to a mean of 0.65 times maintenance . children in the maintenance group also received significantly more sodium ( mean = 6.3 meq/kg/24 hr ) than children in the fluid-restricted group ( mean = 2.0 meq/kg/24 hr ) . the two groups were comparable for plasma avp concentration and serum osmolality before fluid therapy was begun . the plasma avp concentration was significantly lower after 24 hours of maintenance plus replacement fluids than after fluid restriction ( p = 0.005 ) , and the change in avp concentration correlated with the amount of sodium given ( p less than 0.02 ) . this study supports the hypothesis that serum avp concentrations are elevated in patients with meningitis because of hypovolemia and become normal when sufficient sodium is given to facilitate reabsorption of water by the proximal tubule of the kidney . patients with meningitis can be given maintenance plus replacement fluids but should be monitored for the development of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone . 
impairment of neutrophil chemotactic and bactericidal function in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and partial reversal after in vitro exposure to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor . because polymorphonuclear neutrophils are the most important component of host defense against bacteria , we assessed their function in 13 children with asymptomatic and 12 with symptomatic infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) , and compared their values with healthy adult control values . the functions assessed were ( 1 ) chemotaxis , ( 2 ) bacterial phagocytosis , ( 3 ) superoxide generation , and ( 4 ) bactericidal activity . chemotaxis of polymorphonuclear neutrophils toward the chemoattractant n-formylmethionyl leucyl phenylalanine ( fmlp ) was significantly decreased in symptom-free infected children compared with control subjects ( p less than 0.0001 ) , but was increased in children with symptomatic infection ( p less than 0.025 ) . bactericidal activity of the neutrophils against staphylococcus aureus was defective in 8 of 12 children with asymptomatic infection ( p = 0.016 ) , and in 8 of 9 children with symptomatic infection ( p less than 0.00001 ) . superoxide generation by polymorphonuclear neutrophils on stimulation with fmlp and phagocytosis of s. aureus were normal . serum from patients with symptomatic hiv-1 infection was not as efficient in low concentrations as normal serum in the ability to opsonize s. aureus . the in vitro bactericidal defect was partially corrected by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) . the results suggest that both cellular ( neutrophils ) and humoral defects contribute to the increased incidence of bacterial infections in hiv-1-infected children , and that gm-csf may improve the defective bactericidal activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in these patients . 
prevalence of hiv infection among patients with leprosy in african countries and yemen . screening for human immunodeficiency viruses types 1 and 2 ( hiv-1 and hiv-2 ) antibodies was carried out in the serum of 1,245 leprous patients and 5,731 controls selected in nine different centers from the congo , ivory coast , senegal , and yemen arab republic . in yemen , all sera were negative . in the congo , the seropositivity among patients and controls was , respectively , 3.8 and 5.2 % ; in senegal , it was 1.3 and 0.6 % ; and in the ivory coast 4.8 and 3.9 % . differences were not statistically significant , even considering lepromatous or tuberculoid forms ( 3.6 % and 3.7 % , respectively ) . hiv-2 antibodies were only detected in subjects from the ivory coast and senegal . using appropriate criteria for seropositivity ( confirmation by western blot , reactivity to hiv envelope glycoproteins ) and a large selection of patients ( several countries with several centers ) , it appears that leprosy ( and specially the lepromatous form ) is not a factor for hiv infection . 
platelet activating factor ( paf ) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) interactions in endotoxemic shock : studies with bn 50739 , a novel paf antagonist . bn 50739 , a new paf receptor antagonist , was tested in vitro and in vivo for its capacity to block paf , endotoxin and recombinant human tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( rtnf ) - mediated effects . in vitro , bn 50739 blocked paf-induced platelet aggregation by 60 to 100 % at 0.2-1 x 10 ( -7 ) m ( p less than .002 ) , respectively . in the conscious rat , pretreatment ( 30 min ) with bn 50739 ( n = 5-13 ) dose-dependently attenuated paf-induced hypotension ( -5 + / - 5 vs. - 43 + / - 2 mm hg , p less than .01 ) and shortened the recovery time of mean arterial pressure ( 22 + / - 13 vs. 325 + / - 46 sec , p less than .01 ) . bn 50739 ( 10 mg/kg i.p. , n = 5-11 ) prevented endotoxin ( 14.4 mg/kg ) induced-hemoconcentration ( 54 + / - 1 vs. 46 + / - 1 % , p less than .01 ) and reduced 24-hr mortality ( 100 vs. 60 % , p less than .05 ) . only partial protection was conveyed by bn 50739 against the hypotensive response to endotoxin ( 115 + / - 3 vs. 91 + / - 4 mm hg , p less than .03 ) . also , bn 50739 attenuated the lipopolysaccharide-induced elevation of plasma thromboxane b2 ( 21.2 + / - 0.8 vs. 46.7 + / - 11.8 pg/100 microliters , p less than .01 ) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( 7523 + / - 3983 vs. 26,430 + / - 3541 u/ml , p less than .05 ) , whereas leukopenia and thrombocytopenia remained unchanged . 
hydroxyethyl starch pretreatment in bacteremic sheep . live bacteria were infused in a chronic ovine lung lymph model to determine if a preceding infusion of the colloid , hydroxyethyl starch ( hes ) , exaggerated the cardiopulmonary dysfunction or impaired removal of bacteria by macrophages in the pulmonary circulation . hes was infused ( 3 ml/kg/hr ; n = 6 ) from 24 to 12 hr before the bacteria and decreased plasma protein content and increased pulmonary lymph to plasma protein concentration because of its oncotic properties . ringer 's lactate ( 2 ml/kg/hr ) was given after stopping hes and also to the control group ( n = 6 ) . infusion of live ps . aeruginosa ( 2.5 x 10 ( 8 ) ps . / min for approximately 30 min ) induced equivalent pulmonary hypertension , increased pulmonary microvascular permeability , and cardiovascular depression in the two groups . the removal of bacteria in the lungs was not affected , indicating that this measurement of the function of the mononuclear phagocytic system was not impaired by the preceding hes . 
the role of antibiotic therapy in the prevention of empyema in patients with an isolated chest injury ( iss 9-10 ) : a prospective study . the purpose of this study was to determine the impact of an antibiotic regimen on the incidence of empyema in patients admitted with isolated chest trauma ( iss 9/10 ) and hemopneumothorax requiring tube thoracostomy . all patients with isolated chest trauma and hemopneumothorax ( estimated iss 9 or 10 ) seen in our trauma center were considered eligible for this study . patients were excluded for the following reasons : age less than 18 years , presence of shock at the time of initial resuscitation , ongoing antibiotic therapy for unrelated disease , documented pre-existing infection or documented abnormal immune status . ninety patients were randomized to two treatment limbs : antibiotics and tube thoracostomy or tube thoracostomy alone . all patients had the procedure performed in the trauma center in a standard fashion . wound care and tube care were identical . antibiotic therapy consisted of a first-generation cephalosporin ( cefazolin ) , one dose given just before the procedure and then q 6 h into the tube removal . injury severity scores were established as described by schwab after the manner of baker . statistical analysis was performed using fisher 's exact test of binary outcome . in this study , antibiotics were able to reduce the incidence of empyema in patients with isolated chest trauma and for such patients antibiotic treatment appears justified . further work is required to determine the effect on patients with more severe injury and multisystem involvement . 
the direct costs of universal precautions in a teaching hospital . an analysis of the increase in expenditures for barrier isolation materials before and after the institution of universal precautions at our 900-bed university hospital was used to generate a national estimate of the cost of implementation of the new centers for disease control guidelines . following the institution of universal precautions , use of rubber gloves at our hospital increased from 1.64 million pairs of 2.81 million pairs annually . a 5-year review of hospital purchasing and supply records in both inpatient and outpatient areas indicated that the total annual costs for isolation materials increased by $ 350,900 . this represented an increase from $ 13.70 to $ 22.89 per admission ( 60 % ) after adjustment for inflation . the cost of isolation materials increased from $ 98 to $ 215 per 1000 outpatient visits , an adjusted increase of 92 % . two thirds of the increase ( 64 % ) was due to rubber gloves and an additional 25 % was due to disposable isolation gowns . universal precautions are estimated to have cost at least $ 336 million in the united states in fiscal year 1989 after adjustment for inflation . if expenditures for isolation materials at our medical center are representative , previous estimates may have significantly underestimated costs nationwide . 
epidemiologic , clinical , and laboratory findings of human ehrlichiosis in the united states , 1988 . in 1988 , the centers for disease control and the oklahoma state department of health identified 40 patients who had a fourfold or greater change in antibody titer in response to ehrlichia canis . the median age of these patients was 42 years , 83 % were male , 76 % became ill between may and july , and 92 % reported recent exposures to ticks . patients resided in or were exposed to ticks in 14 states , including five where ehrlichiosis had not been reported before 1988 . thirty-four patients ( 85 % ) were hospitalized , and many had serious complications , including acute respiratory failure ( seven patients ) , encephalopathy ( six patients ) , and acute renal failure ( four patients ) . pulmonary infiltrates were demonstrated in 14 patients , cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis was seen in 10 patients , and elevated levels of serum creatinine were demonstrated in eight patients . two patients , both of whom had preexisting medical problems , died . nonhospitalized patients received tetracycline therapy earlier in the course of their illness than hospitalized patients . there was no significant difference in the interval from initiation of antibiotic therapy to the first day of defervescence between patients treated with tetracyclines and those treated with chloramphenicol . 
unsuspected syphilitic hepatitis in a patient with low-grade proteinuria and abnormal liver function a 25-year-old patient was found to have cholestatic liver enzyme abnormalities during assessment for asymptomatic low-grade proteinuria at the us naval hospital in portsmouth , virginia . these abnormalities persisted for a 6-month period , and an extensive workup , including viral serologic studies , rapid plasma reagin test , iron studies , ceruloplasmin , antimitochondrial , antinuclear , and anti-human immunodeficiency virus antibodies , endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography , and liver biopsy , was unrevealing until serologic tests for syphilis were repeated to evaluate a new onset of urethral discharge . the patient had none of the more characteristic signs of secondary syphilis . the liver enzyme abnormalities rapidly resolved after treatment with penicillin . syphilis remains the great impostor and still must be considered in the differential diagnosis of unexplained liver enzyme abnormalities , even in a patient with no symptoms or signs of early syphilis . 
outbreak of diarrhoea due to escherichia coli o111 : b4 in schoolchildren and adults : association of vi antigen-like reactivity . during six days in november , 1987 , 611 pupils ( age range 7-19 years ) and 39 adults ( 23-57 ) at a school complex in southern finland had diarrhoea due to escherichia coli o111 : b4 . diarrhoea developed in 137 other household members during the two weeks after the school outbreak . the source of the organism remains unknown . the outbreak strains , when incubated at 22 degrees c or exposed to ampicillin , lost the lipopolysaccharide o antigen and began to react with antisera against salmonella typhi vi antigen . the vi antigen-like reactivity increased the adherence of the organisms to hep-2 cells . these results indicate that e coli o111 : b4 , and possibly other enteropathogenic e coli strains , should be considered in the diagnosis of all diarrhoea cases and not only in infantile diarrhoea . expression of vi antigen in e coli may play a part in virulence by enhancing adherence to the intestinal epithelium . 
ecology , life cycle , and infectious propagule of cryptococcus neoformans cryptococcus neoformans is a biotrophic smut-like fungus , and the epidemiology of cryptococcosis can mainly be explained by exposure to an infective aerosolised inoculum . for c neoformans var gattii it is postulated that the principal infectious propagule is the basidiospore and that exposure to eucalyptus camaldulensis , the host tree , is required to initiate infection in man and animals . c neoformans var gattii may have been exported from australia by infected seeds of e camaldulensis containing dormant dikaryotic mycelium of the fungus . for c neoformans var neoformans both the basidiospore and desiccated encapsulated yeast cells are postulated to act as infectious propagules , the basidiospores showing a seasonal distribution in association with an as yet unidentified host plant , and the encapsulated yeast cells dispersed from accumulations of dried bird ( mainly pigeon ) droppings which act as a year-round vector . 
gentamicin iontophoresis in the treatment of bacterial otitis externa in the guinea pig model . pseudomonas otitis externa is one of the most common infections treated by otolaryngologists . infections induced in 30 guinea pigs appeared similar to that seen in humans . the ears were then placed into four treatment groups : group a , which received a single cleaning ; group b , which received a single cleaning followed by gentamicin drops 4 times daily ; group c , which received a single cleaning followed by a single gentamicin iontophoresis treatment ; and group d , the control group , which received no treatment . infections were analyzed by grading edema , purulence , and erythema . an average of 10.2 days was required for control group to return to normal appearance . groups a , b , and c had mean resolution times of 5.9 , 4.7 , and 4.3 days , respectively . gentamicin iontophoresis appears to be promising , with results as good as drop therapy in otitis externa in the guinea pig model . 
bacterial meningitis : an update . antibiotics and improvements in supportive care have greatly reduced the mortality from bacterial meningitis . nevertheless , the incidence of neurodevelopmental sequelae remains unacceptably high . ampicillin and chloramphenicol remain the standard for antimicrobial therapy against which other agents must be compared . a number of adjunct therapies are being investigated for their possible effectiveness in reducing hearing loss and other neurologic effects of this disease . there continues to be a need for carefully performed follow-up studies to assess any possible benefit of these agents . a significant percentage of children surviving an episode of bacterial meningitis have obvious or subtle neurodevelopmental deficits . the role of the pediatric neurologist should not end with management of acute problems such as seizures but should be expanded to aid in close developmental monitoring of these high-risk children . 
borrelia burgdorferi infection of the brain : characterization of the organism and response to antibiotics and immune sera in the mouse model to learn more about the neurologic involvement in lyme disease , we inoculated inbred mice with the causative agent of lyme disease , borrelia burgdorferi . we cultured brains and other organs , and measured anti-b burgdorferi antibody titers . we further studied a brain isolate for its plasmid dna content and its response in vitro to immune sera and antibiotics . one strain of b burgdorferi , n40 , was consistently infective for mice , and resulted in chronic infection of the bladder and spleen . sjl mice developed fewer culture-positive organs and had lower antibody titers than balb/c and c57bl/6 mice . organism was cultured from the brain early in the course of infection , and this isolate , named n40br , was further studied in vitro . the plasmid content of n40br was different from that of the infecting strain , implying either a highly selective process during infection or dna rearrangement in the organism in vivo . n40br was very sensitive to antibiotics , but only after prolonged incubation . immune sera from both mice and humans infected with b burgdorferi were unable to completely kill the organism by complement-mediated cytotoxicity . these data demonstrate that b burgdorferi infects the brain of experimental animals , and is resistant to immune sera in vitro but sensitive to prolonged treatment with antibiotics . 
reclosure of disrupted abdominal incisions . we evaluated prospectively a technique of delayed reclosure of disrupted abdominal incisions . forty-one consecutive postoperative obstetric and gynecologic patients with abdominal incisions that had opened because of infection , hematoma , or seroma and had intact fascia participated in the study . all wounds were first managed identically , with surgical drainage and debridement , for a minimum of 4 days . the patients then were randomized to either wound reclosure by a standardized en bloc technique ( 35 ) or healing by second intention ( six ) . reclosure was successful in 30 of 35 cases ( 85.7 % ) . the mean time to complete healing was 15.8 days in successful cases , 67.2 days in failed cases , and 23.2 days for all patients who were reclosed . failure to heal after reclosure was due to subcutaneous infection in two patients and seroma in three ; these women were significantly heavier than those in whom reclosure was successful . there were no other major complications of wound reclosure . patients randomized to healing by second intention required a mean of 71.8 days of wound care . the time to complete healing in the wound-reclosure group was significantly shorter compared with the group that healed by second intention ( p = .002 , log rank test ) . we conclude that en bloc reclosure of disrupted surgical incisions , compared with nonsurgical treatment , significantly decreases the time required for wound healing and has minimal morbidity . 
cefazolin for hysterectomy prophylaxis . efficacy data for single-dose cefazolin prophylaxis at hysterectomy are meager , and there are none evaluating the impact of route of administration on efficacy . for these reasons , 772 women undergoing elective abdominal or vaginal hysterectomy for benign diseases were given 1 g cefazolin either intramuscularly or intravenously in a randomized clinical trial . preoperative diagnoses and clinical , surgical , and outcome variables were similar by route of administration for each surgical approach . risk factors for infection after abdominal hysterectomy included younger age , lower postoperative hemoglobin concentration , and pelvic hematoma ; women who developed infection after vaginal hysterectomy were heavier than those who remained uninfected and were more likely to have a pelvic hematoma . the overall incidence of major operative site infection requiring parenteral antimicrobial therapy in evaluable women was 7.2 % : 7.6 % for 539 women undergoing abdominal hysterectomy and 6.3 % for 207 women undergoing vaginal hysterectomy . postoperative infection was unrelated to route of cefazolin administration . 
the effects of chlamydia trachomatis on the female reproductive tract of the macaca nemestrina after a single tubal challenge following repeated cervical inoculations . the effects of repeated cervical infections followed by a single direct tubal inoculation with chlamydia trachomatis , serovars d and f , were examined in 11 pig-tailed macaques to test the hypothesis that tubal inoculation after cervical priming causes a more severe disease than primary tubal inoculation alone . animals were cervically inoculated between two and five times . fallopian tubes were inoculated with serovar d or f 1 week after the last cervical challenge . three control monkeys received only one direct tubal inoculation without previous cervical inoculation . infection was confirmed by isolating the microorganism from the endocervix in 13 of 14 monkeys and from the endosalpinx in four only after the tubal inoculation . antibody was detected in post-infection sera of all 14 . tubal edema occurred in seven of 11 animals after the first cervical inoculation , and uterine erythema occurred in 11 of 11 after the second cervical inoculation . peritubal adhesions were induced before the tubal inoculation in zero of seven given three or fewer cervical inoculations and four of four given five cervical inoculations ( p less than .01 ) . after direct tubal inoculation , peritubal adhesions became more prominent , and the 11 hysterectomy specimens showed plasma cell endometritis in nine and salpingitis in nine . two control monkeys developed minor adhesions , the other none . one tube in two of three controls showed mild plasma cell infiltrates , whereas no evidence of endometritis was observed in controls . histopathology in these monkeys was characteristic of chlamydial endometritis and salpingitis . however , the pathogenesis of these changes is uncertain because c trachomatis was not isolated from the endosalpinx after cervical inoculations alone . 
torulopsis glabrata vaginitis : clinical aspects and susceptibility to antifungal agents . torulopsis glabrata is second only to candida albicans in frequency of isolation from the vagina in both asymptomatic women and patients with yeast vaginitis . we retrospectively studied 33 patients from whom vaginal isolates of t glabrata were obtained . torulopsis glabrata caused symptomatic vaginitis in 42 % of the patients but was unassociated with symptoms in 30 % ; in 27 % of patients , its importance was uncertain because of concomitant pathology . antifungal susceptibility testing was performed on 39 t glabrata strains isolated from 39 patients . the minimal inhibitory concentrations ( mics ) of the majority of t glabrata isolates fell within the sensitive range of the antimycotic drugs tested ; however , no correlation was found between in vitro antifungal mics and the response to azole drug therapy . clinical success was achieved in 67 % of the patients although mycologic cure occurred in only 33 % . a small number of patients developed recurrent and often chronic torulopsis vaginitis unresponsive to conventional therapy . limited experience suggests that vaginal boric acid therapy may be of value in these recalcitrant cases . 
evaluation of the gram stain as a screening tool for maternal carriage of group b beta-hemolytic streptococci . the vaginal infections and prematurity study group . to determine the usefulness of the vaginal gram stain as a screen for maternal group b streptococcal carriage , we compared the presence of gram-positive cocci on gram stain with a cervicovaginal culture in 7755 women at 23-26 weeks ' gestation and in 1452 women at delivery . group b streptococci were isolated from 18.4 % of women at 23-26 weeks and 14.9 % of women at delivery . the sensitivity , specificity , positive predictive value , and negative predictive value of the gram stain were 28 , 69 , 17 , and 81 % , respectively , in mid-gestation and 34 , 72 , 18 , and 86 % , respectively , at delivery . the presence of gram-positive cocci on gram stain was strongly associated with the isolation of gardnerella vaginalis and with the presence of bacterial vaginosis . we conclude that most gram-positive cocci seen on gram stain are probably anaerobes or micrococci and that the vaginal gram stain is neither sensitive nor specific enough to be of use as a tool in the diagnosis of maternal group b streptococcal carriage . 
enumeration of clue cells in rehydrated air-dried vaginal wet smears for the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis . among 235 women attending an outpatient clinic , the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis was made using three of the following four criteria : typical discharge , ph more than 4.5 , positive amine sniff test , and clue cells in a wet smear . these findings were correlated with the finding of clue cells in air-dried wet smears rehydrated more than 1 month after the visit . the rehydrated specimens had the same microscopic appearance as a nonpreserved wet smear . the demonstration of clue cells in the rehydrated smears correlated with the composite diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis with a sensitivity of 96 % and specificity of 98 % . in a busy multi-physician setting , the scoring of clue cells in stored and rehydrated smears can be used to obtain consistent readings for wet-smear diagnostics , thus simplifying teaching and increasing the utility of wet smears in clinical research . 
increased cell adherence of group b streptococci from preterm infants with neonatal sepsis . most women with group b streptococcus cervical colonization have uncomplicated pregnancies , but about 1 % experience preterm premature rupture of membranes ( prom ) followed by neonatal group b streptococcal sepsis . in such cases , streptococcal adherence to and penetration of the membranes may be an important step in the pathogenesis . in the present study , chorionic epithelial cells were incubated with group b streptococci isolated from either children developing sepsis after preterm prom ( complicated pregnancies ) or from uncomplicated pregnancies . incubation periods varied . the numbers of adherent bacteria per chorionic epithelial cell were counted by microscopic examination . after 70 minutes ' incubation , the number of adherent group b streptococci in complicated pregnancies was 38 , compared with 14 in uncomplicated pregnancies ( p less than .001 ) . this difference in vitro might reflect the virulence of group b streptococci . 
a rapid method for detection of group b streptococcal colonization : testing at the bedside . vertical transmission of group b streptococci , the most frequent cause of early neonatal sepsis , can be interrupted by intrapartum antibiotics . however , rapid methods for detecting colonized women must be developed to limit the administration of antibiotics to those who are at risk of delivering an infected infant . the accuracy of a colorimetric test using starch serum medium on vaginal and rectal specimens from women with preterm labor or prolonged rupture of membranes was evaluated . the test was interpreted by labor and delivery room nurses without special microbiologic training . starch serum medium results were compared with those obtained from routine cultures . thirteen of 29 positive vaginal cultures ( 45 % ) and eight of 18 positive rectal swabs ( 44 % ) were identified by nurses using the rapid method . this was significantly different ( p less than .001 ) from sensitivities of 93 and 95 % , respectively , for the same vaginal and rectal specimens interpreted by a bacteriology technologist . the specificity for the test from both sites was 95 % for the nurses . the sensitivity was 53 and 36 % for vaginal and rectal swabs , respectively , for a subgroup of mothers whose infants were assessed as clinically septic . the low sensitivity of starch serum medium as interpreted by nurses in the labor suite is inadequate to allow the test to replace cultures in identifying women colonized with group b streptococci . efforts to increase the sensitivity should be directed toward improving nursing staff interpretation rather than improving the medium itself . 
angiographic arterial embolization and computed tomography-directed drainage for the management of hemorrhage and infection with abdominal pregnancy . hemorrhage during or after surgery , pelvic abscess , bowel obstruction , and prolonged febrile morbidity can complicate the puerperal course of the gravida after removal of an extrauterine fetus with nondisturbance of the extrauterine placenta . in this report we describe the successful angiographic arterial gelfoam embolization of the placental vascular bed to control heavy postoperative hemorrhage in a mother suffering adult respiratory distress syndrome after removal of the fetal portion of her abdominal pregnancy . six weeks later , computed tomography ( ct ) - directed drainage by catheter of a placental abscess was performed . selective angiographic transcatheter embolization with gelfoam is a useful tool for the control of hemorrhage in the gravida who is an unfavorable operative candidate or who may present technical hemostasis problems peculiar to the placenta with abdominal pregnancy . later use of ct-directed catheter drainage of the infected residual placental mass provided a nonoperative means of treatment . 
a clarification on endodontic flare-ups [ comment ] in an article on endodontic flare-ups by robert j. matusow , our research and publications are discussed . since we found what we consider to be distortions and misinterpretations of our work , it was decided to clarify the apparent discrepancies found in matusow 's article . 
progressive osseous destruction as a complication of hiv-periodontitis . a pathologic condition is described , characterized by rampant necrosis of gingival mucosa , periodontium , and related osseous structures associated with systemic infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . it is believed that this condition is an extension beyond the normal clinical course of hiv-periodontitis ( hiv-p ) and manifests itself in three progressive stages : ( 1 ) hiv-associated gingivitis , ( 2 ) hiv-p , and ( 3 ) an extension of hiv-p to osseous necrosis . two cases of osseous destruction attending hiv-p are reported , one of which led to initial diagnosis of hiv infection . they represent the final stage of disease progression with localized necrosis of gingiva , periodontium , and alveolar bone . 
safety and immunogenicity of haemophilus influenzae type b oligosaccharide-crm197 conjugate vaccine in infants aged 15 to 23 months . a total of 268 infants aged 15 to 23 months received one dose of a vaccine composed of haemophilus influenzae type b oligosaccharides covalently linked to the nontoxic diphtheria toxin variant crm197 ( hboc ; hibtiter ) . side effects associated with vaccination were infrequent , transient , and mild . one month after a single vaccination , the anti-h influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide antibody concentration rose from a geometric mean prevaccination level of 0.20 microgram/ml to 13.77 micrograms/ml . of these infants , 99 % had a postvaccination level greater than or equal to 1.00 microgram/ml , a level associated with long-term protection . the immune response was long-lived : all of the children who were monitored 17 to 27 months after vaccination had concentrations greater than or equal to 1.00 microgram/ml . the anti-h influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide antibody generated was predominantly of the igg isotype and igg1 subclass . the immune sera had bactericidal activity in vitro and conferred passive protection in the infant rat meningitis model . 
open lung biopsy in the critically ill newborn . experience with 17 open lung biopsies in critically ill premature neonates was reviewed . despite their small size , prematurity , and near maximal ventilator requirements , the infants suffered no significant complications . in three cases , an infectious agent was identified . in one case end-stage lung fibrosis associated with persistent ( greater than 3 months ) , severe respiratory failure prompted termination of support . in the remainder of the cases , definitively ruling out infection allowed the confident trial of a course of steroids in an attempt to treat bronchopulmonary dysplasia . unlike older patients , the definitive diagnosis of no infection in the premature neonate is just as informative as the diagnosis of an infection . used judiciously , open lung biopsy can be performed in the premature infant with acceptable morbidity and mortality . 
poor compliance with universal precautions : a universal phenomenon ? an anonymous survey was conducted in order to examine compliance with universal precautions in the department of pediatrics at loyola university medical center in maywood , illinois . completed questionnaires were returned by 23 faculty members , 29 residents , and 22 medical students . gloves were worn consistently during venipuncture or intravenous catheterization by 13 , 7 , and 18 % of attending physicians , residents , and students , respectively . most physicians wear gloves only occasionally and cite presence of high-risk factors as their selection criterion . interference with the performance of procedures is the most common cause of noncompliance . in view of poor compliance with universal precautions , further efforts are needed in order to decrease the incidence of preventable exposure to blood-borne infections . 
absent or minimal cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities in haemophilus influenzae meningitis . a case of haemophilus influenzae type b ( hib ) meningitis in which the diagnosis and treatment were delayed because of normal cerebrospinal fluid analysis is presented . a retrospective review was conducted at two children 's hospitals to determine the frequency and clinical characteristics of patients with hib meningitis whose spinal fluid had a normal total white blood cell count , normal chemistries , and negative gram stain , but subsequent growth of hib in culture . of 379 cases of hib meningitis , two had completely normal csf , and two had csf containing small numbers of polymorphonuclear cells as the sole abnormality . in three of the four cases , the duration of symptoms was less than 24 hours , and appropriate therapy was significantly delayed because of benign-appearing csf . normal csf cell counts , chemistries , and gram stain do not exclude the possibility of bacterial meningitis , and one should remain suspicious when a child has clinical findings suggesting meningitis . 
vaginitis . systematically solving a bothersome problem . vaginitis is a common cause of patient visits to primary care physicians . causes include allergic and irritative factors and infectious agents . diagnosis is readily made with use of simple office procedures such as wet smears , stains , and cultures . treatment with appropriate antibiotics or vaginal preparations is usually effective . 
infectious diarrhea . managing a misery that is still worldwide . infectious diarrhea is the largest single cause of morbidity and mortality in the world . bacteria , viruses , and protozoan parasites are the most common causative agents . treatment in most cases of bacterial and viral diseases consists of correcting fluid loss and electrolyte imbalance by oral or parenteral rehydration . antimicrobial therapy is reserved for very ill patients only . with the exception of cryptosporidium , for which no effective agent is yet available , all protozoan infections are treatable with metronidazole . 
bacterial or viral meningitis ? measuring lactate in csf can help you know quickly . measurement of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) lactate is a useful test when properly applied to the appropriate clinical situation and can offer information other csf parameters can not provide . except for gram 's stain of csf , lactate level is the most important csf parameter in the early differentiation of viral ( aseptic ) and bacterial purulent meningitis . 
a study to assess the efficacy of chemoprophylaxis in the prevention of endoscopy-related bacteraemia in patients aged 60 and over . five hundred and fifteen patients aged 60 and over ( mean age 74.7 ; 278 men and 237 women ) underwent routine endoscopic procedures ( gastroscopy , bronchoscopy and cystoscopy ) . alternate patients were given antibiotics before the procedure , as currently recommended , and blood was taken for culture from all patients within five minutes of completion of the procedure . of 74 patients who underwent bronchoscopy , only one culture , from one of 37 controls was positive . of 262 who underwent gastroscopy , cultures were negative in the 130 who received antibiotics but positive in 13 of the 132 controls ( 9.8 per cent p less than 0.001 ) . cystoscopy was performed in 179 ; one culture was positive in the 88 given antibiotics ( 1.1 per cent ) compared to 25 in the 91 controls ( 27.5 per cent ; p less than 0.001 ) . bacteraemia rates appear to be low following bronchoscopy ( less than 5 per cent ) but higher with gastroscopy ( 10 per cent ) and cystoscopy ( 28 per cent ) . chemoprophylaxis was effective in reducing these rates in this patient group . 
oral findings in hiv-infected patients attending a department of internal medicine : the contribution of intraoral examination towards the clinical management of hiv disease the occurrence of oral mucosal lesions was studied in 70 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients , including 35 patients with aids , who had been admitted to a department of internal medicine . lesions of the oral mucosa were observed in 52 patients ( 74 per cent ) . oral candidiasis ( 50 per cent ) , hairy leukoplakia ( 14 per cent ) , periodontal disease ( 13 per cent ) , and oral kaposi 's sarcoma ( 4 per cent ) were the most common lesions . oral mucosal lesions suggestive of hiv infection were present in ten of 12 patients of unknown hiv status in whom pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was suspected . close cooperation between the medical and dental professions is recommended since accurate intraoral examination can make a valuable contribution towards the clinical management of hiv-infected patients and may influence the cdc classification of this disease . 
endocarditis in the 80s in a general hospital in auckland , new zealand . the clinical and investigative features of 102 episodes of infective endocarditis were analysed retrospectively . the most frequent presenting symptoms ( malaise , fever , sweats , myalgia , weight loss ) were non-specific . fever , cardiac murmur , tachycardia , vascular phenomena and a change in mental state were the most common physical signs at admission . anaemia was present in half the episodes and renal and liver dysfunction in about one-third . streptococci ( 61 ) and staphylococci ( 31 ) were the causative organisms in all but 10 episodes . the commonest predisposing factors were underlying cardiac disease ( 52 per cent ) and a preceding focus of infection ( 14.6 per cent ) . left ventricular failure ( 33 per cent ) and focal neurological disease ( 29 per cent ) occurred frequently . valvular surgery was performed in 20 episodes , with two in-hospital deaths . overall hospital mortality was 27.5 per cent and death was most commonly neurological ( 11/28 ) . a higher mortality was associated with elevated total white blood count , microscopic haematuria , renal or liver dysfunction at admission , s. aureus endocarditis , the development of left ventricular failure or focal neurological disease , age greater than or equal to 60 years and persistence of fever after one week of antibiotic therapy . the absence of both renal dysfunction at admission and subsequent microscopic haematuria identified a group with a very low hospital mortality ( 4.7 per cent ) . the three-year mortality of the entire group was 43.5 per cent . 
derivation and validation of a clinical diagnostic model for chlamydial cervical infection in university women we developed and prospectively tested a logistic regression model for chlamydial cervical infection . study subjects included 2271 women receiving gynecologic care in our student health clinic . clinical data were collected in a standardized fashion . we identified cell culture -- isolated chlamydia trachomatis from 133 ( 9 % ) of 1458 subjects in the derivation set and 73 ( 10 % ) of 729 subjects in the validation set . model variables included a new sexual partner within 2 months or more than one sexual partner within 6 months ; cervical ectopy ; cervical friability ; at least 20 polymorphonuclear leukocytes per high-power field in cervical secretions ; white blood cells in vaginal secretions ; and use of an antibiotic active against c trachomatis within a month . this model can distinguish women with low , medium , and high risks of chlamydial infection ( on derivation set : receiver operating characteristic curve area , 0.710 ; se , 0.026 ; on validation set : area , 0.698 ; se , 0.035 ) using simple clinical information obtained in the office . 
health issues at the us-mexican border with a rapidly growing population , increasing manufacturing activity , and increased interdependence , health issues on the us-mexican border are demanding greater attention . it is unlikely that any other border in the world separates two nations having such variety in health status , entitlements , and utilization . binational initiatives in the areas of environmental health and sanitation are clearly needed . further cooperation between the united states and mexico in provision of health services is warranted and will probably require enhanced federal funding or subsidies to be successful . 
breast milk and neonatal necrotising enterocolitis in a prospective multicentre study on 926 preterm infants formally assigned to their early diet , necrotising enterocolitis developed in 51 ( 5.5 % ) . mortality was 26 % in stringently confirmed cases . in exclusively formula-fed babies confirmed disease was 6-10 times more common than in those fed breast milk alone and 3 times more common than in those who received formula plus breast milk . pasteurised donor milk seemed to be as protective as raw maternal milk . among babies born at more than 30 weeks ' gestation confirmed necrotising enterocolitis was rare in those whose diet included breast milk ; it was 20 times more common in those fed formula only . other risk factors included very low gestational age , respiratory disease , umbilical artery catheterisation , and polycythaemia . in formula-fed but not breast-milk-fed infants , delayed enteral feeding was associated with a lower frequency of necrotising enterocolitis . with the fall in the use of breast milk in british neonatal units , exclusive formula feeding could account for an estimated 500 extra cases of necrotising enterocolitis each year . about 100 of these infants would die . 
a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy following intravenous antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis . one hundred thirty-six patients were enrolled in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy ( amoxicillin ) versus placebo following successful intravenous ( iv ) antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis . no subjects were readmitted to the hospital for recurrent endometritis and there were no wound infections or recurrent fevers . minor side effects were seen in 10 % of those taking amoxicillin and 14 % of those taking placebo . compliance was fair ; only 52 % of those taking amoxicillin and 65 % of those taking placebo completed therapy . the lack of infectious complications in this high-risk population suggests that oral antibiotic therapy is unnecessary after successful iv antibiotic therapy for endometritis . 
haemophilus influenzae : an important cause of maternal and neonatal infections . although haemophilus influenzae is recognized as a major pathogen of infants , its role in maternal and neonatal infections is not as well appreciated . we analyzed the records of all mothers and neonates infected with h influenzae over a 10-year period . twenty-eight mother/neonate sets were identified in which at least one had documented infection with h influenzae . of the 18 mothers with documented infection , 13 had chorioamnionitis , endometritis , or both , and two of these mothers were bacteremic with h influenzae . of the 23 infected neonates , 15 presented with early sepsis and/or pneumonia and nine had conjunctivitis . during the period of the study , only group b streptococci and escherichia coli were more common as causes of early neonatal bacteremia . under the conditions of this retrospective study , maternal infection predicted neonatal infection . however , prospective studies in which asymptomatic patients are cultured will be required to determine how well maternal colonization/infection with h influenzae predicts neonatal infection . 
posterior infectious crystalline keratopathy with staphylococcus epidermidis . two cases of infectious crystalline keratopathy located in the posterior stroma after penetrating keratoplasty are presented . topical steroids and suture removal were risk factors in both cases . in the first case , a moderate anterior chamber reaction was present . crystalline infiltrates persisted on topical and systemic steroid therapy . in the second case , deep corneal ulceration , hypopyon , and vitreitis were noted . a vitreous aspirate showed rare gram-positive cocci in pairs . the corneal ulceration and crystalline keratopathy persisted despite intravitreal and topical antibiotics . therapeutic penetrating keratoplasty was performed in both cases . staphylococcus epidermidis sensitive to vancomycin was isolated from corneal tissue . light microscopy documented aggregates of gram-positive bacteria anterior to descemet 's membrane , with an overlying keratitis . electron microscopy in the second case showed all bacteria within stromal keratocytes . no clinical recurrence was seen using topical vancomycin . as demonstrated in the cases presented , infectious crystalline keratopathy can occur exclusively in the deeper layers of the cornea . isolation of s. epidermidis , associated inflammation , and intraocular spread of organisms are rare findings . 
retained intraocular foreign bodies and endophthalmitis . retained intraocular foreign bodies ( iofbs ) are associated with endophthalmitis in approximately 7 to 13 % of cases . the role of prompt surgical removal of the foreign body along with the use of intravitreal antibiotics in reducing this figure is uncertain . retained iofbs presenting to the medical college of wisconsin between july 1986 and june 1989 were reviewed . a total of 27 cases were evaluated and surgically treated . none of the 27 cases presented with or developed clinical signs of endophthalmitis , yet bacterial cultures of the removed intraocular material were positive in seven cases ( foreign body in 5 cases , the aqueous fluid and the vitreous fluid in 1 case each ) . all eyes presenting within 24 hours of injury underwent immediate surgery ( average , 4.5 hours after presentation ) . of the seven eyes with positive intraocular cultures , all had pars plana vitrectomy removal of the iofb and three of these eyes received intravitreal antibiotics at the time of surgery over concern of a high risk of infection . two of these eyes eventually grew out the bacillus sp . all eyes received subconjunctival antibiotics and postoperative topical and systemic antibiotics . even after the positive cultures , no signs of clinical infection developed in any of the eyes . all seven eyes retained excellent visual acuity of 20/70 or better at an average of 10 months ' follow-up . follow-up ranged from 1 to 31 months . prompt surgical intervention , the use of intravitreal antibiotics in high-risk-type injuries , and the possible use of vitrectomy surgery may reduce the incidence and severity of endophthalmitis . 
management of post-tuberculous complex aspergilloma of the lung : role of surgical resection . of 14 patients with complex aspergilloma complicating healed tuberculosis , 12 underwent lobectomy or pneumonectomy for recurrent haemoptysis . no deaths occurred , though one patient needed re-exploration for bleeding . there was no postoperative worsening of dyspnoea despite a mean forced vital capacity ( fvc ) of 60 % predicted for the patients undergoing surgery and of 20 % predicted for two patients with severe restrictive defects , perhaps owing to the fact that there was little or no function in the resected part of the lung , as shown by preoperative isotope ventilation-perfusion scanning , and that patients were under the age of 50 and generally fit . there has been no recurrence of haemoptysis during follow up , which has been from 12 to 33 months . surgical resection , provided that cases are carefully selected , offers the best chance of cure with low mortality and morbidity . 
lipid infusion increases oxygen consumption similarly in septic and nonseptic patients . this investigation compared the metabolic effects of lipid infusion in five septic and five nonseptic patients . oxygen consumption was determined by indirect calorimetry over 1 h of rest and during 2 h when intralipid ( 20 % ) was infused [ 166 ml/h ; 23 kj/min ( 5.5 kcal/min ) ] . septic patients had a resting metabolic rate 17 % higher than that of their nonseptic control subjects and a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) rise ( 13 % ) in oxygen uptake was measured in both groups of subjects during the 2-h infusion of lipid . preinfusion respiratory quotient ( rq ) was 7 % higher in the septic patients ( p less than 0.05 ) , and during the infusion period rq decreased similarly ( approximately 6 % ; p less than 0.05 ) in both groups . plasma catecholamines were elevated in the septic patients preinfusion and the concentrations remained unaltered during the infusion . norepinephrine rose significantly in the nonseptic group with the lipid infusion . the results show that sepsis has little or no influence on the characteristic rise in metabolic rate that occurs with intravenous lipid . 
a rabbit model for bacteria-induced preterm pregnancy loss . bacterial infection has been implicated in premature labor in humans . to elucidate mechanisms and potential intervention strategies , we sought to develop a model of infection-induced pregnancy loss in rabbits . on day 21 ( 70 % of gestation ) , each uterine horn was inoculated hysteroscopically with 0.2 ml containing saline solution of 10 ( 6 ) cfu escherichia coli or bacteroides bivius or fusobacterium necrophorum . fetal viability was assessed . animals were sacrificed at various times or as delivery occurred . serum progesterone and amniotic fluid prostaglandins were measured . cultures and histologic sections were prepared . compared with the saline solution group , e coli and f. necrophorum-inoculated rabbits were significantly more likely to deliver ( 16 of 16 and six of seven with mean times of 31.9 + / - 10.7 and 28.3 + / - 11.5 hours , respectively for e. coli and f. necrophorum ) . positive amniotic fluid cultures for the e. coli group were found in 11 of 12 ( 92 % ) and for the f. necrophorum group in three of three cases ( 100 % ) . histologic inflammation was seen heavily in both the e. coli and f. necrophorum groups , whereas it was absent in the saline solution group . inoculation with b. bivius led to a much lower pregnancy loss rate ( eight of 32 ) and less histologic inflammation despite positive uterine cultures in most animals . this model may provide an opportunity to determine mechanisms of clinical or subclinical intraamniotic infection and to test intervention strategies . 
in vitro inhibition of esterase activity in amniotic fluid : comparison with bacterial cultures . assessment of leukocyte esterase activity in amniotic fluid for the rapid and reliable diagnosis of chorioamnionitis has been demonstrated previously . we compared in vitro inhibition of esterase activity in amniotic fluid with bacterial cultures to identify the origins of the specific esterases released by the infecting organisms . one hundred forty-one samples were tested ( 90 uninfected , 51 infected ) . each sample was evaluated for gram stain , cultures , and an in vitro esterase assay followed by ebelactone inhibition . forty-two patients had positive amniotic fluid cultures . ebelactone produced varying degrees of inhibition of esterase activity ( range , 20 % to 60 % ) in the uninfected samples and in those infected with gram-negative organisms . there was no inhibition in the samples infected with gram-positive organisms . thus different groups of bacteria may elicit the production of different and specific esterases in infected amniotic fluid , as shown by the differences in in vitro inhibition . 
methicillin-resistant staphylococcal colonization and infection in a long-term care facility objective : to determine the natural history of colonization by methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ) among patients in a long-term care facility . we specifically sought to determine if mrsa colonization was predictive of subsequent infection . design : cohort study . setting : long-term veterans affairs medical center . patients : a total of 197 patients residing on two units were followed with regular surveillance cultures of the anterior nares . main outcome measurement : the development of staphylococcal infection . results : thirty-two patients were persistent carriers of mrsa and 44 were persistent carriers of methicillin-susceptible strains ( mssa ) . twenty-five percent of mrsa carriers had an episode of staphylococcal infection compared with 4 % of mssa carriers and 4.5 % of non-carriers ( p less than 0.01 ; relative risk 3.8 ; 95 % ci , 2.0 to 6.4 ) . the rate of development of infection among mrsa carriers was 15 % for every 100 days of carriage . using logistic regression analysis , persistent mrsa carriage was the most significant predictor of infection ( p less than 0.001 ; odds ratio , 3.7 ) . seventy-three percent of all mrsa infections occurred among mrsa carriers . isolates of mrsa from 7 patients were typed . colonizing and infecting strains had the same phage type in all 7 patients and the same pattern of plasmid ecori restriction endonuclease fragments in 5 patients . conclusions : colonization of the anterior nares by mrsa predicts the development of staphylococcal infection in long-term care patients ; most infections arise from endogenously carried strains . colonization by mrsa indicates a significantly greater risk for infection than does colonization by mssa . the results offer a theoretic rationale for reduction in mrsa infections by interventions aimed at eliminating the carrier state . 
primary dapsone-resistant hansen 's disease in california . experience with over 100 mycobacterium leprae isolates we found that in the years 1978 through 1981 only one of 54 previously untreated patients with hansen 's disease was found to harbor dapsone-resistant mycobacterium leprae . that single strain was only partially resistant , ie , it was resistant to 0.0001 % dapsone in a mouse diet but not to higher concentrations . during the years 1983 through 1988 , m leprae from 47 previously untreated patients presenting to clinics in san francisco , calif , and los angeles , calif , grew in mice . none of these strains was found to be dapsone resistant . thus , from 1978 through 1988 only one of 101 m leprae isolates obtained from skin biopsy specimens from patients with leprosy was found to be resistant to dapsone . we have concluded that primary dapsone resistance still does not appear to be a significant problem in california . owing to the fact that our single resistant case and those reported from international sources are , in general , partially resistant , the potential importance of partial dapsone resistance is discussed . 
' cystic papilloma ' in humans ? demonstration of human papillomavirus in plantar epidermoid cysts . fourteen cases of plantar epidermoid cyst were studied immunohistochemically and five of them were also studied electron microscopically for the presence of human papillomavirus . in eleven cases , the test results were positive for papillomavirus antigens , and in five of them , papillomaviruslike particles were observed by electron microscopy . histological examination showed most of the cysts to contain intracytoplasmic eosinophilic bodies in cells of the cyst wall as well as the vacuolar structures in the keratinous mass within the cavity . these findings suggest an etiologic association between the papillomavirus and plantar epidermoid cysts . the " cystic papilloma " produced in rabbits by the shope papillomavirus has been clearly demonstrated . we propose that human papillomaviruses play an important role in the genesis of plantar epidermoid cysts . this is the first report on the possible existence of a cystic papilloma in humans . 
hepatic abscess . changes in etiology , diagnosis , and management . most recent reviews of pyogenic hepatic abscess emphasize percutaneous versus open surgical management and devote little time to studying the etiology or the clinical condition of the patient . in this study a detailed review was performed with a computerized analysis of multiple clinical parameters in 73 patients treated for pyogenic hepatic abscess during a 17-year period . the mean age of the patients was 55 years and 38 of them ( 52 % ) were male . the mortality rate was comparable for solitary ( 17 % ) and multiple ( 23 % ) abscesses . the likelihood of death was higher with antibiotic treatment alone ( 45 % ) or percutaneous treatment ( 25 % ) than with surgical treatment ( 9.5 % ) . the primary determinant of outcome , however , was the underlying disease , i.e. , malignancy or an immunocompromised patient , rather than solitary versus multiple abscesses . in addition the incidence of hepatic abscess seen at this center has doubled from the first half to the second half of the review , reflecting a population of more severely ill patients . it is apparent that in current clinical practice several methods of management are effective , and the choice of therapy should be determined by individualized selection . the principle of timely diagnosis and prompt institution of treatment appropriate to the specific patient remains the standard of care in this potentially grave disease . 
streptococcal antibody cross-reactivity with hla-dr4 + ve b-lymphocytes . basis of the dr4 associated genetic predisposition to rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease ? [ published erratum appears in br j rheumatol 1991 jun ; 30 ( 3 ) :222 ] b-lymphocytes obtained from patients with either rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease and from normal subjects were reacted with serum obtained from rabbits immunized with streptococcal cell wall antigen . the presence of cytotoxicity was sought using an inverted phase microscope after differential uptake of eosin dye . the serum was found to be significantly more cytotoxic to hla-dr4 containing cells of both patients and normals compared with dr4 negative cells ( p less than 0.0001 ) . 
immunologic evidence for the in situ deposition of a cytoplasmic streptococcal antigen ( endostreptosin ) on the glomerular basement membrane in rats . endostreptosin ( ess ) is an antigen derived from the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of nephritogenic group a and to a lesser extent group c and g streptococci . it is immunologically not related to streptococcal exoenzymes or the streptococcal cell wall and can be detected on the endothelial side of the glomerular basement membrane of kidney biopsies of patients with acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( asgn ) during the early phase of the disease . highest and most persistent antibody titers to this antigen are found in patients with asgn . immunoaffinity isolated ess was injected i.v. into the tail vein of wistar furth ( w/fu ) rats for up to five successive days . the animals were sacrificed on days 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 . frozen sections of the rat kidneys were tested by immunofluorescence against rabbit anti-ess-antibody and against sera from patients who had recently recovered from asgn as well as against anti-rat-igg and c3 . the basement membranes of rat kidneys were positive for ess deposition starting from day one on , but were negative for anti-rat igg and c3 during the first four days . rats sacrificed on days 8-12 showed increasing deposition of igg and c3 with decreased staining for ess . the sera of rats sacrificed on days 1-3 had no detectable anti-ess antibodies ; whereas animals from day 4 on had low levels of anti-ess antibodies as determined by microcomplement fixation . control animals showed no staining for ess , igg , c3 as well as no detectable anti-ess antibodies . 
decrease in mean platelet survival time in acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( apsgn ) . in an attempt to study further the possible participation of platelets in the pathogenesis of acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( apsgn ) , we studied the platelet survival time , as an index of platelet activation , in 22 patients with apsgn . mean platelet survival time was computed from the disappearance of radioactivity from blood , sampled serially after injection of autologous 51cr-labelled platelets . c1q solid phase elisa and conglutinin ( k ) solid phase elisa were used to measure the serum levels of immune complexes . the platelet survival time in apsgn patients was 113 + / - 10 h vs 197 + / - 10 h in the control group ( p less than 0.001 ) ; 68 % of the patients had a shortened platelet survival , lower than 95 % confidence limit . there was a significant increase in the platelet survival in the six patients that were studied after recovery from acute nephritic syndrome . there was no significant association between the mean platelet times survival and cics ( circulating immune complexes ) . similarly , no significant correlation was found between the mean platelet lifespan and the severity of the glomerular disease , as assessed by the serum creatinine level and the proteinuria . these results support evidence of platelet activation and consumption in apsgn and we suggest that this activation occurs in the glomeruli capillary wall , due to platelet-vascular wall interaction . 
staphylococcus aureus infection of human endothelial cells potentiates fc receptor expression . vasculitis , a recognized complication of staphylococcal-endovascular infections , may result in part , from the expression of fcr by staphylococcus aureus-infected endothelial cells . fcr were measured using [ 51 ] cr labeled srbc preincubated with rabbit anti-srbc igg . fcr were not detected on uninfected endothelial cells , but were demonstrated on s. aureus infected cells using igg , but not igm labeled srbc . fcr expression was dependent on the initial bacterial density ( greater than or equal to 8 x 10 ( 7 ) cfu/ml ) and on phagocytosis of the staphylococci , but not on new protein synthesis . igg labeled srbc binding was blocked by aggregated igg but not igm . srbc coated with the f ( ab ' ) 2 portion of igg did not bind , thus confirming that fcr were specifically involved in this interaction . fcr are expressed after s. aureus invasion of human endothelial cells and may contribute to the vasculitis which often accompanies s. aureus-endovascular infections . 
immunogenicity and protective effect against oral colonization by streptococcus mutans of synthetic peptides of a streptococcal surface protein antigen . streptococcus mutans is known to be a major causative organism of human dental caries . a surface protein ag with a molecular mass of 190 kda of s. mutans ( pac ) is receiving attention as an anticaries vaccine . we have recently determined the complete nucleotide sequence of the gene for pac . in this study , four peptides were synthesized on the basis of amino acid sequence of pac . among these peptides , pac ( 301-319 ) corresponding to the alanine-rich repeating amino acid region was the most strongly bound by polyclonal murine anti-rpac antibodies . the peptide partially inhibited the binding of polyclonal anti-rpac antibodies to rpac . the peptide induced the proliferation of t cells from balb/c mice immunized with rpac . subcutaneous immunization with pac ( 301-319 ) or rpac emulsified in cfa/ifa induced high serum igg responses to rpac and pac ( 301-319 ) . in addition , serum igg responses to a surface protein ag with a molecular mass of 210 kda of streptococcus sobrinus were elicited in mice immunized by s.c. injection with pac ( 301-319 ) or rpac . intranasal immunization with pac ( 301-319 ) coupled to cholera toxin b subunit ( ctb ) or with rpac and free ctb induced high serum igg responses to rpac . the immunization with pac ( 301-319 ) coupled to ctb or rpac and free ctb suppressed the colonization of murine teeth by s. mutans . these results suggest that intranasal immunization with the peptide or rpac may be effective for the prevention of dental caries . 
pneumococcal pneumonia in a rat model of cirrhosis : effects of cirrhosis on pulmonary defense mechanisms against streptococcus pneumoniae . to study alterations in host defense mechanisms that enhance pneumococcal virulence , a model of streptococcus pneumoniae pneumonia was developed in cirrhotic rats . cirrhosis , with or without ascites , was produced in rats by intragastric administration of carbon tetrachloride ( ccl4 ) . histopathologic and laboratory studies demonstrated that ccl4-induced cirrhosis was similar to alcoholic cirrhosis in humans . cirrhotic rats were more susceptible to type 3 pneumococcal pneumonia induced by intratracheal challenge than controls , and the presence of ascites was associated with the lowest ld50 . more cirrhotic rats with ascites had bacteremia and elevated levels of circulating capsular antigen after challenge compared with cirrhotic rats without ascites or controls . pulmonary clearance of pneumococci was markedly reduced in rats with cirrhosis and ascites and was associated with reduced serum complement levels . this model may be useful in further studies of the pathogenesis and therapy of pneumococcal infections in the compromised host . 
the human antibody response to streptococcal c5a peptidase . an elisa was developed to measure antibody , both igg and iga , against the streptococcal c5a peptidase ( scp ) , in human sera and saliva . generally , sera and saliva from young , uninfected children lacked antibody to scp . in contrast , most sera and saliva specimens from healthy adults had measurable levels of anti-scp igg and scp-specific secretory iga ( anti-scp siga ) . paired acute and convalescent sera from patients with streptococcal pharyngitis possessed significantly higher levels of anti-scp igg than did sera from healthy individuals . sera containing high concentrations of anti-scp immunoglobulin were capable of neutralizing scp activity . a survey of healthy adults and children also showed that the latter were significantly less likely to have anti-scp siga in their saliva . detection of this antibody in greater than 90 % of the saliva specimens obtained from children who had recently experienced streptococcal pharyngitis demonstrated that children can produce a secretory response . this is thought to be the first report of a secretory iga response in humans to a somatic antigen of streptococcus pyogenes . 
mediastinitis following coronary artery bypass surgery : a 3-year review . twenty cases of mediastinitis after coronary artery bypass graft operations in 1985-1987 were reviewed to determine risk factors . two distinct clusters with a methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ) strain occurred in 1986 . one resident was exposed to six cases but to only 5 of 24 controls ( p less than .008 ) . cultures of his nares in january and november 1986 revealed the same mrsa strain as that of the cases . an attempt to eradicate the resident 's nasal carriage of mrsa in january 1986 failed ; eradication of his carrier state was achieved only after treatment with mupirocin . in a case-control study examining patients exposed to the resident , a prolonged duration of surgery ( p less than .05 ) and a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl ( p less than .009 ) were associated with mediastinitis with this mrsa . for the other 14 mediastinitis patients , who were not exposed to the resident , a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl was also a risk factor ( 8/14 cases vs. 8/43 controls , p less than .009 ) . thus , this study suggests that it is important to follow mrsa disseminators and to recognize that preoperative serum albumin levels are a risk factor for mediastinitis . 
immunization of mice with antibiotic-treated escherichia coli results in enhanced protection against challenge with homologous and heterologous bacteria . the murine immune response to escherichia coli exposed to subminimal inhibitory concentrations of four antibiotics was investigated . groups of mice were injected for 8 weeks with formalin-killed bacteria and subsequently challenged with 10 x ld50 of viable e. coli . mice receiving saline only ( controls ) died within 24 h. the mortality of mice immunized with ciprofloxacin-treated e. coli was significantly lower than that of mice immunized with e. coli untreated or treated with other antibiotics . sera from mice immunized with ciprofloxacin-treated bacteria showed better bacteriostatic capacity and enhanced production of antibodies that bound to homologous and heterologous lipopolysaccharide isolated from several smooth and rough gram-negative strains . the better protection observed in mice immunized with ciprofloxacin-treated e. coli was probably due to an enhanced production of antibodies to epitopes on lipopolysaccharide that became better exposed and so more accessible after treatment with ciprofloxacin . 
predictive index for optimizing empiric treatment of gram-negative bacteremia . in a survey of 296 episodes of gram-negative bacteremia in 286 patients ( aged 13-99 years ) , four clinical variables were found to predict both significantly and independently the subsequent isolation of a multiresistant strain ; hospital acquisition of the infection , antibiotic treatment before the bacteremic episode , endotracheal intubation , and thermal trauma as the cause of hospitalization . these variables were combined in an index that served to classify the patients into four groups with an increasing prevalence of multiresistant strains , pseudomonas isolates , and isolates resistant to each of the antibiotic drugs in common use . for example , the percentage of isolates susceptible to cefuroxime in the four groups were 79 % , 56 % , 34 % and 25 % , and to gentamicin , 89 % , 79 % , 46 % , and 33 % ( p less than .001 for both comparisons ) . the performance of the index was validated in a second group of 144 episodes of gram-negative bacteremia . the index kept its discriminative power . compared with the prescriptions of the attending physicians , the index could probably have improved empiric antibiotic treatment in 24 % of patients . 
instillation of vancomycin into a cerebrospinal fluid reservoir to clear infection : pharmacokinetic considerations . vancomycin instilled in an ommaya reservoir was used to treat a reservoir-associated infection . vancomycin concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) were measured , and derivation of pharmacokinetic parameters allowed tailoring of dosing . first-order kinetics were observed . the calculated half-life of 3.52 h was less than reported by others , and the apparent volume of distribution ( 60 ml ) was less than anticipated . the elimination constant was 0.197 h-1 . empiric dosing based on schedules suggested in the literature would have led to high peak and low mean concentrations of intrareservoir vancomycin . patients with reservoir-associated infections have a variety of pathophysiologic conditions that can result in alteration of normal csf dynamics . pharmacokinetic analysis is useful to individualize dosing and to optimize therapy with intrareservoir vancomycin . 
exacerbation of bacterial toxicity to infant ferrets by influenza virus : possible role in sudden infant death syndrome [ published erratum appears in j infect dis 1991 jul ; 164 ( 1 ) :232 ] of several toxins examined , only staphylococcal alpha and gamma toxin , endotoxin , and diphtheria toxins were lethal for 5-day-old ferrets . their toxicities were enhanced in animals infected at 1 day old with influenza virus , from 3-fold with staphylococcal gamma toxin through 14-fold for staphylococcal alpha toxin , 84-fold for endotoxin , and 219-fold for diphtheria toxin . no increased viral replication occurred in any tissue ; thus the effects of the toxins were exacerbated by the infection , not vice versa . neonates died suddenly without clinical symptoms as in human babies dying from the sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) . pathologic examination showed inflammation in the upper respiratory tract , lung edema and collapse , and early bronchopneumonia in the toxin - and influenza virus-treated animals but not in those treated with toxin or virus alone . thus , bacterial toxins could play a role in sids , this being more likely with a concomitant influenza virus infection . 
divergent efficacy of antibody to tumor necrosis factor-alpha in intravascular and peritonitis models of sepsis . the role of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) in the lethal consequences of intravascular lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) or escherichia coli sepsis was compared with that in bacterial peritonitis . intravenous administration of e. coli lps or e. coli ( live or dead ) resulted in large transient increases in serum tnf alpha levels , peaking at 90 min at 10,000-30 ,000 units/ml . in contrast , the serum tnf alpha response following the induction of bacterial peritonitis was substantially less , peaking at 200-500 units/ml . sterile peritonitis ( essentially nonlethal ) and bacterial peritonitis ( greater than 60 % lethal ) elevated tnf alpha levels to 1000-2000 units/lavage within the peritoneal cavity 2 h after challenge . passive immunization with neutralizing goat anti-tnf alpha igg improved survival from 8 % to 75 % in rats administered lps intravenously but was completely ineffective in protecting rats from lethal e. coli peritonitis . thus significant differences exist in the role tnf alpha plays in systemic intravascular models of sepsis and bacterial peritonitis . 
tumor necrosis factor and severe malaria . to investigate the relation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) to plasmodium falciparum infection , plasma tnf alpha concentrations were measured in zairian children with severe malaria , mild malaria , or other illnesses . the initial geometric mean plasma concentration of tnf alpha among 61 children with p. falciparum infection , ( 71 pg/ml ) was higher than the level in 26 severely ill , aparasitemic children ( 10 pg/ml ; p less than .001 ) . among 29 parasitemic children , initial geometric mean tnf alpha levels decreased from 77 to 5 pg/ml ( p less than .001 ) at day 7 . tnf alpha levels increased with parasite density and were associated with hyperparasitemia , severe anemia , hypoglycemia , and young age but not with cerebral malaria or fatal outcome . however , tnf alpha levels were elevated equally in children with cerebral malaria and with other signs of severe malaria . with multiple linear regression , tnf alpha levels were elevated independently in children with hyperparasitemia ( p = .001 ) and severe anemia ( p = .04 ) . in this study , high tnf alpha levels were associated with several manifestations of severe malaria and were not specific to cerebral malaria . 
shunt surgery for hydrocephalus in tuberculous meningitis : a long-term follow-up study . hydrocephalus is a common complication of tuberculous meningitis . case studies of 114 patients with tuberculous meningitis and hydrocephalus , who underwent shunt surgery between july , 1975 , and june , 1986 , were reviewed to evaluate the long-term outcome and to outline a management protocol for these patients based on the results . seven factors were studied in each case : 1 ) age at admission ; 2 ) grade on admission ( i to iv , classified by the authors ; grade i being the best and grade iv being the worst ) ; 3 ) duration of alteration of sensorium ; 4 ) cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) cell content at initial examination ; 5 ) csf protein levels at initial examination ; 6 ) number of shunt revisions required ; and 7 ) the necessity for bilateral shunts . during a long-term follow-up period ranging from 6 months to 13 years ( mean 45.6 months ) , the mortality rate was 20 % for patients in grade i ; 34.7 % for patients in grade ii ; 51.9 % for patients in grade iii ; and 100 % for patients in grade iv . only the grade at the time of admission was found to be statistically significant in determining final outcome ( p less than 0.001 ) . based on these results , the authors advocate early shunt surgery for grade i and ii patients . for patients in grade iii , surgery may be performed either if external ventricular drainage causes an improvement in sensorium or without selection . all patients in grade iv should undergo external ventricular drainage and only those who show a significant change in their neurological status within 24 to 48 hours of drainage , should have shunt surgery . 
the management of flail chest injury : factors affecting outcome . the records of 57 patients presenting with flail chest injury from 1981 through 1987 were reviewed to determine factors affecting morbidity and mortality . fifteen patients ( 26 % ) had 8 + rib fractures with a unilateral flail and seven ( 12 % ) had multiple rib fractures with a bilateral flail . thirty-two ( 56 % ) had moderate-severe pulmonary contusions and 44 ( 77 % ) required chest tubes for hemo-pneumothorax . ventilatory assistance was used in 36 ( 63 % ) . the major factors determining the need for ventilatory assistance were : an iss greater than or equal to 23 , blood transfusions in the first 24 hours , moderate-severe associated injuries ( fractures , head injuries or truncal organs requiring operation ) , and shock on admission ( p less than 0.001 ) . an adverse outcome occurred in 15 ( 28 % ) ; nine required ventilatory assistance greater than or equal to 14 days and six died of sepsis with pneumonia . the main factors associated with an adverse outcome were : an iss greater than or equal to 31 ( p less than 0.001 ) , moderate-severe associated injuries ( p less than 0.001 ) , and blood transfusions ( p less than 0.005 ) . although the primary determinants of an adverse outcome were the associated injuries and blood loss , a bilateral flail ( p less than 0.01 ) and age greater than or equal to 50 years ( p less than 0.02 ) were contributing factors . 
treatment of candidosis in severely injured adults with short-course , low-dose amphotericin b. thirty-three ( 0.7 % ) of 4,818 trauma patients admitted between january 1 , 1987 , and july 1 , 1989 , developed invasive candidosis requiring iv antifungal therapy . all patients were seriously traumatized . before developing candidosis , all patients had documented bacterial infections . these infections were generally polymicrobial and were treated with multiple broad-spectrum antibiotics ( an average of 5.4 antibiotics for 17.2 days ) . twenty-eight ( 85 % ) of 33 patients received enteral feedings for an average of 11 days + / - 1.5 ( sem ) before developing candidosis and 24 ( 73 % ) received ng/oral nystatin for an average of 7.6 days + / - 0.9 before developing candidosis . all patients with candidosis were treated with intravenous amphotericin b : cumulative dose of 157.3 mg + / - 31.3 mg given over 10 days + / - 1.1 . one patient developed recurrent candidosis despite ng/oral prophylaxis and enteral feedings . six patients ( 18 % ) died due to sepsis and multiple organ failure . the patients who died did not objectively differ from the survivors . candidosis is an infrequent infection in severely injured patients . candidosis was invariably preceded by treatment with multiple broad-spectrum antibiotics for a variety of polymicrobial bacterial infections . ng/oral nystatin and enteral feedings did not prevent candidosis , in contrast to widely accepted beliefs . amphotericin b therapy was safe . recurrent candidosis was unusual . candida infections had a high mortality rate associated with multiple blood transfusions and prolonged hospitalization . candidosis represents a sign of severe injury and illness but can be amenable to prompt , aggressive treatment . 
septic hip in pelvic fracture with urologic trauma : case report . urologic injuries occur in 10 % of pelvic fractures and hip sepsis is a rare complication . the symptoms of a septic hip are often not as dramatic when found in the setting of an acute pelvic fracture and may be overlooked . a case is presented with a review of the literature . early recognition and aggressive surgical debridement are important to prevent the long-term sequelae of septic arthritis . 
contaminant blood cultures and resource utilization . the true consequences of false-positive results . to determine whether contaminant blood cultures increase resource utilization , we studied charge and length of stay data for episodes in which blood cultures were obtained from hospitalized adults . compared with 1097 negative episodes , 94 false-positive episodes were associated with increased subsequent length of stay ( median , 12.5 vs 8 days ) and subsequent total charges ( median , $ 13,116 vs $ 8731 ) , pharmacy charges ( median , $ 1456 vs $ 798 ) , and laboratory charges ( median , $ 2057 vs $ 1426 ) . in multivariate analyses , contaminants were independently correlated with 20 % and 39 % increases in total subsequent laboratory charges and intravenous antibiotic charges , respectively . thus , the true costs of contaminants may greatly exceed those of the test itself . identifying patients at very low risk of bacteremia and attention to sterile technique may reduce costs by decreasing the frequency of contaminants . 
surgical outcome in 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the iran-iraq war . variables important in predicting the final postsurgical outcome of 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the iran-iraq war were evaluated over a 99-month period . the type of projectile , site of injury , and presence or absence of foreign material did not seem to have a significant effect on the final outcome . of the patients with a perforating type of injury , 48.8 % had a poor surgical outcome as compared with 19.9 % with a penetrating type and 15.6 % with a tangential type . this difference is statistically significant ( chi 2 = 14.7 and 17.1 , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) . the most important factor in predicting overall outcome was the glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) score at the time of admission . mortality and morbidity contributing to a poor surgical outcome were noted in only 6 % of patients with a gcs score at admission of 13 to 15 , in 24.6 % of those with a gcs score of 9 to 12 , in 57 % of those with a gcs score of 6 to 8 , and in 65 % of those with a gcs score of 3 to 5 . of the 71 patients who died , 75 % had a score of 3 to 8 . perforating projectiles or those traversing two or more dural compartments were statistically significant in contributing to mortality and morbidity ( chi 2 = 17.2 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the incidence of focal neurological deficit was 100 , 90.6 , 88 , and 52.2 % in patients with gcs scores of 3 to 5 , 6 to 8 , 9 to 12 , and 13 to 15 , respectively . the two best predictors of mortality in this group of patients were a low gcs score and infection . 
bismuth subsalicylate in the treatment of acute diarrhea in children : a clinical study . bismuth subsalicylate ( bss ) and placebo were evaluated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled study as adjunct to rehydration therapy in 123 children , aged 4 to 28 months , hospitalized with acute diarrhea . the dosing regimen was 20 mg/kg five times daily for 5 days . significant benefits were noted in the bss group compared with placebo as manifested by decreases in stool frequency and stool weights and an improvement in stool consistency , significant improvement in clinical well-being , and shortening of the disease duration . patients treated with bss had a significant reduction in duration of hospital stay ( 6.9 days ) compared with placebo-treated patients ( 8.5 days ) . also , intravenous fluid requirements decreased significantly more rapidly and to a greater degree in the bss-treated group . bismuth subsalicylate was associated with clearance of pathogenic escherichia coli from the stools in 100 % of cases but was not different from placebo in rotavirus elimination . bismuth subsalicylate was well tolerated with no reported adverse effects . blood bismuth and serum salicylate levels were well below levels considered toxic . in this study , bss provided effective adjunctive therapy for acute diarrhea , allowing children to get well sooner with less demand on the nursing and hospital staff . 
bacteremia with otitis media . to investigate the occurrence and outcome of bacteremia associated with otitis media , charts were reviewed from patients who were 3 to 36 months of age , had temperatures greater than or equal to 39 degrees c , and were diagnosed with isolated clinical otitis media . a total of 2982 patients were identified . blood cultures were obtained from 1666 ( 56 % ) . of the 1666 patients , who had blood drawn for cultures , 50 ( 3.0 % ) had bacteremia . these included 39 with streptococcus pneumoniae , 4 with haemophilus influenzae , 2 with neisseria meningitidis , 3 with salmonella species , and 2 with staphylococcus aureus . the incidence of bacteremia increased at higher temperatures , being 1.9 % at temperatures less than or equal to 40 degrees c and 5.0 % at temperatures greater than 40 degrees c. younger children were more likely to have bacteremia ; 3.7 % less than or equal to 12 months of age , 2.4 % 13 to 24 months of age , and 1.9 % 25 to 36 months of age had blood culture results that were positive ( not significant ) . reevaluation of the 50 bacteremic patients showed that 9 patients had continued fever , 3 patients had persistent bacteremia , pneumonia developed in 1 patient , and meningitis developed in 1 patient . it was concluded that ( 1 ) 3 % of young febrile children with otitis media have bacteremia at the time of evaluation , a rate comparable to that previously reported in children with no focus of infection ; ( 2 ) the incidence of bacteremia increases at higher temperatures ; and ( 3 ) most febrile children with otitis media do well . the clinician must therefore weigh the potential benefit of drawing a blood culture to identify children at risk for complications against the inherent cost , inconvenience , and discomfort . 
risk of respiratory illness associated with day-care attendance : a nationwide study . the risk of respiratory and other illnesses in children ( age groups : 6 weeks through 17 months , 18 through 35 months , and 36 through 59 months ) in various types of day-care facilities was studied . children considered exposed to day care were those who were enrolled in day care with at least one unrelated child for at least 10 hours per week in each of the 4 weeks before the interview ; unexposed children were not enrolled in any regular child care with unrelated children and did not have siblings younger than 5 years of age receiving regular care with unrelated children . although an increased risk of respiratory illness was associated with attending day care for children in all three age groups , this risk was statistically significant only for children 6 weeks through 17 months of age ( odds ratio = 1.6 ; 95 % confidence interval = 1.1 to 2.4 ) and children 18 through 35 months of age who had no older siblings ( odds ratio = 3.4 ; 95 % confidence interval = 2.0 to 6.0 ) . in contrast , day-care attendance was not associated with an increased risk of respiratory illness in children 18 through 35 months of age with older siblings ( odds ratio = 1.0 ) . for children aged 6 weeks through 17 months , the exposure to older siblings was associated with an increased risk of respiratory illness ; however , for children aged 36 through 59 months , older siblings were protective against respiratory illness . in addition , for the children in each age group currently in day care , increased duration of past exposure to day care was associated with a decreased risk of respiratory illness . 
pediatric emergency room visits : a risk factor for acquiring measles . in recent years , measles outbreaks have occurred among unimmunized children in inner cities in the united states . from may 1988 through june 1989 , 1214 measles cases were reported in los angeles , and from october 1988 through june 1989 , 1730 cases were reported in houston . more than half of cases were in children younger than 5 years of age , most of whom were unvaccinated . of cases of measles in preschool-aged children , nearly one fourth in los angeles and more than one third in houston were reported by one inner-city emergency room . to evaluate whether emergency room visits were a risk factor for acquiring measles , in los angeles , 35 measles patients and 109 control patients with illnesses other than measles , and in houston , 49 measles patients and 128 control patients , who visited these emergency rooms , were enrolled in case-control studies . control patients were matched to case patients for ethnicity , age , and week of visit . records were reviewed to determine whether case patients had visited the emergency room during the period of potential measles exposure , which was defined as 10 to 18 days before rash onset , and whether control patients had visited 10 to 18 days before their enrollment visit . in los angeles , 23 % of case patients and 5 % of control patients ( odds ratio = 5.2 , 95 % confidence interval = 1.7 , 15.9 ; p less than .01 ) , and in houston , 41 % of case patients and 6 % of control patients ( odds ratio = 8.4 , 95 % confidence interval = 3.3 , 21.2 ; p less than .01 ) , visited the emergency room during these periods . 
pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia in patients undergoing liver transplantation : an emerging problem . in our institution , pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteremia appeared to occur with increasing frequency in patients undergoing liver transplantation . we thus conducted a prospective study to define risk factors and outcome in these patients . over a 19-month period 6 % of liver transplants were followed by pseudomonas bacteremia . the mean age was 46 years ( range , 24 to 67 years ) . the interval between transplantation and onset of bacteremia was 3 to 372 days ( mean , 80 ) . the incidence of pseudomonas bacteremia in liver transplants was three times that of other transplants ( heart , lung , kidney ) . ninety one percent of infections were nosocomial . polymicrobial bacteremia occurred in 30 % of episodes . the portal of entry was respiratory in 30 % , abdominal in 35 % , and biliary in 13 % . four patients had recurrent pseudomonas bacteremia : liver abscess ( 1 ) , biliary obstruction ( 2 ) , subhepatic abscess ( 1 ) . survival at 14 days was 70 % . survival rates were significantly lower for patients with hypotension , on mechanical ventilators , and increasing severity of illness ( p less than 0.05 ) . survival was higher when bacteremia occurred within the first 30 days after transplantation compared to after 30 days . a large number ( 43.4 % ) of pseudomonas bacteremias occurred after transplant surgery of biliary tract manipulation , while the patient was receiving a prophylactic regimen of cefotaxime and ampicillin . p. aeruginosa is an important pathogen in the liver transplant recipient ; prevention may be possible for a subgroup of patients with the use of prophylactic antibiotics with activity against p. aeruginosa . 
cerebellar syndrome caused by isoniazid . treatment of tuberculosis in a hemodialysis patient with isoniazid , rifampin , and pyrazinamide resulted in the development of acute cerebellar dysfunction . this resolved rapidly following the discontinuation of isoniazid and pyrazinamide , reinstitution of isoniazid at a lower dose , and addition of pyridoxine . we discuss why we believe this syndrome was caused by isoniazid . patients with renal failure who undergo antituberculous therapy with isoniazid should receive supplemental pyridoxine to reduce the likelihood of isoniazid-related neurotoxicity . 
griseofulvin : a new look at an old drug . griseofulvin is the oral antifungal agent of choice for the treatment of dermatophytoses . this article reviews the history , pharmacokinetics , adverse reactions , and traditional therapeutic applications of griseofulvin . in addition , reports since 1960 of the use of the drug in the treatment of raynaud 's phenomenon , progressive systemic sclerosis , lichen planus , mycosis fungoides , herpes zoster , eosinophilic fasciitis , and molluscum contagiosum are discussed , noting the varying degree of therapeutic success . 
fluconazole : a new triazole antifungal agent . fluconazole is a fluorine-substituted , bis-triazole antifungal agent . its mechanism of action , like that of other azoles , involves interruption of the conversion of lanosterol to ergosterol via binding to fungal cytochrome p-450 and subsequent disruption of fungal membranes . activity against aspergillus spp. , blastomyces dermatitidis , candida spp. , coccidioides immitis , cryptococcus neoformans , histoplasma capsulatum , and paracoccidioides brasiliensis has been demonstrated in several animal models . fluconazole can be administered both orally and intravenously . mean peak serum concentrations achieved in human volunteers after 50 and 100 mg ( oral ) are 3.1 and 7.0 mumols/l respectively . protein binding is low ( 11 percent ) and cerebrospinal fluid to serum ratio is 0.58 to 0.89 . serum half-life is long ( 22-32 hours ) and elimination is via renal clearance of unchanged drug . clinical trials and reports support the use of fluconazole in treatment of candidiasis , particularly oropharyngeal and esophageal infections in immunocompromised hosts . fluconazole is also approved for initial and suppressive therapy of cryptococcal meningitis . its role in management of systemic fungal infections will be further defined once results of other comparative trials become available . fluconazole is well tolerated and its effects on steroidogenesis are markedly less than those of ketoconazole . antipyrine clearance is not altered at low doses ( 50 mg ) of fluconazole ; however , drug interactions with the use of larger doses can be anticipated with agents such as cyclosporin , phenytoin , oral hypoglycemics , and warfarin . rifampin appears to decrease metabolic clearance of fluconazole . fluconazole is available as oral and parenteral formulations . once-daily doses of 100-400 mg are recommended . dosage reduction is advised for patients with impaired renal function . 
acute phase reactants and risk of bacterial meningitis among febrile infants and children . study objective : to test the hypothesis that quantitation of either c-reactive protein ( crp ) or the total peripheral wbc count can improve clinical detection of underlying bacterial meningitis among young febrile children . design : cross-sectional survey of selected symptoms of central nervous system infection , signs of meningeal irritation and/or elevated intracranial pressure , levels of crp in serum , and total peripheral wbc counts among unselected pediatric patients undergoing lumbar punctures for evaluation of acute febrile illnesses . setting : emergency department and acute care " walk-in " clinic of an urban , university-affiliated general hospital . participants : 160 previously well , acutely febrile infants and children ( median age , 6 months ) . results : the prevalence of bacterial meningitis was 6 % . sensitivity of symptoms was 1.00 and specificity was 0.17 . sensitivity of signs was 0.70 and specificity was 0.81 . of the acute phase reactants , sensitivity of a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl was 0.80 , while that of a total peripheral wbc count of more than 15,000 / mm3 was 0.40 . the presence of signs and/or a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all children with bacterial meningitis ( sensitivity , 1.00 ) . the absence of signs and a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 71 of 150 children without bacterial meningitis ( specificity , 0.47 ) . of 125 children without meningeal signs , the combination of symptoms and a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all three children with bacterial meningitis ( sensitivity , 1.00 ) . the absence of these symptoms and/or a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 80 of 122 children without bacterial meningitis ( specificity , 0.66 ) . conclusion : quantitation of crp but not the total peripheral wbc count can increase the sensitivity of physical examination findings and the specificity of symptoms for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis . measurement of crp in serum is useful as an adjunct to history and physical examination for the detection of acute bacterial meningitis in the acutely febrile child . 
transmission of ' toxic strep ' syndrome from an infected child to a firefighter during cpr . several cases of a toxic shocklike syndrome have been reported in the united states during the past five years in association with streptococcus pyogenes infection . we report a case of a firefighter exposed during attempted cpr to the secretions of an s pyogenes-infected child . the firefighter developed an infection of the hand and subsequent febrile illness with hypotension , erythematous rash , renal failure , and hypocalcemia . bacterial isolates of blood and cerebrospinal fluid from the deceased child were identical in type and exotoxin production with isolates grown from the hand wound of the firefighter . this is the first reported case of documented transmission of s pyogenes , causing a toxic shocklike syndrome in an emergency medical technician . 
fatal capnocytophaga canimorsus septicemia in a previously healthy woman . a previously healthy 47-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with septic shock five days after a small dog bite on the dorsum of her hand . capnocytophaga canimorsus was isolated from blood cultures . despite intensive therapy , multiple organ failure developed , and the patient died 27 days after admission . characteristics of capnocytophaga ( formerly cdc group dysgonic fermenter-2 ) infection are briefly discussed . this unusual outcome in a previously healthy patient and the need for careful management of dog bite wounds , even if initially very small , is emphasized . 
yersinia enterocolitica in the synovial membrane of patients with yersinia-induced arthritis . using a monospecific rabbit antibody against yersinia enterocolitica outer membrane protein 1 , we examined synovial biopsy specimens from 7 patients with yersinia-induced arthritis . yersinia were demonstrated in the synovial membrane by indirect immunofluorescence in 4 patients with yersinia-induced arthritis , but not in 6 control patients with salmonella-induced arthritis or with rheumatoid arthritis . these findings suggest the persistence of yersinia in the joints of patients with yersinia-induced arthritis . 
double-blind , placebo-controlled study of three-month treatment with lymecycline in reactive arthritis , with special reference to chlamydia arthritis . we conducted a double-blind , placebo-controlled , randomized study of 3-month treatment with lymecycline , a form of tetracycline , in reactive arthritis ( rea ) . lymecycline therapy significantly decreased the duration of the illness in patients with chlamydia trachomatis-triggered rea , but not in other rea patients . in 2 rea patients , c trachomatis was found in the throat , an uncommon locale for this organism . our results suggest that it is important to verify the triggering microbe and that it is beneficial to treat chlamydia arthritis patients with a prolonged course of tetracycline . 
application of the polymerase chain reaction and immunofluorescence techniques to the detection of bacteria in yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis . leukocytes in synovial fluid and peripheral blood samples from patients with yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis were analyzed after dna amplification using the polymerase chain reaction . the primers applied were specific for the virulence plasmid-coded 1cre genes of yersinia enterocolitica o :3 and yersinia pseudotuberculosis iii . no yersinia dna was observed within the synovial fluid cells or peripheral blood cells by polymerase chain reaction techniques . however , yersinia antigens were detected in the synovial fluid cells by immunofluorescence techniques . these results suggest that only parts of the causative agents , not the entire microbe , can enter the joint and initiate the inflammation that leads to a reactive arthritis . 
human cytomegalovirus viraemia in hiv-1-seropositive patients at various clinical stages of infection . eighty-two hiv-1-seropositive subjects were examined for the presence and quantification of human cytomegalovirus ( hcmv ) in peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmnl ) by polymerase chain reaction , culture and immunofluorescence in order to investigate the relationship between viraemia and immunosuppression . patients were divided into three groups : ( 1 ) asymptomatic subjects with greater than 400 x 10 ( 6 ) / l cd4 lymphocytes ( n = 30 ) ; ( 2 ) asymptomatic subjects with less than 400 x 10 ( 6 ) / l of cd4 lymphocytes and zidovudine ( n = 20 ) , and ( 3 ) aids-related complex ( arc ) / aids patients on zidovudine ( n = 32 ) . evidence of hcmv infection in circulating pmnl was found in 15 out of 29 arc/aids patients examined ( 51.7 % ) , whereas no infection was detected among the 50 asymptomatic hiv-1-seropositive subjects . hcmv-related symptoms were found only where the number of infected pmnl was greater than 50 per 2 x 10 ( 5 ) cells . 
extrapulmonary and disseminated tuberculosis in hiv-1-seropositive patients presenting to the acute medical services in nairobi . we studied 506 consecutive adult acute medical admissions to hospital in nairobi ; 95 ( 18.8 % ) were seropositive for hiv-1 , and 43 new cases of active tuberculosis ( tb ) were identified . tb was clearly associated with hiv infection , occurring in 17.9 % of seropositive patients compared with 6.3 % of seronegatives [ odds ratio ( or ) 3.2 ; 95 % confidence limits ( cl ) 1.6-6 .5 ] . extrapulmonary disease was more common in seropositive than seronegative tb patients ( nine out of 17 versus five out of 26 ; or 4.7 ; 95 % cl 1.01-23 .6 ) ; this accounted for most of the excess cases of tb seen in seropositive patients . mycobacteraemia was demonstrated in two of eight seropositive tb patients but in none of 11 seronegative tb patients . no atypical mycobacteria were isolated . the world health organization ( who ) clinical case definition for african aids did not discriminate well between seropositive and seronegative tb cases . five out of seven seropositive women with active tuberculosis had delivered children in the preceding 6 months and were lactating , compared with only one out of eight seronegative tuberculous women . an association between recent childbirth , hiv immunosuppression and the development of tb is suggested . 
hiv-1 and pregnant women : associated factors , prevalence , estimate of incidence and role in fetal wastage in central africa . the major goals of this study were to measure the current prevalence and estimate the annual incidence of hiv-1 infection in young pregnant women from urban malawi , to identify factors that were associated with hiv-1 infection , and to examine adverse pregnancy outcomes . four hundred and sixty-one consecutive pregnant women were studied when they presented for prenatal care . the overall seroprevalence for hiv-1 infection in these urban populations was 17.6 % ( 81 out of 461 ) during early 1989 . based on previous seroprevalence in similar unselected pregnant women , the estimated annual incidence of hiv-1 seroconversion in urban pregnant women ranged from 3 to 4 % per annum between 1985 and 1987 and from 7 to 13 % between 1987 and 1989 . hiv-1 infection was significantly associated with reactive syphilis serology . reported history of sexually transmitted disease was also correlated with hiv-1 infection but was not statistically significant . other variables , such as history of transfusion , history of tuberculosis , parity or occupation were not associated with hiv-1 infection . history of spontaneous abortion was significantly associated with reactive syphilis serology , hiv-1 infection and history of sexually transmitted disease . in logistic regression analysis , hiv-1 infection remained the only significant variable that was correlated with spontaneous abortion . this study suggests that hiv-1 infection may play a role in fetal wastage . 
audit of major colorectal and biliary surgery to reduce rates of wound infection . objective -- to reduce the rates of wound infection for major colorectal and biliary surgery . design -- prospective audit of antibiotic prophylaxis by keeping copies of typed notes of operations and annotating them at discharge and at first follow up visit and annual review of prophylactic regimen according to yearly rate of wound infection and modification if necessary . setting -- the work of one consultant surgeon working in a district general hospital . patients -- all patients having major colorectal resection during 1976-89 ( 400 ) and cholecystectomy during 1981-9 ( 500 ) . main outcome measures -- wound infection , defined as any discharge from the wound as detected by observation during inpatient stay and by specific questioning at the first follow up visit six weeks later . results -- serial changes in prophylaxis for colorectal surgery resulted in a progressive reduction in the rate of wound infection from 43 % in 1976 , with no prophylaxis , to 1 % during 1986-9 with single intravenous doses of metronidazole and cefuroxime intraoperatively and with lavage of the peritoneal cavity and wound with 0.1 % tetracycline . during 1981-7 , with no prophylaxis , the rate of infection in biliary surgery was 12 % whereas in 1988-9 , after the introduction of lavage with tetracycline alone , the rate was reduced to 2 % . implications and action -- simple prospective audit identified the need for changes in antibiotic prophylaxis ; successive rounds of audit resulted in improved rates of wound infection , and lavage with 0.1 % tetracycline seemed to be a major factor in achieving this . 
adenine nucleotide changes in kidney , liver , and small intestine during different forms of ischemic injury . the purpose of this study was to better characterize renal adenine nucleotide pool responses to different forms of shock , contrast the changes to those found in other intra-abdominal organs ( the liver and small intestine ) , and assess whether these changes are closely mimicked by those produced by renal arterial occlusion , the usual method used to study ischemic acute renal failure . rats were subjected to hemorrhagic shock , septic shock , or cardiopulmonary shock of varying severities and durations . the liver consistently had the greatest energy depletion , followed by the kidney , and then the small intestine . however , only the kidney developed clear morphological damage ( s3 brush border sloughing ) . kidney adenylate pools were better preserved during septic shock and cardiopulmonary shock than during hemorrhagic shock despite comparable blood pressures . only profound hemorrhagic shock ( 35-40 mm hg for 25 minutes ) decreased total adenylate pools ( atp + adp + amp ) . however , the degree of renal catabolite ( nucleosides plus purine base ) accumulation did not correlate with the amount of renal total adenine nucleotide depletion , partially because circulating catabolites contributed to intrarenal catabolite pools . purine base/uric acid ratios differed among shocked organs , consistent with different degrees of xanthine oxidase activity ( small intestine greater than liver greater than kidney ) . renal morphological damage decreased during the immediate ( 0-30 minutes ) postshock period , and the extent of this improvement was not altered by xanthine oxidase inhibition ( oxypurinol ) , suggesting that the immediate postshock period is not one of serious oxidative injury . shock , in comparison with renal arterial occlusion , caused only modest atp loss/catabolite accumulation , very low purine base/uric acid ratios , and no immediate-reperfusion ( 0-30 minutes ) resynthesis of the total adenylate pool . thus , ischemia-induced renal adenylate changes may differ considerably , depending on the nature of the ischemic event . 
behavior of the pulmonary circulation at rest and during exercise in miliary tuberculosis . we studied the hemodynamic behavior of the pulmonary circulation at rest and during exercise in six patients with mtb . as a group , in contrast to advanced fibrocaseous tuberculosis , these patients exhibited normal pulmonary hemodynamics at rest and during exercise . only minor abnormalities in pulmonary vascular resistance at exercise ( increased pad-pwp gradient ) were noted in two of the patients . the increase in rp during exercise does not appear to be related to acute hypoxic vasoconstruction but rather to functional changes ( compliance or recruitment or both ) of the pulmonary microvasculature . in the genesis of these functional changes , chronic alveolar hypoxia and the inflammatory-fibrotic process might be interacting . 
endotoxemia in human septic shock . to evaluate the incidence , pattern and clinical importance of endotoxemia in septic shock , frequent , serial endotoxin determinations were made prospectively in patients with shock . detectable endotoxin occurred in 43 of 100 patients with septic shock , but in only one of ten patients with shock due to nonseptic causes . during septic shock , endotoxemia frequently occurred in the absence of gram-negative bacteremia . using a logistic regression model , multiple organ failure occurred 10.3 times more frequently and depression of left ventricular ejection fraction ( less than or equal to 45 percent ) 4.8 times more frequently in endotoxemic patients . in patients with positive blood cultures , endotoxemia was associated with a high mortality . we conclude that endotoxemia occurs frequently in septic shock and is associated with severe manifestations of this syndrome , including cardiac depression and multiple organ failure . this study suggests that endotoxin is an important mediator of septic shock and supports efforts to develop anti-endotoxin therapies for treating patients with this disease . 
peripheral nerve function in sepsis and multiple organ failure forty-three patients who had sepsis and multiple organ failure ( critical illness ) were studied prospectively to determine the incidence and severity of peripheral nerve function and to correlate such function with a number of variables . electrophysiologic studies indicated a primary axonal degeneration of motor and sensory fibers in 30 ( 70 percent ) . fifteen ( 30 percent ) had the clinical signs of difficulty in weaning from assisted ventilation , weakness of limb muscles , and reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes . full recovery from the polyneuropathy occurred among the 23 ( 53 percent ) who survived , except three who had a very severe polyneuropathy . a peripheral nerve function index , computed from electrophysiologic measurements , showed statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) negative correlations with the time in the critical care unit , and the serum glucose value ; the serum albumin level showed a positive correlation . multiple regression analyses indicated all three factors accounted for 47 percent ( r2 = 0.4678 ) of all potential variables . in a separate analysis , the nerve function index correlated with the amplitude of the diaphragm compound muscle action potential ( p less than 0.01 ) . the results were consistent with the polyneuropathy being due to the same mechanisms that are currently postulated to cause dysfunction in this syndrome of other organ systems ( including the neuromuscular respiratory system ) . 
rabbit skeletal muscle po2 during hypodynamic sepsis . we measured skeletal muscle tissue po2 ( pto2 ) in anesthetized rabbits ( n = 7 ) following infusion of an intravenous bolus of e coli endotoxin . an array of surface po2 microelectrodes was placed over the hindlimb biceps femoris muscle and sufficient readings were obtained to construct a pto2 histogram . changes in the histogram standard deviation were used to characterize micro-circulatory maldistribution . systemic o2 consumption ( vo2 ) was measured by the expired gas method . cardiac output ( q ) and systemic o2 transport ( to2 ) were calculated . samples of arterial , right atrial ( ra ) , and hindlimb venous blood , from a catheter placed in the infrarenal portion of the vena cava , were simultaneously obtained for measurement of blood gases and saturations . following the administration of endotoxin , there were decreases in q and to2 of approximately 50 percent . the vo2 initially decreased 23 percent , but returned to baseline levels 30 minutes after endotoxin administration . systemic o2 extraction ratio ( ero2 = vo2/to2 ) increased from 0.32 + / - .03 to 0.54 + / - .07 ( p less than 0.01 ) , whereas hindlimb ero2 increased from 0.42 + / - .03 to 0.60 + / - .02 ( p less than 0.01 ) . the arithmetic mean of the pto2 histograms decreased after endotoxin infusion ( 43 + / - 4 to 7 + / - 2 mm hg ; p less than 0.01 ) , but plo2 remained at baseline levels ( 35 + / - 2 vs. 33 + / - 2 mm hg ; p = ns ) . the standard deviation of the pto2 histograms remained constant during the experiment . this finding supports the notion that skeletal muscle microcirculatory heterogeneity does not increase during endotoxin induced hypodynamic sepsis . 
nonsurgical treatment of histoplasma endocarditis involving a bioprosthetic valve . endocardial involvement associated with disseminated histoplasmosis has been infrequently documented , especially among patients with prosthetic valves . the therapeutic approach to these patients is also not yet clearly defined . a 54-year-old man with prosthetic valve endocarditis due to histoplasmosis was successfully treated with amphotericin b. a review of the literature suggests that the optimal form of therapy is likely a combination of surgical replacement of the involved valve and high dose amphotericin b. successful therapy with amphotericin b alone may , however , be achieved if surgery is not a viable option . 
the diagnostic utility of the antibody-coated bacteria test in intubated patients . purpose : pilot study to determine if the presence of antibody-coated bacteria ( acb ) in sputum specimens obtained from endotracheal tube suctioning would aid in the diagnosis of lower respiratory tract infection ( lrti ) . patients and methods : all endotracheally intubated and mechanically ventilated patients for a two-month period were recruited for study . the diagnosis of lrti was based on a clinical suspicion sufficient enough to start or change antibiotic therapy . specimens were obtained by blind endotracheal tube suctioning . after processing , sputum smears were stained with fluorescein-labelled antibody to the fc portion of igg , igm , and iga . more than five fluorescein-labelled bacteria per oil immersion field were considered positive smears . results : seventy-one specimens were obtained from 36 patients . eighteen specimens were positive in 12 patients , all of whom had lrti . no specimen was positive in patients not diagnosed as having lrti . the acb test was positive in 12 of 25 patients with lrti . patients with lrti but negative acb were more likely to have received prior antibiotic therapy ( p less than 0.001 ) . acb was positive prior to the clinical diagnosis of lrti in seven of nine patients ( av 4.1 days , range 2-6 days ) and converted to negative in three specimens obtained seven or more days after starting appropriate antibiotics , while in three specimens it remained positive three-six days post treatment initiation . conclusions : the acb test appears to be highly specific for the presence of lrti in intubated patients . sensitivity of the test may be adversely affected by prior antibiotic therapy . a positive acb test may predict the subsequent development of lrti . further study is warranted . 
diagnosis of campylobacter pylori gastritis . campylobacter pylori is a bacterium that inhabits gastric mucosa . it causes chronic active gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal ulcer . campylobacter pylori has a urease enzyme ( not present in man ) , which allows diagnosis by a [ 14c ] urea breath test . we compared two noninvasive tests , the breath test and serum elisa , to biopsy and histologic diagnosis . twenty-two patients who underwent gastroduodenoscopy for evaluation of possible peptic ulcer disease entered the study . the breath test detected the organism in eight of eight patients biopsy-positive for the organism ( sensitivity 100 % ) . the breath test was negative in 12 of the 14 patients who were biopsy-negative ( specificity 86 % ) . the elisa was performed in 14 patients . it was positive in 5 of 5 patients biopsy-positive for the organism ( sensitivity 100 % ) and negative in 7 of 9 patients who were biopsy-negative ( specificity 78 % ) . we conclude that both the elisa and the [ 14c ] urea breath test are excellent noninvasive methods to detect campylobacter pylori . however , only the breath test is suitable for following the response to treatment , as it detects the presence of the organism rather than an immune response to it . 
zollinger-ellison syndrome . relation to helicobacter pylori-associated chronic gastritis and gastric acid secretion . since helicobacter pylori infects the gastric mucosa in most patients with chronic duodenal ulcer , infection with this organism has been implicated in the pathogenesis of this common disease . we postulated that if h. pylori is pathogenic in the usual type of duodenal ulcer , it should be less common when duodenal ulcer has another , specific etiology , such as zollinger-ellison syndrome . gastric mucosa was compared from 18 patients with proven zollinger-ellison syndrome ( 17 of whom had had duodenal ulcer disease ) and 18 controls with chronic duodenal ulcer without such a diagnosis . all subjects , who were matched for age and sex , had undergone elective gastric resections . gastric tissues were stained by hematoxylin-eosin and giemsa and were reviewed by an experienced pathologist who was unaware of the diagnosis . the frequency of h. pylori in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ( 8/18 ) was lower than in controls with duodenal ulcer ( 16/18 ; p less than 0.02 ) . moreover , chronic antral gastritis scores were higher in patients with duodenal ulcer ( p less than 0.01 ) . in zollinger-ellison syndrome , peak acid output was lower in patients positive ( median 22 meq/30 min ) compared to those negative for h. pylori ( median 32 meq/30 min ; p less than 0.02 ) but serum gastrin was correspondingly lower in patients positive for h. pylori ( p less than 0.05 ) . h. pylori infection appears to be more frequent when duodenal ulceration is not associated with another etiology , such as acid hypersecretion in zollinger-ellison syndrome . h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome may also be associated with decreased gastric acid secretion . 
helicobacter pylori and zollinger-ellison syndrome . helicobacter pylori ( previously campylobacter pylori ) is almost invariably associated with chronic duodenal ulcer disease . the relationship between h. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer in zollinger-ellison syndrome is unknown . we investigated the frequency of h. pylori infection in zollinger-ellison syndrome and also what effect h. pylori infection had on gastric function in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome . h. pylori infection was diagnosed based on a specific serologic ( elisa ) assay based on high-molecular-weight cell-associated proteins of h. pylori . we studied 20 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ; 15 men and 5 women ranging in age from 24 to 71 years , median age 51 . six zollinger-ellison syndrome patients had h. pylori infection compared to 100 consecutive patients with chronic recurrent duodenal ulcer disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . pretreatment basal acid output in zollinger-ellison syndrome patients ranged from 7.9 to 95.0 mmol/hr , median 35.2 . pentagastrin-stimulated maximal acid output ranged from 8.5 to 132 mmol/hr ; median 52.7 . acid secretion was lower in the h. pylori-infected patients than the uninfected patients ( bao 24.5 + / - 6.5 vs 45.4 + / - 6.6 , and mao 44.3 + / - 11.8 vs 67.9 + / - 10.7 , for h. pylori infected vs uninfected patients , respectively ) . the difference in bao was statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . the present results indicate that h. pylori is not a major contributing factor in duodenal ulcer associated with zollinger-ellison syndrome . the association of a reduced bao with h. pylori suggests that these findings may be related . 
enhancement of antibiotic concentrations in gastric mucosa by h2-receptor antagonist . implications for treatment of helicobacter pylori infections . we measured the effects of cimetidine on antibiotic concentrations in the luminal portion of gastric mucosa . guinea pigs were premedicated with cimetidine 4 mg/kg intramuscularly . clindamycin , an antibiotic previously characterized under physiologic ph conditions , was administered intramuscularly and levels measured in serum and tissue using a high-pressure liquid chromatography ( hplc ) technique . the luminal mucosa concentration of clindamycin at 1 hr ( ph 5.9 ) was fivefold greater compared to the concentrations seen under physiologic ( ph 2.0 ) conditions ( 81.5 micrograms/g vs 15.9 micrograms/g ; p less than 0.05 ) and 10-fold greater at 2 hr ( 82.7 micrograms/g vs 8.09 micrograms/g ; p less than 0.05 ) . there was no difference in peak serum levels between the groups . the finding that an antibiotic with characteristics of a base is thus affected by a nonconservative acid inhibitor such as cimetidine supports the presence of an acidic storage pool as proposed by other investigators . h2-receptor antagonists may be useful therapeutic adjuncts in h. pylori infections by virtue of increasing gastric concentrations of antibiotics that behave as weak bases . 
helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output in peptic ulcer disease . helicobacter pylori is associated with peptic ulcer , and a causal relationship has been postulated . we investigated the association between helicobacter pylori and gastric acid output . two hundred forty-one patients were studied : 173 with duodenal ulcer , 51 with gastric ulcer ( 41 corpus , 10 prepyloric ) , and 17 with combined gastric and duodenal ulcer . in 194 patients ( 80 % ) , helicobacter pylori could be demonstrated histologically from gastric antral biopsies . the presence or absence of helicobacter pylori was not influenced by age , sex , or use of tobacco or analgesics . patients with duodenal ulcer or combined gastric and duodenal ulcer had similar gastric acid outputs irrespective of the presence or absence of helicobacter pylori . however , gastric ulcer patients with helicobacter had higher basal and maximal acid outputs when compared to patients without helicobacter ( mean basal output : 4.1 mmol/hr vs 2.4 , p less than 0.05 ; mean maximal output 19.5 mmol/hr vs. 14.4 , p less than 0.05 ) . although helicobacter pylori is associated with both gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer , its significance may be different in the two diseases . 
penetration of lanthanum through the main pancreatic duct epithelium in cats following exposure to infected human bile . the main pancreatic duct epithelium acts as a barrier to the diffusion of molecules from the duct lumen into pancreatic acinar and interstitial tissue . we studied sequential ultrastructural characteristics of the loss of epithelial barrier function in the cat using lanthanum , an electron-opaque tracer , following perfusion of the duct from the tail to the duodenum with infected human bile . tight junctions between duct epithelial cells were found to become permeable to the tracer as early as after 15 min of exposure . later , there was progressive disintegration of intercellular junctions and epithelial loss . lanthanum penetrated the duct epithelium exclusively on an intercellular path . loss of barrier function of the pancreatic duct epithelium was consistently associated with subsequent development of acute interstitial edematous pancreatitis . there was no association between the degree of duct epithelial damage and the severity of acute pancreatitis . both bile and a suspension of bacteria alone were not harmful to the pancreas . sequential perfusion produced acute pancreatitis only when at first bile and then the bacterial suspension was perfused . a reversed succession of perfusates produced no morphologic alterations . we conclude : ( 1 ) increased tight junction permeability is an early lesion in acute bile-induced pancreatitis : ( 2 ) loss of duct epithelial barrier function is important for the initiation but not for the severity of the inflammation ; and ( 3 ) bile renders duct epithelial intercellular junctions vulnerable to escherichia coli bacteria . 
a pilot study of the prevalence of herpes genitalis among selected groups of patients seeking care in a family practice center . herpes genitalis is typically studied in patient panels identified at specialized sexually transmitted disease clinics or with information obtained from herpes self-help groups . this article reports the results of a descriptive pilot study of the prevalence of herpes genitalis in family practice . the feasibility of obtaining psychosexual information on sexually transmitted diseases from more than 600 patients from five family practice practices was assessed . these initial data show that in the family practices participating in this study : 1 ) genital herpes is a low prevalence disease ; 2 ) psychosocial adjustment to the disease among infected persons is usually reported as good , apart from sexual effects ; and 3 ) close to 30 % of the study population reported having prior sexually transmitted diseases . problems involved in generalizing the results of this research and the limitations of conducting collaborative clinical research in family practice settings are reviewed . 
helicobacter pylori infection in pernicious anemia : a prospective controlled study . although some authors believe that helicobacter pylori is the etiologic agent in chronic nonspecific gastritis , it has also been suggested that the bacterium colonizes inflamed mucosa as a secondary event . this study documents the prevalence of h. pylori in 28 patients with pernicious anemia and compares the findings with those of a group of 28 age - , race - , and sex-matched asymptomatic control subjects . all subjects underwent endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric antrum and corpus . a sample of serum was obtained before endoscopy for determination of antibodies ( immunoglobulin a and immunoglobulin g ) to h. pylori . the prevalence of h. pylori ( by biopsy ) in patients with pernicious anemia was significantly less than that in controls ( 11 % vs. 71 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . all patients with pernicious anemia had abnormalities of corpus histology ( inflammation and/or atrophy ) . in addition , 50 % of patients with pernicious anemia had a lymphocytic infiltration of the antrum . all controls with h. pylori had gastritis , 50 % having active chronic gastritis . atrophic changes of the corpus were more commonly found in patients with pernicious anemia ( 75 % vs. 7 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . serology and biopsy results correlated poorly in the patients with pernicious anemia : all 5 patients with positive serology results had negative biopsy results , whereas all 3 patients with positive cultures on biopsy had negative serological studies . in conclusion , patients with pernicious anemia are protected from infection with h. pylori , and h. pylori does not passively colonize mucosa inflamed by an unrelated process . 
selective intestinal decontamination prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . in a prospective randomized study , selective intestinal decontamination with norfloxacin was performed during hospitalization in 32 cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels . the incidence of infections was compared with that in a control group of 31 nontreated cirrhotic patients of similar characteristics . we found a significantly lower incidence of infections [ 1/32 ( 3.1 % ) vs. 13/31 ( 41.9 % ) ; p less than 0.005 ] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [ 0/32 ( 0 % ) vs. 7/31 ( 22.5 % ) ; p less than 0.05 ] in patients receiving norfloxacin . the lower incidence of extraperitoneal infections [ 1/32 ( 3.1 % ) vs. 7/31 ( 22.5 % ) ; p = 0.052 ] in the treated group did not reach statistical significance . the incidence of infections [ 1/28 ( 3.6 % ) vs. 9/22 ( 40.9 % ) ; p less than 0.01 ] and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis [ 0/28 ( 0 % ) vs. 5/22 ( 22.7 % ) ; p less than 0.05 ] in cirrhotic patients admitted because of ascites was also significantly lower in the treated group . the decrease in the rate of mortality observed in the group undergoing selective intestinal decontamination did not reach statistical significance . these data show that selective intestinal decontamination is useful to prevent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and extraperitoneal infections in hospitalized cirrhotic patients with low ascitic fluid total protein levels . 
a rodent model of cirrhosis , ascites , and bacterial peritonitis . we sought to develop a rodent model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and report here the preliminary results of carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis in which ascites and bacterial peritonitis predictably develop . of 41 rats that survived the initial carbon tetrachloride toxicity , 38 ( 92.7 % ) developed cirrhosis with ascites . of these 38 , 21 ( 55.3 % ) developed 24 episodes of ascitic fluid infection without iatrogenic colonization . no surgically treatable source of infection was identified at autopsy in any rat ; therefore , the infections were presumed to be " spontaneous . " eight ( 50 % ) of the 16 rats with culture-positive ascitic fluid at postmortem examination also had spontaneous pleural fluid infection with the same organism . escherichia coli and proteus sp . were the organisms most commonly isolated . this rodent model of cirrhosis with ascites appears to be the first high-yield animal model of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . ascitic fluid infection in these rats resembles ascitic fluid infection in humans . this model will allow further investigation of the mechanisms of pathogenesis of ascitic fluid infection and provide insight into the prevention and treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and pleural fluid infection in patients with cirrhosis . 
hepatic injury associated with small bowel bacterial overgrowth in rats is prevented by metronidazole and tetracycline . susceptible rat strains develop hepatobiliary injury following the surgical creation of self-filling blind loops that cause small bowel bacterial overgrowth . luminal bacteria or their cell wall polymers were implicated in the pathogenesis of the lesions because sham-operated rats and rats with self-emptying blind loops , having only slightly increased bacterial counts , did not develop hepatic injury . in this study , antibiotics with different spectra of activities were continuously administered starting 1 day or 22 days after surgery to determine which intestinal flora may be responsible for the development of hepatic injury in rats with small bowel bacterial overgrowth . four weeks following surgery , lewis rats with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics had elevated liver histology scores ( 8.2 + / - 1.3 vs. 0.7 + / - 0.4 ) and plasma aspartate aminotransferase levels ( 269 + / - 171 vs. 84 + / - 24 ) compared with sham-operated rats , p less than 0.001 . oral gentamicin as well as oral and intraperitoneal polymyxin b , which binds endotoxin , did not prevent hepatic injury in rats with self-filling blind loops . however , oral metronidazole and tetracycline therapy continuously administered beginning 1 day after surgery diminished hepatic injury ( histology score 3.0 + / - 1.8 , 2.9 + / - 1.1 ; aspartate aminotransferase 87 + / - 25 , 98 + / - 34 ; respectively p less than 0.001 compared with self-filling blind loops receiving no antibiotics ) . metronidazole also protected wistar rats that require 12 weeks to develop hepatic injury following experimentally induced small bowel bacterial overgrowth compared with rats with self-filling blind loops that received no antibiotic treatment ( histology score 10.4 + / - 1.3 vs. 0.7 + / - 1.1 , and aspartate aminotransferase 273 + / - 239 vs. 76 + / - 20 , p less than 0.001 ) . when rats started metronidazole therapy 22 days after self-filling blind loop surgery , elevated aspartate aminotransferase values decreased to normal during the next 77 days and final histology scores were normal . all rats with self-filling blind loops had negative peritoneal , liver , spleen , and blood cultures but approximately 75 % of mesenteric lymph node cultures were positive irrespective of antibiotic treatment . because bacteroides species have been implicated in causing vitamin b12 and disaccharidase deficiencies in rats with self-filling blind loops , we documented the presence or absence of these organisms from blind loops using selective culture techniques . metronidazole and tetracycline eliminated bacteroides sp . from blind loops , but polymyxin b and gentamicin did not . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
managing prostatitis in the elderly . bacterial prostatitis is primarily a disease of elderly men , and it is the most common urinary tract infection seen in this age group . urosepsis from prostatitis or prostatic abscess occurs less frequently than with urological manipulation , but must always be considered in elderly men with prostatitis . this article focuses on the diagnosis and antibiotic treatment of bacterial prostatitis in the elderly . 
large diameter expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts for infrarenal aortic aneurysm surgery . the performance of an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( eptfe ) graft used for aortic aneurysm replacement was evaluated . eptfe grafts were implanted in 241 patients undergoing infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm ( aaa ) repair . sixty patients were operated as emergencies for aneurysm rupture and 181 electively . one hundred and fourteen bifurcated and 127 tube grafts were inserted . the transperitoneal approach was used in 64 cases and the remainder were placed using a retroperitoneal approach . there was a one-month mortality of 2.8 % in elective and 20 % in emergency cases . median follow-up was 26 months . specific graft complications included one infected graft resulting in a graft-enteric fistula . no graft rupture , degeneration , dilatation , pseudoaneurysm or late graft limb thromboses were observed in up to 7 years of follow-up . the aortic eptfe prosthesis demonstrated satisfactory performance over the period studied . 
campylobacter fetus infection of abdominal aortic aneurysm . a 61-year-old man with campylobacter fetus infection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm treated surgically is presented herein , the fifth survival case reported in the literature . fever and back pain preceded the enlargement of atherosclerotic abdominal aortic aneurysm . the patient tolerated satisfactorily total excision of the aneurysm followed by axillo-femoral prosthetic bypass . antibiotic therapy consisted of intravenous infusion of fosfomycin and gentamicin and oral administration of minocycline . the organism cultured from the aneurysmal wall and intraluminal thrombi was identified as campylobacter fetus from its typical characteristics . it is concluded that this organism should be considered in all cases of infected aneurysm in elderly or debilitated patients . 
wound infection following early repeat sternotomy for postoperative bleeding . an experience utilizing intraoperative irrigation with povidone iodine . a prospective observational study of median sternotomy wound infection was carried out in two consecutive groups of unselected patients undergoing early repeat sternotomy for postoperative haemorrhage . in group a the pericardial cavity and sternotomy wound layers were irrigated with aqueous povidone iodine prior to repeat closure , while group b did not receive povidone iodine . no median sternotomy infections were recorded in group a compared to 5 cases in group b ( 0 out of 22 vs 5 out of 21 patients , p less than 0.05 ) . amongst the patients with wound infection , three developed sternal dehiscence and mediastinitis with one death . the data suggests that povidone iodine irrigation may be effective in reducing wound infection in patients undergoing early repeat sternotomy after cardiac surgery . 
infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm in a 25-month-old child . infective endocarditis in young children is uncommon , especially where there is no underlying structural heart disease . while septic embolization in adults occurs in up to 43 % of the cases of endocarditis , there is little data on systemic embolization in cases of children . we present an unusual case of a 25-month-old child with infective endocarditis and an embolomycotic aneurysm treated by mitral valve replacement and aortoiliac reconstruction . 
antibody coated bacteria in urine of patients with recent spinal injury . twenty patients with an acute spinal injury were prospectively studied to assess the clinical importance of antibody coated bacteria ( acb ) in the urine and the association among the different bacterial species with a positive antibody coated bacteria test . clinical urinary tract infection was associated with a positive acb test on 45 % of occasions . three hundred and ninety nine urine samples containing 541 bacterial isolates were assessed for the presence of acb ; 13 % were found to be positive and 87 % negative for acb ; 67 % of urines contained a single bacterial isolate . pseudomonas aeruginosa was most commonly associated with clinical urinary tract infection , found in 25 % of episodes , followed by proteus mirabilis ( 17.5 % ) , klebsiella sp ( 12.5 % ) , and proteus morganii ( 10 % ) . providencia stuartii , however , was most commonly associated with a positive acb test ( found in 17 % ) . other bacteria associated with a positive acb test included klebsiella sp ( 14 % ) , acinetobacter sp ( 12.5 % ) , pseudomonas aeruginosa ( 12 % ) , citrobacter sp ( 11.5 % ) . a positive acb test is not to be expected from a patient with spinal injury who has a catheter in place , and the test may provide a useful guide to identify those patients with an invasive infection . it is doubtful that a decision to treat or not treat bacteriuria could rest on the identification of the bacterial species alone . 
computer-generated physician and patient reminders . tools to improve population adherence to selected preventive services . despite an emerging consensus on appropriate preventive services , a minority of patients receive them . a study was undertaken to assess the impact of computer-generated reminders to adult patients , their physicians , or both patients and physicians on adherence to five recommended preventive services : cholesterol measurements , fecal occult blood testing , mammography , papanicolaou smears , and tetanus immunization . during the academic year 1988-1989 , all 7397 adult patients and their 49 physicians in a university family medicine clinical practice were randomized by practice group into one of four study groups : control , physician reminders , patient reminders , and both physician and patient reminders . adherence was defined in community-oriented terms : the percentage of patients within each group who had received the preventive service in the recommended interval . during the study period , adherence to four of the five preventive services increased significantly , with the largest increases in the physician and patient reminder group : cholesterol measurements increased from 19.5 % to 38.1 % , fecal occult blood testing 9.3 % to 27.0 % , mammography 11.4 % to 27.1 % , and tetanus immunization 23.4 % to 35.4 % ( for each increase , p less than .0001 , mcnemar 's chi-square test ) . in general , increases were greater in blacks and in patients with any form of insurance coverage . computer-based physician and patient reminder systems have great promise of improving adherence to preventive services in primary care settings . 
a phase ii clinical trial of carboplatin infusion in high-risk acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia . carboplatin ( cbdca ) is a second-generation platinum drug that has been shown to be useful when used as a continuous infusion in treatment of refractory adult leukemia . we report on the effectiveness of continuous infusion cbdca , 300 mg/m2/d x 5 days , as evaluated in nine patients with secondary acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) ( seven previous myelodysplastic syndrome and two treatment-associated anll ) , three anll patients in first relapse , six refractory anll , and nine patients with blastic phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia ( bp-cml ) . all patients were considered assessable . the response rate was 44 % ( eight complete remissions [ crs ] , four partial remissions [ prs ] ) . median duration of postchemotherapy neutropenia was 36 days ( range , 18 to 45 ) . therapy was well tolerated , and toxicity was mainly hematologic and nondose-limiting . despite prolonged neutropenia , severe infections were rarely seen , and most patients were managed as outpatients . twelve patients had nausea and vomiting , two had symptomatic hypomagnesemia , and one patient showed reversible ototoxicity . because of substantial antileukemic activity and unusual extrahematologic toxicity , cbdca appears to be an effective second-line agent in the treatment of anll and should be considered for upgrading to first-line treatment regimens . 
nosocomial pneumonia in adult patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation : a 9-year study . two hundred seventy-five consecutive patients treated with bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) during a 9-year interval were analyzed for the incidence and etiology of nosocomial pneumonia . cases included adults who acquired pneumonia during the first hospitalization period within 100 days of the transplant . fifty-five ( 20 % ) of the 275 patients developed nosocomial pneumonia , and the crude mortality during the hospitalization period was 74.5 % . an etiology was established in 67.3 % ( 37 of 55 ) of episodes . thirty-six percent ( 20 of 55 ) of the cases were caused by aspergillus species , either as the sole agent ( 15 patients ) or in association with others . the crude mortality for patients with aspergillus pneumonia was 95 % . elimination of 90 % of aspergillus cases in our unit would have the effect of reducing the overall attack rate of nosocomial pneumonia to 13.4 % and the associated crude mortality to 43.4 % . 
person-to-person transmission of brucella melitensis human brucellosis is primarily an occupational hazard in the usa ; in the middle east and africa ingestion of contaminated dairy products is an important route of infection . whether human beings can become infected via person-to-person spread is uncertain . during an investigation of a commonsource , laboratory-associated outbreak due to brucella melitensis , biotype 3 , the wife of a microbiologist with serologically proven brucellosis became infected . her blood isolate was indistinguishable from the epidemic strain . in the absence of other risk factors , we suggest that sexual intercourse is a possible means of transmission . 
nd : yag-laser in the microsurgery of frontobasal meningiomas . forty-three patients with big frontobasal meningiomas underwent a microsurgical removal of the tumor . the 1.32 microns nd : yag-laser has proved useful in this prospective series particularly with the contactless shrinkage of the tumors and the necrotization of the dural and bony attachments . tumor shrinkage was achieved by radiating the tumor surface with the nd : yag-laser . this technique facilitated the microsurgical dissection and reduced the blood loss by half . the nd : yag-laser necrotization of the dural and bony attachments reduced the recurrence rate following grade two resections from 20 % to zero . the postoperative quality of life was excellent with a complete rehabilitation in 76 % of the patients . the use of the 1.32 microns nd : yag-laser improved significantly the results of microsurgery for frontobasal meningioma . 
dexamethasone as an adjunct in oropharyngeal obstruction in a patient with leukemia . incipient airway obstruction due to fulminating bacterial infection of pharyngeal tissues requires prompt and definitive intervention . a case is presented in which dexamethasone was a key adjunct to antibiotic therapy in averting this problem in a severely neutropenic patient with acute leukemia . 
reactions of rat odontogenic tissues to heat . twenty-four wistar rats were anesthetized and 200 degrees c heat was applied for 4 minutes to each mandibular left first molar . eight of these rats were then killed at 2 , 8 , and 14 weeks . the subject and control teeth were radiographed and compared . they were then prepared for histologic evaluation and scored for levels of inflammation in both the pulpal and periradicular tissues . furcal , interproximal , and apical radiographic changes were found at all three time intervals . these changes involved progressively larger percentages of teeth at 8 and 14 weeks . histologically , complete necrosis and/or abscess formation were found in the coronal portions of all experimental pulps . with time , inflammatory changes increased in intensity and progressed through the radicular pulps , resulting in necrosis or calcific changes and , finally , inflammatory changes in the periradicular areas . the pathosis created by the application of heat was devoid of microorganisms as evaluated by the brown and brenn stain . 
short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis a prospective study , with an attempted 24-month-post-treatment follow-up , of children with tuberculosis ( tb ) treated with short course chemotherapy ( scc ) for 6 months was carried out because published experience of scc in childhood tb was limited . all children in port moresby diagnosed as having tb between november , 1984 , and november , 1986 , entered the trial . of the 639 children 165 ( 26 % ) were younger than 2 years old . of these , 227 ( 35 % ) had extrapulmonary tb ( peripheral lymph node , 110 ; central nervous system , 43 ; abdominal , 27 ; miliary , 16 ; bone and joint , 11 ; pleural , 11 ; polyserositis , 9 ) . clinical response to scc was rapid . adverse drug reactions occurred in 15 ( 2 % ) , mainly to streptomycin . twelve ( 2 % ) died , 38 ( 6 % ) transferred out and 145 ( 28 % of the 518 who did not die , transfer or live too far from a treatment centre ) defaulted . three hundred seventy-three ( 58 % ) completed a 2-month course of daily rifampin , isoniazid , pyrazinamide and streptomycin followed by a 4-month course of twice weekly rifampin and isoniazid . a further 71 ( 11 % ) had their treatment modified because of their distance from a treatment center . only 70 ( 19 % ) of the 373 children available for post-treatment follow-up attended the every-3-month follow-up visits for 24 months , although 223 ( 60 % ) attended one or more of the follow-up visits . seven of the 373 children relapsed , mostly within 3 months . five of these children had been irregular with their treatment . scc for childhood tb is safe and effective for pulmonary and extrapulmonary disease . 
a randomized trial of fully intermittent vs. daily followed by intermittent short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis fully intermittent short course chemotherapy regimens have been used successfully in adults but not in children . we report the results on 76 children with tuberculosis , excluding central nervous system tuberculosis and primary pulmonary complex . isoniazid , rifampin and pyrazinamide were used for treatment . they were randomly allocated to regimen a ( 52 doses ) and regimen b ( 94 doses ) . overall efficacy of both schedules was greater than 95 % in 27 children with lymphatic , 43 with pulmonary and 6 with disseminated tuberculosis . compliance in 10 children after 2 to 4 months of therapy was poor because rapid improvement was mistaken by parents for cure . two children died , probably of underlying lung disease . follow-up for up to 2 years did not reveal any case of relapse or recurrence of the disease . therapy for 6 months involving administration of only 52 or 94 doses of drugs was found to be economical , effective and safe for treating children with tuberculosis . 
cefotaxime and aminoglycoside treatment of meningitis caused by gram-negative enteric organisms . we reviewed cases of gram-negative enteric bacillary meningitis in infants and children treated with cefotaxime at texas children 's hospital from january , 1984 , through june , 1989 . seventeen of 20 children had an underlying condition predisposing to the development of meningitis . the etiologic organisms in these 20 children ( 2 days to 12 years old ; median , 12 days old ) were klebsiella sp , 9 ; escherichia coli , 4 ; enterobacter cloacae , 3 ; citrobacter diversus , 2 ; other , 2 . with the exception of one isolate of acinetobacter , all isolates were susceptible to cefotaxime . in addition to cefotaxime 17 children received an aminoglycoside intravenously . children with meningitis caused by klebsiella sp . or non-klebsiella organisms received cefotaxime for 31 + / - 14 and 37 + / - 17 days , respectively . aminoglycosides were administered for 16 + / - 10 days in both groups . five children in each group also received intraventricular doses ( 1 to 25 ) of an aminoglycoside ( 9 ) or colistimethate ( 1 ) . the mean durations of positive lumbar , ventricular cerebrospinal fluid or brain abscess cultures were 5.8 + / - 4.7 and 7.2 + / - 5.0 days after start of therapy in the klebsiella and non-klebsiella meningitis patients , respectively . only three children were normal at the time of discharge or follow-up . gram-negative enteric meningitis remains difficult to treat despite the excellent in vitro activity of cefotaxime against gram-negative enterics , in part as a result of the predisposing conditions resulting in the development of this infection . 
utility of collecting blood cultures through newly inserted intravenous catheters . we prospectively examined the utility of obtaining blood cultures through newly inserted intravenous catheters in 99 children who required both a blood culture and placement of an intravenous catheter . two blood cultures were collected from each patient , one through a freshly inserted intravenous catheter and another through a butterfly needle at a separate venipuncture site . a standardized technique of skin preparation with povidone-iodine was used . the rate of contamination was 1.0 % ( 95 % confidence intervals , 0 to 3.0 % ) for each method . ten patients had blood cultures yielding true pathogens ; in five of these bacteremic children , only one of two sets of blood cultures was positive . we conclude that blood cultures can be collected through freshly placed intravenous catheters without increasing the risk of contamination . these results also raise the possibility that obtaining two blood cultures instead of a single culture may improve the detection of bacteremia in children . 
a ten-year review of neonatal sepsis and comparison with the previous fifty-year experience . records have been kept prospectively in our institution since 1928 of all positive blood cultures taken from neonates . using a modification of objective centers for disease control criteria to define sepsis , we reviewed the records of all neonates with positive blood cultures for the years 1979 to 1988 inclusive and found 270 cases of sepsis . the sepsis rate for infants less than or equal to 30 days of age was 2.7 cases/1000 live births , with a mortality rate from sepsis of 15.9 % . there was an increase in sepsis due to commensal species ( cs ) over the period ( p less than 0.007 ) . the number of infants in the nursery who developed sepsis when more than 30 days of age also increased ( p less than 0.002 ) , as did the rate of sepsis from cs in this group ( p less than 0.001 ) . isolation of cs from the blood with fulfillment of the modified centers for disease control criteria was associated with a 13.7 % mortality rate , whereas isolation of cs without fulfillment was associated with a 4 % rate ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
management of asymptomatic , term gestation neonates born to mothers treated with intrapartum antibiotics . intrapartum antibiotics are frequently administered to parturient women for suspected chorioamnionitis to treat infection in the mother and to prevent or treat infection in the baby . we sent a questionnaire to the 150 united states fellowship program directors in neonatology and pediatric infectious disease , focusing on recommendations for evaluation and therapy of apparently healthy , pretreated , term gestation infants . eighty-three ( 55 % ) of the completed responses were analyzed . sixteen ( 19 % ) respondents do no initial laboratory evaluation but simply observe the baby , 65 ( 78 % ) take a complete blood count as well as a platelet count , 59 ( 71 % ) obtain blood cultures , 41 ( 49 % ) check urine antigen for group b streptococcus ( gbs ) and 23 ( 28 % ) perform a lumbar puncture . only 39 % of respondents would begin antibiotic therapy for all pretreated infants . if the evaluation were unremarkable 65 directors would treat for less than or equal to 3 days . if only the urine gbs antigen were positive 47 would treat for greater than or equal to 7 days , while if an elevated immature neutrophil : total neutrophil ratio were the sole abnormality 19 would treat for greater than or equal to 7 days . forty-four respondents thought that a combination of an elevated immature neutrophil : total neutrophil ratio and a positive urine gbs antigen should always be considered indicative of bacteremia . given a different scenario , that of a mother treated with intrapartum antibiotics because of a positive cervical culture for gbs and a risk factor ( e.g. temperature greater than or equal to 38 degrees c ) , 58 respondents would begin antibiotics . there is no consensus regarding management of pretreated , healthy appearing , term gestation neonates . 
syphilis . a new visit from an old enemy . syphilis has a number of stages , including a latent one , and may be overlooked or misdiagnosed if the possibility is not kept in mind . adequate treatment during the primary stage results in a very high cure rate . the latent stage may last for years , during which time a woman may still give birth to an infected child . symptomatic neurosyphilis occurs more often in men than women . penicillin g is preferred to treat all stages of the disease ; other antibiotics can be used for patients sensitive to penicillin . 
the butterfly rash and the malar flush . what diseases do these signs reflect ? the butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders . systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs . in pellagra , symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body . erysipelas produces brawny , fiery red facial lesions , and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption . lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern , and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face . carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration , and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction . deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation . 
the neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders . care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery . if the clinical picture can not logically be explained by the radiologic findings , further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder . investigations may include electrophysiologic tests , transcranial magnetic stimulation , cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) analysis , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined . 
lumbar puncture frequency and cerebrospinal fluid analysis in the neonate . a prospective study was performed to assess the frequency and diagnostic utility of lumbar punctures in neonates both during their first week of life and thereafter . during the two 6-month periods from january 1 , 1985 to june 30 , 1985 , and february 1 , 1986 to july 31 , 1986 , 712 neonates underwent 728 lumbar punctures during their first week of life primarily as part of the evaluation for suspected infection , either congenital or postnatal . there were eight patients with positive spinal fluid cultures in the first week of life , but only one patient simultaneously had a positive blood culture and a clinical course consistent with meningitis . in contrast , a considerably higher yield , approximating five times that of the first week of life , was obtained in patients undergoing a lumbar puncture after the first week of life . 
acute osteomyelitis in children . reassessment of etiologic agents and their clinical characteristics . one hundred thirty-five children with acute osteomyelitis were identified by chart review during a 7-year period , january 1 , 1980 , through december 31 , 1986 . bacteriologic causes were detected in 75 ( 55 % ) of the patients . staphylococcus aureus , haemophilus influenzae type b , and pseudomonas aeruginosa were identified in 34 ( 25 % ) , 16 ( 12 % ) , and eight ( 6 % ) children , respectively . staphylococcus aureus occurred in all age groups , h influenzae type b occurred only in children younger than 3 years and was the number one cause of disease in this group . pseudomonas aeruginosa occurred exclusively in children older than 9 years . children with h influenzae type b had clinical and laboratory findings that were almost indistinguishable from a matched group of children with osteomyelitis due to other known bacteria , although children with h influenzae type b tended to have more joint effusions ( 63 % vs 27 % ) , less lower extremity disease ( 22 % vs 70 % ) , and fewer positive cultures from bone or joint aspirates ( 41 % vs 89 % ) . unlike most pediatric cases of osteomyelitis , the ones due to p aeruginosa did not represent the hematogenous route of infection ; penetrating injury to the foot was present in every case . children with p aeruginosa infections were older than 9 years ( 100 % ) , predominantly male ( 88 % ) , often afebrile ( 83 % ) , and never bacteremic . these data provide guidelines for the initial work-up and management of osteomyelitis in children . 
pneumococcal osteomyelitis and arthritis in children . a hospital series and literature review . twenty-nine children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis , 11 of whom had osteomyelitis , were treated at cook county hospital , chicago , ill , in the past 20 years . they were mostly normal children with a single focus of infection . they represented more than 5 % of the hospitalized children with a systemic pneumococcal infection . most of the pneumococcal isolates were serotyped ; serotype 19 , in particular , seemed to be unusually common in these children . twenty-three of the 29 children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis had been hospitalized in the past 15 years . these 23 children were compared with 161 hospitalized children who had bone and joint infections with other isolated bacteria . the children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis were indistinguishable from most of the other children , except by age . all but three of the children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis were between the ages of 3 and 24 months . in this age group , pneumococcus was the common isolate from children with osteomyelitis , and second only to haemophilus influenzae from children with bacterial arthritis . pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis has never been rare ; the medical literature describes at least 245 other children , most of whom were younger than 2 years . 
differences in expression of cystic fibrosis in blacks and whites . the recent identification of the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene confirms that genetic heterogeneity occurs in cf. a three-base-pair deletion in exon 10 resulting in a loss of the phenylalanine residue at amino acid position 508 of the gene product , termed the cf conductance regulator protein , accounts for 70 % of cases of cf in white subjects . however , this gene defect occurs in only 37 % of affected blacks . analysis of cf genes from american blacks has revealed a number of mutations , most of which are unique to that population . we therefore searched for potential differences in expression of cf between 24 black and 48 white patients with cf matched for birth date and gender . black patients more frequently presented with only respiratory symptoms ( 38 % vs 10 % ) . black patients had fewer hospitalizations for pulmonary exacerbations ( 2 vs 6.9 ) , a better mean forced vital capacity ( 77 % vs 62 % of predicted ) , and higher chest roentgenogram scores ( 18.2 vs 14.4 ) than white patients . complication rates were similar except for a higher incidence of hyponatremic dehydration ( 21 % vs 2 % ) and peptic ulcer disease ( 13 % vs 0 % ) in blacks . survival time appeared to be longer in blacks , but the difference was not statistically significant . we conclude that phenotypic differences exist between black and white patients with cf , which may be due to the genetic heterogeneity between these two populations . 
hemochromatosis and infection : alcohol and iron , oysters and sepsis . hemochromatosis , or primary iron overload , is a variably expressed genetic metabolic disorder greatly modified by sex , age , diet , and alcohol consumption . although a diagnosis has been made at the bedside by careful documentation of the slow resolution of subcutaneous iron pigment , clinical diagnosis is frequently overlooked , and even autopsy may fail to reveal hemochromatosis as the cause for cirrhosis . genetic linkage studies have confirmed the extremely high prevalence of this disorder . untreated patients may succumb to sepsis caused by organisms such as vibrio vulnificus , yersinia species , and others whose virulence is altered by iron availability . 
surgical removal of subfoveal neovascularization in the presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome . we treated two patients with presumed ocular histoplasmosis , subfoveal neovascular membranes , and progressive visual acuity loss to 20/400 . vitreoretinal surgical techniques were used to remove the subfoveal membranes . visual acuity returned to 20/20 with seven months of follow-up in one patient ( case 1 ) and to 20/40 with three months of follow-up in the other patient ( case 2 ) . no evidence of persistent or current subretinal neovascular membranes in either patient have been noted . these preliminary results suggest that vitreoretinal surgical techniques may be successful in mechanically removing subfoveal neovascular membranes with preservation of overlying neurosensory retina and thus preservation of central visual acuity . 
epidemiologic characteristics , predisposing factors , and etiologic diagnosis of corneal ulceration in nepal . corneal ulceration is one of the most frequent causes of blindness in developing countries . between september 1985 and august 1987 , 405 patients with corneal ulceration were examined at tribhuvan university teaching hospital in kathmandu , nepal . males and females were equally affected . the most common predisposing cause of ulceration was corneal trauma , usually with organic agricultural materials . microorganisms were grown from 324 ( 80 % ) of the ulcers . pure bacterial cultures were obtained from 256 ( 63.2 % ) of the patients , whereas pure fungal cultures were obtained from 27 ( 6.7 % ) of the patients . in 41 patients ( 10.1 % ) , corneal cultures yielded a mixed growth of bacteria and fungi . of a total of 398 bacterial isolates , 124 ( 31.1 % ) were positive for streptococcus pneumoniae , the most commonly isolated organism in the series . other frequently isolated bacteria included staphylococcus epidermidis , s. aureus , and pseudomonas species . of 68 positive fungal isolates obtained , 32 ( 47.0 % ) were identified as aspergillus species . candida species and fusarium species were less commonly seen . 
risks of intestinal anastomoses in crohn 's disease . six hundred fifty-eight intestinal anastomoses in 429 operations for crohn 's disease were studied prospectively during an 8-year period to detect variables connected with perioperative morbidity . postoperative complications occurred in 9.7 % of the patients , 4 % had to be reoperated on , and the overall mortality rate was 0.5 % . in multivariate analysis by stepwise logistic regression , the only variable significantly ( p = 0.03 ) associated with overall rate of complications was long-term corticosteroid therapy . serious complications were more common in cases of intra-abdominal abscesses ( p = 0.01 ) and preoperative steroid medication ( p = 0.03 ) . the combination of both of these risk factors increased the rate of reoperations from 0.6 % ( no steroids , no abscess ) to 16 % ( steroids and abscess ) . no significant association with postoperative complications could be found for age , sex , duration of disease , previous operations , nutritional status , emergency surgery , extent of disease , type , number , and localization of anastomoses , presence of proximal ileo - / colostomy , or histologically inflamed margins of resection . 
metabolic changes in patients severely affected by tetanus . metabolic changes in six severely affected tetanus patients suffering from characteristic labile hypertension ( maximum systolic blood pressure greater than 200 mmhg , maximum diurnal change in systolic pressure greater than 100 mmhg ) were investigated . daily urinary excretion of urea nitrogen increased gradually from the onset of opisthotonus , reached a peak value ( 10.4 to 15.4 g/m2 ) in 8 to 20 days , and decreased subsequently . average cumulative excretion in 30 days reached 239.6 + / - 32.7 g/m2 . urine catecholamine excretion was elevated in each patient and remained elevated during this period . plasma cortisol and glucagon concentrations were not increased markedly except in a case complicated other systemic bacterial infection . increased protein catabolism in these patients could not be explained by the metabolic effects of ' stressed hormones ' alone , and neurologic factors must be considered . 
role of granulocyte elastase in tissue injury in patients with septic shock complicated by multiple-organ failure . to better understand the role of granulocyte elastase ( ge ) in mediating tissue injury during sepsis , ge levels were measured in plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( balf ) in patients with septic shock ( n = 16 ) and hemorrhagic shock ( n = 30 ) . granulocyte elastase levels were compared to levels of alpha 1-protease inhibitor ( alpha 1-pi ) . results show that although plasma ge-alpha 1-pi complex was initially elevated in patients with hemorrhagic and septic shock , elevations in plasma ge-alpha 1-pi complex ( 831 + / - 241 micrograms/l ) persisted in septic shock patients . alpha 1-protease inhibitor levels in serum were increased , resulting in an inhibition of serum ge activity . granulocyte elastase activity in balf , however , was significantly higher in those patients with septic , as compared to hemorrhagic shock ( 31.4 + / - 25.8 versus 3.7 + / - 4.0 u/l , respectively ) . in addition ge levels were compared to other parameters , including respiratory index , blood neutrophil count , and plasma levels of endotoxin , fibronectin , and coagulation factor xiii . significant correlations were observed between ge-alpha 1-pi and increased endotoxin concentration and decreased fibronectin and coagulation factor xiii levels . significant correlation was found also between ge activity in balf and respiratory index . these findings suggest that severe tissue damage occurred in patients with septic shock complicated by multiple-organ failure . although ge activity appeared to be adequately inhibited by alpha 1-pi in blood , increased ge activity in local tissues , such as lung alveoli , may be responsible for significant local tissue injury during septic shock . 
valve replacement in patients with endocarditis and cerebral septic emboli . cerebral septic emboli complicate the cases in 20 % to 40 % of patients with left-sided endocarditis but the management of these patients who require a valvar operation remains unclear . from 1980 to 1988 , the incidence of cerebral septic embolus was 42 % ( n = 45 ) among 106 patients with endocarditis who underwent valve replacement at the university of illinois hospital in chicago . of these 45 patients , 69 % ( n = 31 ) had symptomatic cerebral septic infarctions and 31 % ( n = 14 ) were asymptomatic . findings on cerebral computed tomographic scans included ischemic infarcts ( n = 36 , 80 % ) , hemorrhagic infarcts ( n = 5 , 11 % ) , normal studies ( n = 2 , 4 % ) , and unknown ( n = 2 , 4 % ) . neurological complications after valve replacement included postoperative strokes ( n = 6 , 6 % ) , cerebral abscesses ( n = 2 , 2 % ) , and seizure ( n = 1 , 1 % ) . the presence of a hemorrhagic infarct preoperatively predisposed to a perioperative stroke ( p less than 0.05 ) . in conclusion , cerebral septic infarctions , both symptomatic and asymptomatic , are common among patients with endocarditis referred for valvar operation . in the absence of a hemorrhagic infarct , valve replacement can be performed with minimal risk of a perioperative stroke . 
empyema thoracis : 14-year experience in a teaching center . one hundred two patients with empyema thoracis were managed at the royal melbourne hospital between 1976 and 1989 . fifty-five cases of empyema thoracis were postpneumonic , 8 followed esophageal rupture , and 5 were associated with thoracic trauma . some form of systemic illness was a major contributing factor in the presentation of 29 patients . a single causal organism was found in 53 patients ( the most common being staphylococcus aureus ) , multiple organisms in 36 , and no growth in 13 . during the years 1983 to 1989 there was an increased incidence of empyemas caused by multiple or antibiotic-resistant organisms . operative drainage was required in 90 patients and 12 were managed by thoracentesis or intercostal tube drainage alone . the in-hospital mortality rate for patients managed nonoperatively was 58 % ( 7 of 12 patients ) ; it was 16 % ( 14 of 90 patients ) for those receiving operative drainage . there were seven late deaths , four empyema related and three nonrelated . early adequate operative drainage is recommended for patients with empyema thoracis . 
acute rheumatic fever in west virginia . not just a disease of children . rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community . we describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever ( arf ) in west virginia . this is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of arf in the ohio valley area in the last 4 years . in contrast to the other reports , nearly two thirds of our cases of arf were in adults , more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of arf . in these adults with recurrences , none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation . carditis was present in seven adults , two without a history of carditis . arthritis was present in all adult patients . these data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of arf and document that arf is not simply a disease of childhood . furthermore , our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of arf , especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection . 
gonococcal osteomyelitis . case report and review of the literature . we report the 11th case of gonococcal osteomyelitis in the postantibiotic era . this case demonstrates the classic presentation of osteomyelitis associated with gonorrhea , a subacute illness with minimal systemic symptoms . in addition , we present radiologic evidence of the pathogenesis of this unusual osteomyelitis from a contiguous joint infection . 
studies of the route , magnitude , and time course of bacterial translocation in a model of systemic inflammation . bacteria have been documented to translocate from the gut to systemic organs , yet the exact route by which they translocate remains unclear . to determine the route of bacterial translocation , different dosages of zymosan were used to activate complement and cause systemic inflammation . at a zymosan dose of 0.1 mg/g , bacteria translocated only to the mesenteric lymph node complex , whereas at a dose of 0.5 mg/g the bacteria translocated systematically . in rats receiving 0.5-mg / g doses of zymosan , the bacteria appeared to reach systemic organs via the portal blood rather than via the mesenteric lymph , as bacteria were present in 87 % of portal blood samples but only 25 % of lymph samples . the number of bacteria exiting the portal vein was 11,500 times greater than the number exiting via the lymph . thus , both the route and extent of bacterial translocation varies based on the magnitude of the inflammatory insult , with the portal blood being the major route of bacterial translocation to systemic organs . 
fungal burn wound infection . a 10-year experience . to evaluate our experience with fungal burn wound infection , we performed a 10-year review for comparison with our experience with bacterial burn wound infection . during the study period , a marked decline occurred in bacterial wound infection but not in fungal wound infection . patients with either bacterial or fungal burn wound infection had massive injury , with burn size averaging greater than 50 % of the total body surface area . factors that appear to have markedly reduced bacterial burn wound infection , including patient isolation , topical chemotherapeutic agents , and burn wound excision , do not appear to have had a similar effect on fungal wound infection . the mechanism of spread and colonization of fungi , and the lack of effective topical chemotherapeutic antifungal agents , may explain in part our findings . 
effect of aerosolized fibrin solution on intraperitoneal contamination . the potential deleterious effects of aerosolized fibrin on contaminated procedures were investigated in a rat model of peritonitis . one hundred forty rats were divided into two groups . in the control group , gelatin capsules containing feces ( 10 ( 7 ) bacteria per milliliter ) and barium sulfate at various dilutions were placed into the abdomen ; in the second experimental group , a solution of cryoprecipitate , thrombin , and calcium was sprayed diffusely into the peritoneal cavity after similar fecal contamination . fecal inocula with low bacterial concentrations ( 0.01 , 0.1 , and 0.15 ml ) caused few deaths from peritonitis or abscess formation in either group . heavy peritoneal contamination ( 0.25 , 0.3 , and 0.5 ml ) caused early deaths from peritonitis in both groups , with 80 % of the deaths due to sepsis in the first 48 hours . however , in the moderately contaminated rats ( 0.2 ml of fecal inoculate ) , fibrin aerosol reduced the 10-day mortality from 80 % to 10 % . in all survivors in the fibrin-treated group , intraperitoneal abscesses developed . with intraperitoneal bacterial concentrations of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) organisms , early acute mortality from fibrinopurulent peritonitis is decreased at the expense of late , localized , nonlethal abscess formation . aerosolized fibrin solution must be used with caution in contaminated surgery . 
the epidemiologic features of nosocomial infections in patients with trauma . sepsis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with trauma . to elucidate factors that might lead to infection , we studied the epidemiologic characteristics of nosocomial infections in our patient population with trauma . during a 3.5-year period , 2496 patients were entered into our hospital trauma registry and cross-matched with hospital infection control surveillance information . two hundred twenty-nine patients with trauma and nosocomial infections were identified ( 9.2 % ) , a figure that was nearly twice the nosocomial infection rate for the general hospital population . the majority of those infected were either orthopedic ( 51 % ) , general surgical ( 25 % ) , or neurosurgical ( 13 % ) patients . the most common sites of first infection were urinary tract ( 61 % ) or respiratory system ( 14 % ) . patients developing nosocomial infections were significantly older and had a higher injury severity score than those who did not . injury site was related to risk of infection with injuries of the spine , chest , and extremity showing the most significant relationship . the length of stay as well as hospital charges were significantly related to the occurrence of infectious complications . by determining the patient with trauma at risk for infection , treatment strategies can be designed to minimize septic complications . 
the febrile alcoholic in the emergency department . the authors retrospectively reviewed the charts of 31 alcoholic patients admitted with fever without a defined source . in our population 58 % of patients were subsequently found to have an infectious cause for their fever . pneumonia was the most common infection , but occult urinary tract infections were seen surprisingly often . noninfectious but serious disorders , such as delirium tremens , prolonged postictal state , and subarachnoid hemorrhage , were also common . infectious and noninfectious causes commonly coexisted . the most common noninfectious cause was alcohol withdrawal , with or without seizures . the authors believe that indigent , malnourished , chronic alcoholics with fever for which a source can not be readily identified , should usually be admitted to the hospital for observation and to await culture results . 
perianal streptococcal cellulitis with penile involvement . perianal streptococcal cellulitis is described occurring in a 5-year-old boy . the condition also involved the penis and presented as a possible case of sexual abuse . the correct diagnosis was established by culturing beta-haemolytic streptococci group a from the penile and perianal skin . 
neutrophil function and pyogenic infections in bone marrow transplant recipients . in a consecutive entry trial , the incidence and time course of decreased neutrophil function was assessed in 20 patients treated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . the aim of the study was to assess the prognostic value of low neutrophil function for late pyogenic infections . chemotaxis , superoxide production , and phagocytic-bactericidal activity were studied before and 2 , 6 , 9 , and 12 months after bmt . skin window migration was quantitatively assessed 2 months after bmt . infectious complications were recorded prospectively with preset criteria during 1 year . six of the 20 leukemic patients had defective neutrophil function before bmt . two months after bmt all 10 patients with greater than stage ii graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) , and 6 of 10 patients with less than or equal to stage ii gvhd had at least one decreased function . at this time , patients with subsequent pyogenic infections had lower chemotaxis ( p less than .05 ) , phagocytic-bactericidal activity ( p less than .005 ) , and superoxide production ( p less than .025 ) than those without . defective skin window migration and combined defects were predictive for late pyogenic infections . at 9 months all tests were normal in seven patients surviving without gvhd . in contrast , at 9 months three of three patients , and at 1 year two of three with chronic gvhd had still decreased neutrophil function . in conclusion , neutrophil function is frequently impaired during the first months after bmt . combined neutrophil defects predispose to pyogenic infections and indicate the patient at risk . 
acute epididymitis : why patient and consort must be investigated . in this prospective study of 49 patients under 35 years of age with clinically diagnosed epididymitis , detailed microbiological investigation identified an infective cause in 67 % . chlamydia trachomatis was the commonest agent , present in 25 patients , but in 12 of these detection was based solely on raised antibody titres ; 20 of the 28 female consorts screened were partners of men with chlamydial epididymitis and 80 % of them were also positive for this infection . isolating the micro-organism from 14 of 16 consorts indicated active infection despite the negative swabs from the men . if this important infection is to be adequately treated we recommend that all patients in this age group with epididymitis and their partners should be referred to a specialist unit with access to full chlamydia laboratory facilities . 
a pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside , " spread-out " or " up-front , " in continuation therapy for childhood non-t , non-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia . a pediatric oncology group study . one hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-t - , non-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) were treated in a pediatric oncology group ( pog ) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) and cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) ( 1 g/m2 each ) were added to a " backbone " of standard continuation therapy . the dose and sequence of mtx/ara-c administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between mtx and ara-c . poor-risk patients ( n = 49 ) were assigned to " up-front " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission . standard-risk patients ( n = 57 ) were assigned to " spread-out " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment . toxicity after intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c , principally neutropenia and fever , was judged significant but manageable . unexpectedly , the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after " spread-out " therapy ( 38 % ) than after " up-front " therapy ( 6 % ) . at 4 years , the kaplan-meier estimate of event-free survival ( efs ) is 71 % ( + / - 7 % ) for standard-risk patients and 53 % ( + / - 8 % ) for poor-risk patients . the results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c in additional studies . 
the role of infection in the morbidity and mortality of patients with head and neck cancer undergoing multimodality therapy . cancer of the head and neck is a common cancer worldwide . the majority of patients present with locally advanced disease . recently a great deal of improvement has been made in multimodality therapy of this disease , warranting more careful consideration of factors affecting quality of life , disease course , and treatment . infection is clearly a factor . analysis of 662 hospital admissions of 169 head and neck cancer patients was performed . a definite infection was documented in 86 febrile episodes , pneumonia contributed to 40 % , bacteremia to 13 % , skin and soft tissue infection to 12 % , and tracheobronchitis to 10 % . among the evaluated risk factors , foreign bodies , specifically intravenous ( iv ) cannulae and gastrostomy tubes , race , performance status , alcohol intake , and nutritional status were statistically significant variables that predicted for or were associated with infection . infection contributed to 44 % of the deaths . 
once-daily intramuscular ceftriaxone in the outpatient treatment of severe community-acquired pneumonia in children [ published erratum appears in clin pediatr ( phila ) 1991 may ; 30 ( 5 ) :326 ] ceftriaxone , a broad spectrum third-generation cephalosporin with a half-life of six to eight hours , was evaluated prospectively in 147 children with severe community-acquired bacterial pneumonia during the period 11/15/88 -5 / 15/89 . thirty-nine of the children had been unsuccessfully treated with vanous oral antibiotics prior to admission [ corrected ] . all the patients were initially hospitalized and started on once a day intramuscular ceftriaxone . mean duration of ceftriaxone therapy was five days . pathogens were recovered from blood cultures of 17 ( 11.6 % ) patients and included s. pneumoniae ( 13 patients ) , h. influenzae ( three , all resistant to ampicillin ) and s. viridans ( 1 ) [ corrected ] . all isolates were sensitive to ceftriaxone . an additional patient had l. pneumophila diagnosed by serology . cure was achieved in 142 ( 96.6 % ) patients ; improvement was usually observed within 24-48 hours . after 48 hours , 121 ( 82.2 % ) children could be discharged and continued the therapy on ambulatory basis . based on previous experience we estimated that 383 hospitalization days were saved . no serious side effects were observed . five patients were considered therapeutic failures ; two of them developed empyema and one of them required repeated drainage procedures . a third patient experienced a relapse of pneumonia shortly after completion of therapy . the other two remained febrile for more than seven days ; their subsequent improvement was unrelated to the antibiotic therapy , suggesting a viral or mycoplasmal syndrome . our data suggest that once daily intramuscular ceftriaxone can be successfully used for the outpatient treatment of most community-acquired severe bacterial pneumonias in children . in our opinion it represents the treatment of choice for patients who failed treatment with other antimicrobials and are clinically stable enough not to require hospitalization . 
gastric epithelium in the duodenum : its association with helicobacter pylori and inflammation . duodenal biopsy specimens from 471 adults and 47 children were examined to determine the prevalence and distribution of gastric epithelium in the duodenal bulb in relation to age , gender , gastroduodenal inflammation , smoking , alcohol and consumption of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaid ) . gastric metaplasia was present in the anterior wall duodenal biopsy specimen in 31 % , was significantly less common in patients under 17 than in adults , and was more common in males than females . in sixty two adults who underwent multiple radial duodenal biopsy gastric metaplasia was randomly distributed around the duodenal circumference ; sixty three per cent of the patients with gastric metaplasia found on multiple biopsy were detected by just the anterior biopsy . gastric metaplasia was not obviously associated with alcohol , cigarette , or nsaid consumption . while the presence of gastric metaplasia was associated with adulthood , male sex , and low fasting gastric juice ph , its extent was associated with active duodenitis and helicobacter-associated gastritis . on logistic regression , gastric metaplasia in the duodenum and gastric helicobacter pylori were independent predictors of active duodenitis , but were not significantly associated with inactive duodenal inflammation . h pylori was observed in duodenal biopsy specimens from 32 patients , all with active duodenitis ; bacteria were present only on foci of gastric metaplasia , and were more likely to be seen when the metaplasia was extensive . it is proposed that inflammatory injury to the duodenal mucosa by h pylori may stimulate the development of further gastric metaplasia , and that the area of duodenum susceptible to colonisation with h pylori may therefore increase progressively until mucosal integrity is compromised and ulceration supervenes . 
helicobacter pylori in dyspeptic patients in kuwait . two hundred and four patients , mainly arabs , attending for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy at the gastroenterology clinic in mubarak al-kabeer hospital , kuwait , were examined for evidence of infection with helicobacter pylori and associated inflammation . biopsy specimens of antrum , body , and duodenum ; gastric juice ; and antral mucosal brushings were investigated by microbiological , cytological , and histopathological methods . clinical conditions diagnosed at endoscopy included gastritis , gastric ulcer , duodenitis and duodenal ulcer , but half the patients had endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosae . h pylori was detected by one or more of the procedures in at least one specimen from 197 ( 96.6 % ) of the patients . histological and cytological analysis showed equal sensitivity , but bacteriological culture was less reliable . the proportion of positive cases was high , compared with other reported series , which may have been accounted for by the variety of diagnostic techniques used in this study , the selected population ( all with gastrointestinal symptoms ) or genetic or environmental predisposing factors peculiar to the sample population . 
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella enteritidis in cirrhotic ascites . spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella is uncommon . we report three patients with ascites infected by salmonella . all three patients had advanced chronic liver disease , typically cirrhosis with portal hypertension . salmonella enteritidis grew in the ascite fluid culture of the three patients . there was no clinical or microbiological evidence of salmonella infection other than in the ascitic fluid . one patient died before antibiotic treatment was started , but the other two were treated with different combinations of antimicrobial drugs . one of them died on the fourteenth day of hospitalization , and the other survived . 
total-hip arthroplasty : periprosthetic indium-111-labeled leukocyte activity and complementary technetium-99m-sulfur colloid imaging in suspected infection indium-111-labeled leukocyte images of 92 cemented total-hip arthroplasties were correlated with final diagnoses . prostheses were divided into four zones : head ( including acetabulum ) , trochanter , shaft , and tip . the presence ( or absence ) and intensity of activity in each zone was noted , and compared to the corresponding contralateral zone . though present in all 23 infected arthroplasties , periprosthetic activity was also present in 77 % of uninfected arthroplasties , and was greater than the contralateral zone 51 % of the time . when analyzed by zone , head zone activity was the best criterion for infection ( 87 % sensitivity , 94 % specificity , 92 % accuracy ) . fifty of the arthroplasties were studied with combined labeled leukocyte/sulfur colloid imaging . using incongruence of images as the criterion for infection , the sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy of the study were 100 % , 97 % , and 98 % , respectively . while variable periprosthetic activity makes labeled leukocyte imaging alone unreliable for diagnosing hip arthroplasty infection , the addition of sulfur colloid imaging results in a highly accurate diagnostic procedure . 
technetium-99m-human polyclonal igg radiolabeled via the hydrazino nicotinamide derivative for imaging focal sites of infection in rats . the biologic behavior of human polyclonal immunoglobulin ( igg ) radiolabeled with technetium-99m ( 99mtc ) by a novel method , via a nicotinyl hydrazine derivative , was evaluated in rats . technetium-99m - and indium-111-igg were co-administered to normal rats and biodistribution was determined at 2 , 6 , and 16 hr . the inflammation imaging properties of the two reagents were compared in rats with deep-thigh infection due to escherichia coli . blood clearance of both antibody preparations was well described by a bi-exponential function : ( 99mtc-igg : t1/2 = 3.82 + / - 0.89 and 57.52 + / - 1.70 hr . 111in-igg : 3.93 + / - 0.117 and 40.71 + / - 1.26 hr ) . biodistributions in the solid organs were similar , however , small but statistically significant differences were detected : 99mtc-igg greater than 111in-igg in lung , liver , and spleen ; 99mtc-igg less than 111in-igg in kidney and skeletal muscle ( p less than 0.01 ) . at all three imaging times , target-to-background ratio and percent residual activity for the two compounds were remarkably similar . these studies establish that human polyclonal igg labeled with 99mtc via a nicotinyl hydrazine modified intermediate is equivalent to 111in-igg for imaging focal sites of infection in experimental animals . 
management of infants at risk for occult bacteremia : a decision analysis . because febrile infants with no obvious source of bacterial infection may have bacteremia , and because bacteremia is difficult to diagnose on clinical grounds , we used decision analysis to evaluate whether such infants should be treated with antibiotics , tested further , or sent home . using a simple decision tree , we found that the decision to give empiric antibiotic treatment is the decision of choice . the difference in quality-adjusted life expectancy between the " best " and " worst " decisions was only 11 days . however , this difference translated to prevention of death or permanent disability in 60 cases per 100,000 febrile children . further , empiric treatment remained the best management alternative unless the probability of bacteremia was less than 1.4 % ( less than any published prevalence ) , or the efficacy of treatment was less than 21 % . our analysis demonstrated that a test with far greater sensitivity than leukocyte count or other tests currently in use is needed to justify testing rather than treating empirically . further , an enormous patient population would be needed to find a difference of both clinical and statistical significance between treated and untreated patients in a controlled trial . in the absence of such trials , we recommend blood culture and empiric antibiotic treatment of all infants at risk for occult bacteremia . 
risk factors for multiorgan failure : a case-control study . the aim of this study was to identify factors associated with multiple organ failure ( mof ) , and assess possible interactions between the risk factors identified as such . we studied 40 mof cases and 120 controls , out of all the surgery and trauma patients who needed intensive care at our institution in a 24-month period . the univariate analyses showed that age , hypovolemic shock , massive volume administration ( mva ) , sepsis , and time of evolution before arriving to the hospital ( te ) were significantly associated with mof . logistic regression analysis showed that neither age nor mva were independently associated with mof after adjusting for all of the other variables . interactions seemed to be present between age , sepsis , and shock . we conclude that in our surgery and trauma icu adult patient population , hypovolemic shock , sepsis , and te are independent risk factors for mof . the importance of the association between shock and sepsis is discussed , as well as the possible relevance of te as a risk factor . 
improvement of septic syndrome after administration of recombinant human growth hormone ( rhgh ) ? twenty patients with generalized sepsis were studied prospectively to evaluate the effects of recombinant human growth hormone ( rhgh ) administration . five patients had developed sepsis after major abdominal surgery , 15 patients after multiple trauma with head injury ( hti-iss 38 + / - 2 and glasgow coma scale 4 + / - 1 ) . the urea production rate ( upr ) could be significantly reduced by the intramuscular administration of 1.5 iu of rhgh/kg bodyweight ( bw ) per day ( upr day : 5 , 62 + / - 6.7 gm/d vs. upr day : 10 , 42.6 + / - 5.9 gm/d ) . the catabolic index of bistrian ( bi ) was significantly lower after rhgh therapy on day 10 compared to day 5 . igf-1 increased significantly after the administration of rhgh . the nitrogen balance , however , did not become positive , despite the administration of rhgh . the changes in sepsis were estimated by the scoring system according to elebute and stoner on days 3 , 5 , 7 , 10 , and 13 . in those patients who were available for post-treatment evaluation the parameters had returned to baseline values after the withdrawal of rhgh . results indicate that this therapy might ameliorate the nitrogen intake , but has no influence on the course of sepsis . compared to previously published results in nonseptic patients , the somatomedin inhibitors as well as the split-products of the complement system and the metabolites of arachidonic acid may have been responsible for this weak effect of rhgh and igf-1 in septicemia . 
ureteric catheterization in the diagnosis of pyelonephritis -- an experimental evaluation . experimental models of renal infections have been used to determine the accuracy with which the cellular and microbiologic components of ureteric and voided urine reflected the pathologic status of the kidney in pyelonephritis . in acute pyelonephritis , the composition of the ureteric urine reflected the pathologic status of the kidney , although in a few cases ureteric samples were either sterile or cell free . animals with chronic pyelonephritis in which the lesions were either infected or sterile commonly had sterile ureteric urine . pyuria , however , was demonstrable in both these situations . in subclinical pyelonephritis , ureteric samples from infected kidneys were variably culture positive , although pyuria was a common observation . discriminate function analysis based on actual renal status and ureteric data gave an overall correct classification rate of 67 % and demonstrated at least 80 % agreement in four of the five classification groups . 
fatal fungal pericarditis after cardiac surgery and immunosuppression . the cases of two patients with fulminant pericarditis after cardiac surgery are reported . both fungal infections developed after rethoracotomy for open-chest cardiac resuscitation and high-dose glucocorticoid treatment . although the time course of both infections from the inoculation of fungi during rethoracotomy and immunosuppression with glucocorticoids to the lethal outcome was strikingly similar , histopathologic studies disclosed the disparate character of the two fungal pathogens responsible : the yeast candida albicans and the angiotropic mold aspergillus fumigatus . 
serological identification of escherichia coli o157 : h7 infection in haemolytic uraemic syndrome . to test the value of serological tests as an adjunct to bacteriological methods and toxin testing in haemolytic uraemic syndrome ( hus ) , 60 patients with the disorder were examined for evidence of faecal escherichia coli producing verocytotoxin ( vtec ) , particularly of serogroup o157 . they were also tested for serum antibodies reacting with the lipopolysaccharide of e coli o157 by means of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) and immunoblotting ; for faecal vtec by means of dna probes hybridising with the genes encoding verocytotoxins vt1 and vt2 ; and for " free " faecal vt . strains of e coli serotype o157 : h7 were isolated from 9 patients , and faecal vt2 was detected in 3 of them . strains of e coli of serotypes 05 : h - , o55 : h10 , o105ac : h18 , and o163 : h19 were isolated from 4 patients , but faecal vt was not detected . faecal vt2 was present in 1 patient from whom vtec were not isolated . antibodies to the lipopolysaccharide of e coli o157 were detected in serum samples from 44 patients . the 9 patients with faecal o157 : h7 all had high titres of these antibodies , but serum samples from 16 healthy control children were negative . serological testing of patients with hus for antibodies to the lipopolysaccharide of e coli o157 provides evidence of infection with e coli o157 when faecal bacteria or vt can not be detected . 
antimicrobial resistance of pneumococci in children with acute lower respiratory tract infection in pakistan 87 strains of streptococcus pneumoniae isolated during three winter seasons ( 1986-89 ) from the blood of children with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) in pakistan were serotyped and tested for susceptibility to a range of antimicrobial agents . 97 % of isolates were resistant to at least one antimicrobial drug . 62 % had decreased susceptibility to co-trimoxazole ( trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole ) ( 31 % were fully resistant ) and 39 % were resistant to chloramphenicol . all isolates were susceptible to erythromycin , cefaclor , cephalothin , ceftriaxone , cefuroxime , rifampicin , vancomycin , and clindamycin . 29 % of isolates were neither vaccine types nor vaccine-related types . serotype distribution and antimicrobial susceptibility varied significantly during the three winter seasons . no single serotype was found in all three winters . the findings highlight the need for surveillance of antimicrobial resistance and serotype distribution of s pneumoniae in developing countries as a guide both to the choice of agent for treatment of pneumococcal infections , especially alri , and to the formulation of new pneumococcal conjugate vaccines for use in young children . 
mycobacterial infection after renal transplantation -- report of 14 cases and review of the literature . during a nine-year period , 14 cases of mycobacterial infection ( tuberculosis ) developed in 403 renal transplant recipients at the king faisal specialist hospital and research centre in riyadh , saudi arabia , an incidence of 3.5 per cent . the annual incidence of tuberculosis was about 50 times higher than that in the general population . infection was disseminated in nine ( 64.3 per cent ) , pulmonary in four ( 28.6 per cent ) , and genitourinary in 1 ( 7.1 per cent ) . in one patient tuberculosis was transmitted by the donor 's kidney . the clinical manifestations were often ill-defined and not different from that in the normal host . cultures from all patients grew mycobacterium tuberculosis ; concomitant infection with other organisms was present in five patients ( 35.7 per cent ) . two of 18 patients ( group 1 ) with positive pretransplant tuberculin skin test developed tuberculosis after transplantation ( 11 per cent ) , and neither received isoniazid prophylaxis ; three of 70 patients ( group 2 ) with negative skin tests developed tuberculosis after transplantation ( 4.3 per cent ) . the difference between the two groups was not statistically significant . review of all published cases of mycobacterial infections in renal transplant recipients revealed 130 cases . tuberculosis was disseminated in 38.7 per cent , pulmonary in 40.2 per cent , cutaneous in 12 per cent , and miscellaneous in 9.4 per cent . atypical mycobacteria were responsible for 29 per cent of disseminated infections , 8 per cent of pulmonary infections and all cases of cutaneous and articular tuberculosis . invasive procedures were needed to establish the diagnosis in 21 of 33 disseminated cases but in only three of 47 cases of pulmonary tuberculosis ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the mortality rate from disseminated disease was 37 per cent and from all other forms of tuberculosis was 11 per cent ( p less than 0.005 ) . these findings ( 1 ) confirm the higher incidence of tuberculosis in renal transplant recipients , compared to the general population ; ( 2 ) suggest that pretransplant skin testing probably has little value in identifying patients at risk ; ( 3 ) show that disseminated tuberculosis is common after renal transplantation and requires invasive procedures for diagnosis ; ( 4 ) confirm that the donor kidney may be an important source of infection ; and ( 5 ) indicate that concomitant infection with other organisms is common . 
bacteremia due to escherichia coli : a study of 861 episodes . escherichia coli accounted for 861 ( 23.9 % ) of 3,605 episodes of bacteremia in an 18-year prospective survey at st. thomas ' hospital , a proportion that changed little during the survey . the most common focus of infection leading to nosocomial and community-acquired bacteremia due to e. coli was the urinary tract . twenty-six percent of adult female patients with e. coli bacteremia resulting from a urinary tract infection were diabetic . the o antigen serotypes identified most often were o6 , o2 , o1 , o4 , o15 , and o75 ; the multiply resistant o15 serotype of e. coli was implicated in a community outbreak of urinary tract infection . ampicillin resistance in strains causing community-acquired infection increased to the same level as that of strains causing nosocomial infection ( almost 50 % ) . the overall mortality was 20.7 % and was greater in the presence of shock ( 52.4 % vs. 15.3 % ) . death due to infection occurred in 2.6 % and 10.3 % , respectively , of cases with urinary tract and non-urinary tract foci . the adverse influence of inappropriate initial therapy on outcome was more marked in the latter half of the study . 
urinary tract infection caused by corynebacterium group d2 : report of 82 cases and review . corynebacterium group d2 ( cgd2 ) is a slow-growing , urea-splitting , multiantibiotic-resistant microorganism that is frequently isolated from urine samples and that , in certain circumstances , produces infection of the lower urinary tract ( acute and chronic cystitis ) and the upper urinary tract ( pyelonephritis ) . this paper analyzes ( by means of a retrospective and partially prospective clinical protocol ) our experience with 82 patients with cgd2 bacteriuria . the infection was symptomatic in 62 % of cases , and the clinical diagnoses included acute and chronic cystitis and pyelonephritis with or without bacteremia . because cgd2 infection of the urinary tract may require specific antimicrobial treatment and because cgd2 is a fastidious microorganism , we recommend prolonged incubation of urine cultures ( up to 48-72 hours ) , especially if the routine culture is negative , when patients are symptomatic , have alkaline urine , or have struvite crystals in the urine sediment . 
modern chemotherapy for brucellosis in humans . the most effective , least toxic chemotherapy for human brucellosis is still undecided . in vitro , the antibiotics most active against brucella include the tetracyclines , the aminoglycosides , the aminopenicillins , some cephalosporins , trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole , erythromycin , rifampin , and some new fluorinated quinolones . because brucella species are facultative intracellular parasites , the penetration of drugs into and within phagocytes and phagosomes can be problematic and can best be studied in experimental animals or tissue cultures . in humans , the effectiveness of various regimens of chemotherapy has been compared best in acute bacteremic infections by assessment of the control of symptoms , bacteremia , complications , and relapses . the standard therapy against which all other therapies have been judged is a combination of tetracycline and streptomycin , which is almost universally effective but fails to prevent relapse in 10 % of cases . a combination of oral doxycycline and rifampin is convenient and currently popular ; it is highly effective , with an average relapse rate of only 8.4 % . trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is less effective in controlling bacteremia and other manifestations : in collected series , 5.7 % of cases did not respond and 12 % relapsed . drug-resistant brucella strains are rarely a cause of therapy failure . localized brucellosis poses special problems , often requiring surgery in addition to prolonged combined chemotherapy . 
extrapulmonary pneumocystosis : the first 50 cases . over the last 35 years , 50 cases of extrapulmonary infection with pneumocystis carinii have been reported in the literature throughout the world . use of prophylactic aerosolized pentamidine may have facilitated the relative prevalence of extrapulmonary disease because of its inadequate systemic distribution . an increase in reported cases of infections due to p. carinii has been seen in conjunction with aids , but extrapulmonary pneumocystosis represents less than 1 % of all cases of infection with p. carinii . several organs or tissues may be involved , but the most common sites are lymph nodes , spleen , liver , and bone marrow . extrapulmonary spread of p. carinii infection occurs via both lymphatic and hematogenous routes . while all patients with disseminated forms of this infection die rapidly , survival for patients with aids is possible if systemic treatment is provided , if a single extrapulmonary site is involved , and if no concomitant pneumonia is present . because of the increasing frequency of this condition in patients who do not have pneumonia due to p. carinii , extrapulmonary pneumocystosis should be included among the aids-defining criteria . 
antifungal and surgical treatment of invasive aspergillosis : review of 2,121 published cases [ published erratum appears in rev infect dis 1991 mar-apr ; 13 ( 2 ) :345 ] no controlled trials of therapy for invasive aspergillosis have been done . this review appraises 2,121 cases reported in 497 articles in the literature and analyzes 440 courses of treatment of infection at various body sites in 379 patients . the exclusion of early failures of therapy skews the results toward a favorable outcome . the rate of response to amphotericin b is 55 % . mortality from pulmonary aspergillosis in bone marrow transplant recipients exceeds 94 % regardless of therapy , as does that from cerebral aspergillosis in all hosts . amphotericin b ( 1 mg / [ kg.d ] ) with flucytosine lowers mortality in neutropenic patients with pulmonary aspergillosis who did not receive a bone marrow transplant ; relapse is common . surgical debridement of aspergillus maxillary sinusitis is usually curative in nonimmunocompromised patients , whereas it increases mortality among neutropenic patients . valve replacement is essential for aspergillus endocarditis . both vitrectomy and intravitreal amphotericin b treatment are essential for aspergillus endophthalmitis . flucytosine is somewhat useful clinically . itraconazole shows efficacy in the treatment of pulmonary , skeletal , and pericardial aspergillosis . although liposomal amphotericin b is less toxic than standard preparations of the drug , relevant data are limited . the proposed potentiation of amphotericin b by rifampin is unsupported by clinical data . despite " conventional " therapy , mortality from invasive aspergillosis remains high ; new approaches must be investigated . 
severity of meningococcal disease : assessment by factors and scores and implications for patient management . results from our own and other published series of cases of meningococcal disease were used to study prognostic factors and to compose scores for assessment of severity of disease on admission to the hospital . the difference in risk for fatality was designated the factor fatality difference ( ffd ) ; the ffd was determined by subtracting the percent fatality for factor-negative patients from the percent fatality for factor-positive patients . ffd was useful for selection of good indicators of severity of disease . blood ph of less than 7.35 was the best single factor ; low platelet count came next , followed by low blood pressure , cyanosis , ecchymosis , and low blood leukocyte count . new scores were constructed based on multiple regression analyses . several older and new scores seemed to be comparable . by combining age-adjusted systolic blood pressure ( less than 100 mm hg ) , cyanosis , ecchymosis , diarrhea before or at admission , cold extremities , absence of nuchal or back rigidity , and rectal temperature of greater than or equal to 40 degrees c , a simple bedside percentage score , the menopp bedside clinical score ( moc ) , was devised . cross-evaluations on test materials generally confirmed the choice of score . the simplicity of this score made it more clinically suitable than laboratory or mixed laboratory and bedside scores . 
nosocomial infections due to xanthomonas maltophilia ( pseudomonas maltophilia ) in patients with cancer . from december 1985 to may 1986 , xanthomonas maltophilia ( formerly known as pseudomonas maltophilia ) was isolated at an increased rate at our institution ; 52 isolates of x. maltophilia were obtained in cultures of clinical specimens from 38 patients during that time . the records of 35 of these patients form the basis of this study . twelve ( 71 % ) of the 17 infected and nine ( 50 % ) of the 18 colonized patients had received or were receiving antimicrobial therapy . eleven of 17 patients ( three of seven with septicemia , three of five with pneumonia , three with urinary tract infection , and two with wound infection ) responded to antimicrobial therapy . microbiologic studies of the potential environmental sources revealed growth of x. maltophilia in two water faucets and in one water sample from the medical intensive care unit . x. maltophilia is emerging as an important nosocomial pathogen in immunocompromised patients , especially those receiving broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy . 
indigenous cases of lyme disease diagnosed in north carolina . between january 1984 and december 1989 , 102 indigenous cases of lyme disease were reported in north carolina . lyme disease was reported in each of the three major geographic regions of the state : mountain , piedmont , and coastal plain . one or more diagnoses were made in 42 of 100 counties . patients ranged in age from 5 months to 78 years ( median , 27 years ) ; 58 patients ( 57 % ) reported a history of tick exposure within 1 month of the onset of symptoms . erythema migrans was reported by 93 patients ( 91 % ) . arthritis ( 30 % ) , neurologic symptoms ( 10 % ) , and cardiac abnormalities ( 7 % ) were observed . thirty of the 102 cases were confirmed serologically by indirect fluorescence microscopy or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . 
anal submucosal injection : a new route for drug administration . vi . chronic prostatitis : a new modality of treatment with report of eleven cases . the anal submucosal route was used for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis in 11 patients . prior to presentation , the patients had received different antimicrobial agents ; the symptoms disappeared only to recur whenever the drug was discontinued . after repeated failure , the patients were treated with gentamicin to which the organisms were sensitive , via the anal submucosal route . a daily injection was given for ten days on an outpatient basis . the technique of injection is described . the patients were followed up clinically and by segmented cultures for three years . no anorectal complications were encountered as had been demonstrated experimentally . the symptoms of chronic prostatitis disappeared , and culture was negative by the end of treatment and for two to three years thereafter in all patients . it appears that the antimicrobial agent , via anal route , reaches the prostatic tissues at a higher concentration than that of the serum . the route adopted by the drug to reach the prostate from the anal submucosa is presented . 
spontaneous abortion . spontaneous abortion , or the early termination of pregnancy without outside interference , may be caused by fetal , maternal or external factors . in many cases , a specific etiology may never be identified . a variety of clinical presentations are possible , ranging from imperceptible loss to profound life-threatening shock . physicians should be able to diagnose and manage the six recognized types of spontaneous abortion : threatened , inevitable , incomplete , complete , missed and septic . in all cases , uterine evacuation , avoidance of complications and psychologic support of the family are important . the prognosis for a subsequent successful pregnancy is good , except in cases of habitual abortion . 
chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease . chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease may be caused by infections , emphysema , cystic fibrosis , lung cancer , sarcoidosis and rheumatologic syndromes . the diagnostic evaluation includes a complete history , a physical examination , a chest radiograph , and sputum examination and culture . in some cases , computed tomographic scanning and biopsy are required . 
colonoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology in the diagnosis of ileocecal tuberculosis . two cases of ileocecal tuberculosis are presented . the diagnosis was achieved by endoscopic fine needle aspiration cytology ( fnac ) , while endoscopic biopsies and brush cytology were negative . the usefulness of endoscopic fnac in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal tract tuberculosis is highlighted . 
whipple 's disease can mimic chronic aids enteropathy . previous case reports have demonstrated that the intestinal pathology of mycobacterium avium-intracellulare ( mai ) infection in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) has a light microscopic appearance similar to whipple 's disease . this case report describes a 52-yr-old male patient with a clinical picture suggestive of aids , including diarrhea , weight loss , oral thrush , and intestinal cryptosporidiosis . the intestinal biopsy showed light microscopic features compatible with either mai or whipple 's disease , but electron microscopy confirmed the presence of the whipple bacillus . markers of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection were absent . although immune abnormalities have been reported in whipple 's disease , this is the first report of opportunistic infections complicating this condition . a useful clinical pearl emerges from this and other cases : aids can mimic whipple 's disease ; whipple 's disease can mimic aids . 
disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection with hepatic involvement in a patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . extrapulmonary infection with pneumocystis carinii ( p. carinii ) in aids patients is uncommon , and is often described only at postmortem examination . although most antemortem cases involve spread to the bone marrow or spleen , p. carinii involvement of other organs has only recently been described . despite the frequency of liver enzyme abnormalities in aids patients with a history of p. carinii pneumonia , p. carinii has been observed only rarely in the liver . we present a well-documented case of p. carinii involving the liver in an aids patient with p. carinii pneumonia and progressive liver enzyme abnormalities . we suggest that p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of aids-related liver disease . 
etiology and pathophysiology of pyelonephritis . escherichia coli is the most frequent cause of pyelonephritis . its possible virulence factors include the ability to adhere and colonize the urinary tract , an important initiating factor in all urinary tract infections ( utis ) . the importance of p fimbriae in this adhesion is stressed and the evidence for its importance in pyelonephritis is presented in epidemiologic studies of patients , as well as in animal studies . it appears that both host receptor density and the nonsecretor state is responsible for susceptibility to urinary tract infection . vesicoureteral reflux can be responsible for ascending upper tract infection , but infection with p-fimbriated e coli may lead to ascending pyelonephritis without reflux because of the paralytic effect of lipid a on ureteral peristaltic activity . renal ischemia leads to renal damage following infection by reperfusion damage due to the release of superoxide . experimentally , this ischemic damage can be prevented by allopurinol , a xanthine oxidase inhibitor . the acute inflammatory response can produce renal damage because of the respiratory burst of phagocytosis , which while killing phagocytosed bacteria also damages renal tubules . an amelioration of the inflammatory response by treatment with superoxide dismutase or corticosteroids has been shown to modulate renal damage . vaccination with p fimbriae has been shown experimentally to prevent the initiation of the disease . however , since vaccines are not clinically available , the clinical and animal studies on therapy of acute disease are stressed . acute pyelonephritis during the first 3 years of life more often produced the renal damage that could lead to end-stage renal disease . 
successful prophylaxis for fungal peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis : six years ' experience [ published erratum appears in am j kidney dis 1991 jun ; 17 ( 6 ) :726 ] fungal peritonitis as a serious complication of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) is often associated with severe morbidity , capd " drop-out " and , occasionally , death . most episodes of fungal peritonitis occur during or after a period of antibiotic treatment of various bacterial infections , usually bacterial peritonitis . from april 1979 to december 1982 ( period i ) , 10 episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 415 patient-months , ie , 10.5 % of all peritonitis episodes recorded in our capd program . after the introduction of oral prophylaxis with 3 x 500,000 iu [ corrected ] nystatin during every course of antibiotic treatment , only four episodes of fungal peritonitis occurred during 2,102 patient-months , ie , 3.1 % of all peritonitis episodes from january 1983 to march 1989 ( period ii ) . this difference between the first and second periods is significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . moreover , none of the four patients who contracted fungal peritonitis in the second period received nystatin prophylaxis . thus , the simple measure of oral prophylaxis using this nonabsorbable antifungal agent in every case of an antibiotic treatment largely eliminates the risk of fungal peritonitis in patients on capd . 
successful antepartum treatment of listeriosis . a pregnant patient had a flulike illness at 27 weeks . listeria monocytogenes infection was diagnosed by blood cultures . electronic monitoring suggested the fetus was stressed . use of tocolytics inhibited uterine contractions while the mother was treated with intravenous ampicillin . four days later when labor began because of chorioamnionitis , the infant was delivered in good condition . 
a comparative study of gastrointestinal infections in united states soldiers receiving doxycycline or mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis . a double blind study of daily doxycycline ( 100 mg ) vs. weekly mefloquine ( 250 mg ) was performed on united states soldiers training in thailand to assess the effect of doxycycline malaria prophylaxis on the incidence of gastrointestinal infections . during a 5 week period , 49 % ( 58/119 ) of soldiers receiving doxycycline and 48 % ( 64/134 ) of soldiers receiving mefloquine reported an episode of diarrhea . infection with bacterial enteric pathogens was identified in 39 % ( 47/119 ) of soldiers taking doxycycline and 46 % ( 62/134 ) of soldiers taking mefloquine . forty-four percent ( 59/134 ) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 36 % ( 43/119 ) of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with enterotoxigenic escherichia coli ( etec ) , while 9 % ( 12/134 ) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 4 % of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with campylobacter . side effects from either medication were minimal . after 5 weeks in thailand , the percent of non-etec strains resistant to greater than or equal to 2 antibiotics increased from 65 % ( 77/119 ) to 86 % ( 95/111 ) in soldiers on mefloquine and from 79 % ( 84/106 ) to 93 % ( 88/95 ) in soldiers on doxycycline . doxycycline prophylaxis did not prevent or increase diarrheal disease in soldiers deployed to thailand where etec and other bacterial pathogens are often resistant to tetracyclines . 
a positron emission tomographic comparison of pulmonary vascular permeability during the adult respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia . we measured extravascular density ( evd ) and the pulmonary transcapillary escape rate ( ptcer ) for 68ga-transferrin using positron emission tomography in 14 normal volunteers and 29 patients with radiographic infiltrates , including six patients with congestive heart failure ( chf ) , eight patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , and 15 patients with focal pneumonia . contralateral , radiographically normal regions were also evaluated in the patients with focal pneumonia . mean evd was elevated in the patients with chf , ards , and pneumonia in regions of radiographic infiltrate compared with values from normal subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) , but it was not significantly different among the three patient groups . ptcer in normal subjects and in patients with chf was not significantly different ( 21 + / - 11 versus 44 + / - 16 x 10 ( -4 ) min-1 , respectively , p = ns ) . ptcer was elevated in regions of infiltrate because of either pneumonia ( 173 + / - 99 ) or ards ( 170 + / - 79 ) . ptcer was also elevated in regions contralateral to those with focal infiltrate during pneumonia , even though these regions were radiographically normal and had normal evd values . these results suggest that ptcer is a sensitive but nonspecific index of abnormal pulmonary vascular permeability , which may be useful for classifying patients in clinical studies of pulmonary edema . 
sepsis-induced lung injury and the effects of ibuprofen pretreatment . analysis of early alveolar events via repetitive bronchoalveolar lavage . current knowledge of alveolar pathophysiology during early sepsis-induced acute lung injury ( ali ) and the role of resident alveolar macrophages ( am ) in mediating alveolar inflammatory events during sepsis is limited . further , the effects of ibuprofen pretreatment upon alveolar pathophysiology and am function during early sepsis-induced ali is unclear . utilizing repetitive bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) in a porcine model of sepsis-induced ali , we studied changes in alveolar cellular constituents , bal protein content and molecular composition , and am superoxide anion ( o2 - . ) generation during early sepsis . the neutrophil percentage of recovered alveolar cells ( 17 + / - 8 % , t = 300 min versus 2 + / - 1 % , t = 0 ; p = 0.06 ) and the bronchoalveolar lavage total protein content ( 493 + / - 110 micrograms/ml , t = 300 min versus 109 + / - 18 micrograms/ml , t = 0 ; p less than 0.05 ) increased in septic animals . increases in bal fluid total protein were primarily due to low-molecular-weight plasma protein , indicating relative preservation of alveolar-capillary membrane size selectivity . alveolar macrophages harvested following 300 min of sepsis generated significantly less o2 - . following phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) stimulation compared to am harvested at baseline . ibuprofen pretreatment of septic animals completely blocked leakage of plasma proteins into the alveoli and attenuated neutrophil migration but did not prevent downregulation of am o2 - . generation . increased alveolar-capillary membrane permeability , neutrophil migration into the alveoli , and downregulation of am oxidant generation occur within hours of the onset of sepsis . ibuprofen pretreatment significantly attenuates early sepsis-induced ali without altering sepsis-induced am dysfunction . 
the intracolonic bypass tube for left colon and rectal trauma . the avoidance of a colostomy . traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum are most frequently managed by procedures that include the formation of a colostomy . primary repair without colostomy is much less commonly employed . we report nine patients with traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum treated with the intracolonic bypass tube ( icbt ) without concomitant colostomy . in all these patients we believe the standard treatment would have included fecal diversion . four patients sustained blunt trauma and five sustained penetrating trauma . healing of the colonic anastomosis occurred in all cases , and the icbts were passed per rectum between the tenth and nineteenth days postoperatively . on the basis of this study , we conclude that the icbt has a role in the treatment of selected injuries of the left colon and rectum as a safe means of avoiding a colostomy . 
parapoxvirus infections acquired after exposure to wildlife . the histopathologic and electron microscopic findings in two patients with skin lesions that developed after exposure to deer and other wildlife were consistent with a parapoxviral infection . human infections that were morphologically similar to parapoxvirus infection have been previously described concerning exposure to cervids ( deer and related animals ) . ours are the first reported cases in which viral particles were demonstrated by electron microscopy . 
absence of bacteremia during nasal septoplasty . episodes of staphylococcal bacteremia resulting in metastatic infection have occurred in association with nasal septoplasty , and this has suggested the possible need for antimicrobial prophylaxis . in a study designed to measure the actual frequency with which transient staphylococcal bacteremia occurs during nasal septoplasty , 50 healthy patients had blood cultures drawn immediately prior to and during the procedure . although 46 % of the 50 patients studied had their nasal mucosa colonized with staphylococcus aureus , some of the blood cultures obtained from the 50 patients showed bacterial growth . the authors conclude that staphylococcal bacteremia during nasal septoplasty is a rare occurrence , and that antimicrobial prophylaxis is unnecessary . 
assessment of middle-ear status during experimental otitis media using magnetic resonance imaging . magnetic resonance imaging has proved to be a useful tool for in vivo imaging of a variety of tissues . in this study , magnetic resonance imaging was applied to the middle ear of experimental animals with otitis media . results showed that the presence and distribution of effusion within the middle-ear space could be readily determined . moreover , following injection of gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid , a contrast agent , the inflamed middle-ear mucosa could be resolved . a comparison between magnetic resonance imaging and tympanometry with respect to the diagnosis of effusion showed that negative pressure tympanograms were equivocal ( 50 % effusion ) and that flat or normal tympanograms were in error in approximately 20 % of the observations . these data document a role for magnetic resonance imaging in in vivo studies of the pathogenesis of otitis media with effusion . 
correlation of gross and microscopic appearance of skin buttons in total artificial heart animals . pneumatic artificial hearts are powered by compressed air that is delivered through percutaneous tubes . a stress relief device , termed a skin button , surrounds these tubes as they exit from the recipient 's tissues . the skin button is designed to protect the tissues from damage and provide a secure material-tissue interface . prevention of superficial and invasive infection is the primary goal of the skin button . eight calves were studied prospectively to identify gross or microscopic infection with the skin button . all animals who survived more than sixty days ( 62-136 ) had both gross and microscopic evidence of infection . all animals surviving less than 60 days ( 13-43 ) had no gross evidence of infection but one had subcutaneous microscopic abscess formation . no animal died secondary to a skin button infection . skin buttons can not prevent infection but they can contain the pathologic process in the superficial tissues with no evidence of systemic effects . 
the effects of three serotypes of ureaplasma urealyticum on spermatozoal motility and penetration in vitro [ published erratum appears in fertil steril 1991 jun ; 55 ( 6 ) :1214 ] the effects of incubation of spermatozoa with three serotypes of ureaplasma urealyticum on spermatozoal motility and penetration in vitro were investigated . using computer-assisted video microscopy , three parameters of motility were determined : individual path lengths , individual vectorial distances , and percentage motility . polyacrylamide gels were used as a medium for assessment of spermatozoal penetration . ureaplasma-infected spermatozoa did have significantly greater path lengths and individual distances than did uninfected controls , but ureaplasma infection had no significant effect on percentage motility . overall , there were no significant differences in penetration distances between ureaplasma-infected spermatozoa and their corresponding uninfected controls . our conclusion is that the ureaplasmas did not adversely affect motility or penetration when spermatozoa were incubated with ureaplasmas for 45 minutes at ureaplasma : sperm ratios as high as 100:1 . 
tumor necrosis factor-independent il-6 production during murine listeriosis . we report that tnf , il-6 , and ifn-alpha/beta are produced by mice during either sublethal or lethal listeria monocytogenes infections . the quantities of these cytokines in infected spleens increase and decrease in concordance with bacterial numbers in these organs . while all of these cytokines were present in listeria-infected spleens , only il-6 and ifn-alpha/beta were found in the peripheral circulation . inasmuch as tnf has been reported to be responsible for the production of il-6 in vivo following the inoculation of a lethal dose of the gram-negative bacterium , escherichia coli ( fong et al. , 1989 . j. exp . med . 170 : 1627 ) , experiments were undertaken to determine whether il-6 production elicited by the gram-positive bacterium , l. monocytogenes , was also tnf-dependent . it was found that the passive immunization of mice with neutralizing antibodies specific for tnf shortly before i.v. injection of a lethal or sublethal listeria inoculum resulted in the complete neutralization of endogenously produced tnf , and in the progressive multiplication of bacteria in infected organs . it was also found that the anti-tnf igg treatment resulted in a progressive increase in the amounts of listeria-induced il-6 present in spleen and blood , until the death of the host . these findings indicate that listeria-induced il-6 production in mice occurs primarily through a tnf-independent pathway , and correlates directly with the severity of the infection . 
the effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests . serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation , which so often accompany systemic illness , have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy . we have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests : a decreased serum t3 concentration ; normal or , in critically ill patients , a low total serum t4 level ; and a normal free t4 concentration . another , less frequent pattern ( high total and free t4 with a normal serum t3 ) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient . with the recent advent of sensitive assays for tsh and better methods for serum free t4 , it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients ; the vast majority are euthyroid . certain drugs confound the picture . the most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids , both of which suppress tsh secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism . other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices ( e.g. , amiodarone ) . knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness , starvation , and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease . 
mycobacterium chelonei keratopathy with visual rehabilitation by a triple procedure . we report a chronic keratouveitis following an eye injury , the etiology of which remained obscure despite repeated corneal scrapings and cultures . eventually , the diagnosis was established by culturing mycobacterium chelonei from a corneal biopsy specimen . topical amikacin resolved active inflammation , but dense corneal scarring and a cataract remained . visual rehabilitation was achieved through a combined penetrating keratoplasty , extracapsular cataract extraction , and intraocular lens implantation . this case illustrates that there should be a high index of suspicion of atypical mycobacteria when faced with any unusual keratitis , particularly following penetrating injuries and corneal grafts . 
ehrlichiosis in children . tick-borne rickettsiae of the genus ehrlichia have recently been recognized as a cause of human illness in the united states . in the years 1986-1988 , 10 cases of ehrlichiosis were diagnosed in children in oklahoma . fever and headache were universal : myalgias , nausea , vomiting , and anorexia were also common . rash was observed in six patients but was a prominent finding in only one . leukopenia , lymphopenia , and thrombocytopenia were common laboratory abnormalities . six patients were treated with tetracycline , three with chloramphenicol , and one was not treated with antibiotics : all recovered . the onset of illness in spring and early summer for most cases paralleled the time when amblyomma americanum and dermacentor variabilis are most active , suggesting that one or both ticks may be vectors of human ehrlichiosis in oklahoma . 
premature rupture of the membranes and sepsis in preterm neonates . this investigation was designed as a historical cohort study using data abstracted from medical records . five hundred seven preterm neonates ( 26-35 weeks gestation ) born alive from singleton pregnancies complicated by premature rupture of the membranes ( prom ) were selected . each neonate was matched on gestational age , gender , ethnicity , and date of delivery to a neonate without prom . a matched pairs analysis was done using risk ratios ( rr ) to measure strength of the association and risk differences ( rd ) to measure absolute effect . analysis revealed that preterm births complicated by prom were at significantly higher risk of neonatal sepsis ( rr = 3.5 ) and infection ( rr = 2.4 ) . the rds indicated that prom exposure contributed an excess of 5 cases of sepsis per 100 infants ( rd = 0.05 ) . prom was not significantly associated with neonatal mortality , but when prom had existed over 48 hours there was a higher risk of sepsis and infection . birth of a neonate over 1500 grams or 33 weeks gestation was the most important factor in reducing risk of infection in prom deliveries . 
detection of streptococcus pneumoniae and haemophilus influenzae type b antigens in the serum and urine of patients with pneumonia in papua new guinea : comparison of latex agglutination and counterimmunoelectrophoresis . latex agglutination ( la ) was compared with counterimmunoelectrophoresis ( cie ) for the diagnosis of pneumonia due to streptococcus pneumoniae or haemophilus influenzae type b in children less than 6 years old in papua new guinea . neither la nor cie was sufficiently sensitive for the detection of pneumococcal antigens . cie was superior to la but had a sensitivity of only 60 % ( six of 10 ) in concentrated urine and a specificity of 90 % ( 54 of 60 ) . la for the detection of h. influenzae type b had a sensitivity of 100 % ( eight of eight ) relative to that of blood culture and a specificity of 99 % ( 112 of 113 ) when urine diluted fivefold was tested , as compared with a sensitivity of 100 % ( nine of nine ) and a specificity of 92 % ( 56 of 61 ) in undiluted urine . undiluted and concentrated urine specimens were unsuitable for la because of the many false-positive reactions that resulted from nasal carriage of h. influenzae type b and nasal carriage of the cross-reactive s. pneumoniae type 6 . cie for the detection of h. influenzae type b had a sensitivity of only 44 % ( four of nine ) in concentrated urine . 
bacterial colonization of the upper respiratory tract and its association with acute lower respiratory tract infections in highland children of papua new guinea . acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) is the major cause of death among children in papua new guinea . this longitudinal study reports the bacteriologic findings for children observed in their hamlets . a total of 1,449 nasal swab specimens from 158 children less than 5 years of age who were studied intensively for 18 months were examined . non-serotypable strains of haemophilus influenzae were isolated from 91 % of specimens , and serotypable strains were isolated from 35 % ( 8 % h. influenzae type b ) of specimens . all children had acquired streptococcus pneumoniae by the age of 3 months . the most frequently occurring serotypes of s. pneumoniae were 6 , 19 , and 23 . children more frequently carried invasive pneumococci during an episode of alri than when they were healthy . also , children more frequently carried serotypable strains of h. influenzae during the 2 weeks preceding an episode of alri than when they were healthy . between-children analyses showed that children who were susceptible to attacks of alri and those who were not susceptible had similar rates of carriage of bacteria . 
diversity of outer membrane protein profiles of nontypable haemophilus influenzae from children from papua new guinea and the philippines . we determined capsular serotypes and , with use of sds-page , patterns of outer membrane proteins ( omp ) of haemophilus influenzae isolates from specimens of blood , lung , or csf from children with acute respiratory tract infections or meningitis who were hospitalized in papua new guinea or the philippines . among 72 isolates from papua new guinea , 72 % were type b , 14 % were other encapsulated serotypes , and 14 % were nontypable . the respective frequencies among 43 isolates from the philippines were 56 % , 7 % , and 37 % . the type b isolates could be subdivided into at least eight outer membrane subtypes , most of which have been described previously . in contrast , omp profiles of the nontypable h. influenzae isolates from children in both countries were highly heterogeneous . these results differ markedly from those previously found for isolates from children with acute respiratory tract infections in pakistan , for which encapsulated h. influenzae strains other than serotype b were not observed ; 95 % of type b isolates were of a single omp subtype ; and nontypable isolates showed evidence of clonal restriction . candidate vaccines for use in developing countries as protection against disease caused by h. influenzae will need to include both capsular and noncapsular antigens and investigators must take into consideration regional differences among strains . 
clinicopathologic studies of children who die of acute lower respiratory tract infections : mechanisms of death . clinicopathologic correlations for 71 cases of fatal pneumonia in children were determined . the mechanism of death for these patients was multifactorial . severe pneumonia alone accounted for 11 deaths ( 15.5 % ) . pneumonia associated with sepsis occurred in 42 children ( 59.2 % ) . heart failure ( 8.5 % ) , hypovolemia ( 4.2 % ) , and nosocomial infection ( 12.6 % ) were also seen in children with fatal acute lower respiratory tract infection . extensive consolidation , squamous metaplasia , and hyaline membranes were present in the lungs of these children . patients with severe disease must receive , in addition to antibiotics for acute episodes , individualized intensive respiratory and supportive care . since these types of care are not available in poor communities , vaccination against measles and vitamin a supplementation for malnourished children may ameliorate the conditions that appear to predispose these children to severe or fatal disease . 
etiologic , clinical , and pathologic analysis of 31 fatal cases of acute respiratory tract infection in argentinian children under 5 years of age . during a 3-year survey of 805 children with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) who were admitted to three hospitals in buenos aires , 31 fatal cases were recorded -- a fatality rate of 3.8 % . of the 31 children who died , 77 % were less than 1 year of age , 48 % were boys , 58 % were malnourished , 29 % had previous respiratory disease , and 22 % had previous congenital disease . all children who died had clinical diagnoses of pneumonia ( 71 % ) or bronchiolitis ( 29 % ) . autopsies were performed in 14 of the cases . viral etiology was determined by both cell culture and indirect immunofluorescence ( iif ) assay of either nasopharyngeal aspirates ( npa ) or lung tissue and bacterial etiology was determined by isolation of organisms from blood , lung tissue , and/or pleural fluid . npa was examined for bordetella pertussis by iif . pathogens were identified in 65 % of fatal cases . seven cases were bacterial ; seven cases were viral ; and six cases resulted from mixed infections . lung tissue yielded positive etiologic results in 10 of 13 cases . histopathologic examination performed on specimens from the 14 autopsied children revealed necrotizing bronchiolitis with intranuclear inclusions ( n = 5 ) and multifocal pneumonia ( n = 9 ) . 
etiologic and clinical evaluation of acute lower respiratory tract infections in young argentinian children : an overview . this paper summarizes the first study on clinical , etiologic , and epidemiologic features of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) in children in argentina . a total of 1,003 children less than 5 years of age ( 805 inpatients and 198 outpatients ) presenting with alri were studied during a 40-month period . nasopharyngeal aspirate ( npa ) , blood , urine , and throat-swab samples were collected when each child was first seen for care . virologic studies were performed on the npa by means of indirect immunofluorescence and isolation of virus in cell culture . bacteriologic studies primarily were done by means of culture of blood or pleural fluid ( when available ) ; bordetella pertussis and mycoplasma pneumoniae , however , were searched for by the use of immunofluorescence and complement-fixation testing , respectively , in paired sera . respiratory syncytial virus was the most commonly isolated virus , followed by adenovirus , parainfluenza virus , and influenza virus . streptococcus pneumoniae was the most frequently isolated bacterium , followed by b. pertussis and haemophilus influenzae type b. overall , the patient fatality rate was 3.8 % among inpatients with pneumonia or bronchiolitis . 
acute lower respiratory tract infections in hospitalized patients with diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh . this study focused on 401 children less than 5 years old who were hospitalized with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) and diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh , and who were investigated for the presence of both bacterial and viral respiratory tract pathogens as well as for selected diarrheal pathogens . the most common manifestations of alri were pneumonia ( 374 cases ) , bronchiolitis ( 12 cases ) , and tracheobronchitis ( 11 cases ) . the majority ( 77 % ) of the illnesses were in children less than 2 years of age , and 88 % of the children were malnourished . a respiratory tract pathogen was identified in 30 % of the patients , and a diarrheal pathogen was identified in 34 % . the overall case-fatality rate in children with alri and diarrhea was 8 % . the case-fatality rate was 14 % in children with bacterial pneumonia and diarrhea , 3 % in those with viral pneumonia and diarrhea , and 14 % in malnourished children with shigellosis and alri . the most common respiratory tract pathogens were respiratory syncytial virus , streptococcus pneumoniae , influenza viruses , and haemophilus influenzae type b. 
diagnoses of acute lower respiratory tract infections in children in rawalpindi and islamabad , pakistan . a hospital-based inpatient and outpatient study of 1,492 cases of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) was conducted from november 1986 to march 1988 in two hospitals in rawalpindi and islamabad , pakistan . specimens of nasopharyngeal aspirate were processed for viral studies in all cases ; blood cultures were performed in 1,331 cases ; and urine was obtained for detection of bacterial antigen in 378 cases , but 227 of these samples had bacterial contamination and were discarded . respiratory syncytial virus was identified in 33 % of cases , and haemophilus influenzae and streptococcus pneumoniae were identified in 9.6 % and 9.9 % of cases , respectively . nonencapsulated h. influenzae accounted for 32 % of the haemophilus isolates , and type b was the only encapsulated h. influenzae strain identified . of the s. pneumoniae serotypes isolated , 31 % are not included in the currently available polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine . no clinical characteristic was demonstrated to be a reliable indicator for bacterial alri . 
microbial agents associated with pneumonia in children from uruguay . the etiology of severe pneumonia , not frequently encountered in a community-based study , was determined in 204 hospitalized children less than 5 years of age . potential pathogens were identified in 41 % of episodes . viruses were isolated or antigen was detected in 36.3 % of cases ; 82.4 % of these cases were due to respiratory syncytial virus . bacteria or bacterial antigens were identified in 13.2 % of cases ; streptococcus pneumoniae and haemophilus influenzae were the most frequently identified bacterial pathogens isolated from blood and/or pleural effusions . mixed infections were identified in 4.9 % of the episodes . among the 17 patients with pleural effusion whose pleural space was drained , the etiology was suggested for 10 ( 58.8 % ) . a clear-cut seasonal variation was seen , with the highest prevalence between may and october . viral infections were more common in the first 6 months of life , although viral and bacterial infections were distributed throughout the first 5 years of life . 
etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection in children from alabang , metro manila . the etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) was identified in 235 ( 43.8 % ) of 537 hospitalized children less than 5 years of age . clinical evidence of measles was found in 258 ( 48.0 % ) patients , of whom 59 had a second viral infection . a viral agent was identified in an additional 121 patients , so that a total of 379 ( 70.6 % ) had viral infections . after measles , respiratory syncytial virus was the most common respiratory virus . bacteremia was noted in 72 children ( 13.4 % ) , occurring as frequently in children with measles ( 14.8 % ) as in those without ( 12.1 % ) ; haemophilus influenzae and salmonella typhi were predominant in the former , and h. influenzae , staphylococcus aureus , and streptococcus pneumoniae were prominent in the latter . the presence of bacterial antigen in urine was not helpful in identifying bacterial infection . extrapulmonary and intrapleural complications , concomitant measles , complicated alri , female gender , and malnutrition were associated with increased mortality among children with alri . the importance of measles immunization , vitamin a supplementation for alleviation of defects associated with malnutrition , and timely antimicrobial therapy is emphasized . 
acute respiratory tract infections among a birth cohort of children from cali , colombia , who were studied through 17 months of age . for this study , 340 children less than 18 months old from a low-income , urban neighborhood in cali , colombia , were observed from birth by means of weekly home visits to detect cases of acute respiratory tract infection . all suspected cases were confirmed by trained doctors in a special clinic . information on symptoms , signs , and potential risk factors was documented prospectively . etiologic agents were identified in cases of lower respiratory tract infection ( lri ) . the overall incidence of acute respiratory tract infection was 6.6 cases per child-year at risk . the incidence of upper respiratory tract infection was 4.9 cases per child-year at risk and that of lri was 1.7 cases per child-year at risk . crowding in the home was found to be significantly associated with an increased incidence of lri . respiratory syncytial virus was the viral agent most frequently isolated from cultures of nasopharyngeal aspirates of children with lri . staphylococcus aureus was the bacterial agent most frequently isolated from the blood of patients with lri . 
rational use of antibiotics in the critically ill patient . despite the advent of newer broad-spectrum antibiotics , infection in critically ill patients still is associated with significant morbidity and mortality . for these patients , who frequently receive inappropriate and excessive empiric antibiotic therapy , it is important to develop rational drug usage criteria . current economic forces , including personnel shortages and the effects of diagnosis-related groups , are also a critical factor in this patient population . criteria for rational antibiotic selection are based on patterns of infection and knowledge of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of individual antibiotics . the development and use of treatment protocols , or algorithms , will provide quality patient care for the lowest overall cost . 
pathophysiology , monitoring , and management of the ventilator-dependent patient : considerations for drug therapy , emphasis on stress ulcer prophylaxis . adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , or noncardiac pulmonary edema , is a form of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure . the goals of treatment for patients with ards are to provide supportive therapy , to reverse the underlying etiology or pathology , and to prevent subsequent complications . supportive therapy consists of supplemental oxygen , positive end-expiratory pressure , and , often , mechanical ventilation . the reversal of the underlying pathology varies according to the etiologic origin of ards . complications from ards include stress ulcers , which occur when gastric aggressive and defensive functions become unbalanced . antacids and cytoprotective agents are used for stress ulcer prophylaxis , but histamine h2-receptor antagonists are now regarded as the standard of care . because all the marketed h2-receptor antagonists are efficacious , choice of the agent is based on the adverse effect profile and drug interactions . no definitive data currently exist linking stress ulcer prophylaxis regimens that raise intragastric ph to a significant risk for nosocomial pneumonia . 
a prospective longitudinal study of observation versus surgical intervention in the management of necrotizing pancreatitis . pancreatic necrosis is now recognized as a principal determinant of survival in acute pancreatitis . however , it is currently unknown how frequently pancreatic necrosis develops in acute pancreatitis , how often pancreatic necrosis becomes secondarily infected , and whether sterile pancreatic necrosis represents an indication for surgery or can be treated by conservative means . in 194 patients with unequivocal acute pancreatitis , pancreatic necrosis developed in 38 ( 20 % ) , as documented by dynamic pancreatography , and was confirmed by histologic diagnosis at surgery in 28 . all patients were prospectively treated by medical means . patients with pancreatic necrosis who remained persistently febrile underwent fine needle aspiration for bacterial culture . infected pancreatic necrosis was demonstrated in 27 of the 38 patients ( 71 % ) with pancreatic necrosis and was treated by open drainage , yielding a mortality rate of 15 % . all 11 patients with demonstrated sterile pancreatic necrosis , including 6 with pulmonary and renal insufficiency , were successfully treated without surgery . pancreatic necrosis occurs in approximately 20 % of patients with acute pancreatitis and is necessary for the development of secondary pancreatic infection . however , pancreatic necrosis by itself , even when accompanied by organ failure , is not an absolute indication for surgery . a trial of medical treatment for all patients with sterile pancreatic necrosis is in order . 
lymphoproliferative responses to borrelia burgdorferi in lyme disease . objective : to compare lymphocyte proliferative responses to borrelia burgdorferi in healthy controls and patients with lyme disease . patients : twelve patients fulfilling case-definition criteria for lyme disease . twelve healthy volunteers and two newborns served as controls . measurements : antibodies to b. burgdorferi were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) . proliferation of peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured for 5 days with b. burgdorferi , recall antigens , or pokeweed mitogen was measured by radioactive thymidine uptake . results : lymphocytes from 11 patients with lyme disease , 8 healthy seronegative controls , and two newborns showed elevated responses when stimulated with b. burgdorferi . when a patient and a control were studied on the same day , the patient 's lymphocyte response to b. burgdorferi exceeded the control 's in only 5 of 12 cases . lymphocytes from both patients and controls responded to b. burgdorferi isolates from three different sources . conclusions : heightened lymphocyte responses to b. burgdorferi are found in patients with lyme disease but elevated responses also frequently occur in healthy controls . at present , the interpretation of a positive lymphocyte response to b. burgdorferi would be difficult in ambiguous clinical situations . 
aspergillus terreus endophthalmitis in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia . a 65-year-old woman with a 7-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with acute visual loss , pain , and redness in her right eye . results of stains and cultures of anterior chamber fluid were negative . neurologic problems , bronchopulmonary pneumonia , recurrent skin lesions , and a low-grade fever developed . progressive respiratory distress ensued , and the patient died 1 month after presentation . cultures from antemortem sputum and skin samples were positive for aspergillus terreus . postmortem histologic results showed extensive a terreus invasion of the posterior vitreous , retina , choroid , and anterior optic nerve . this organism was also found in histologic sections from the right adrenal gland , left kidney , thyroid , urinary bladder , right lung , skin , esophagus , sputum , vessels of the myocardium , and brain . to our knowledge , a terreus endophthalmitis has not been reported previously . 
the incidence of ulcerative keratitis among aphakic contact lens wearers in new england . we conducted a population-based incidence study in five new england states to quantify the risk of ulcerative keratitis associated with contact lens use among aphakic persons . all practicing ophthalmologists in the five-state area were surveyed to identify prospectively all new cases of ulcerative keratitis during a 4-month period . the number of aphakic persons using specific types of contact lenses was estimated through a telephone survey of 4178 households identified by random digit dialing . the annualized incidence of ulcerative keratitis among aphakic persons using contact lenses was estimated to be 52 cases per 10,000 aphakic contact lens wearers ( 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) , 31.1 to 86.9 ) . the risk of ulcerative keratitis varied substantially by lens use , with extended wear having an estimated sevenfold greater risk relative to daily wear ( 95 % ci , 1.6 to 30.2 ) . rates of ulcerative keratitis in aphakic persons using contact lenses were much greater than rates among cosmetic wearers of the same lens type : for daily-wear lenses , aphakic persons were estimated to have 6.3 times the risk of cosmetic wearers ( 95 % ci , 1.9 to 21.0 ) , and for extended-wear lenses , aphakic persons were estimated to have 8.7 times the risk of cosmetic wearers ( 95 % ci , 3.5 to 21.9 ) . these risks are useful in assessing the benefits and risks of contact lens wear as an alternative to other methods of aphakic correction . 
endophthalmitis from contaminated donor corneas following penetrating keratoplasty . we encountered six ( 0.2 % ) cases of endophthalmitis resulting from contaminated donor corneas between january 1983 and july 1990 following a total of 3000 consecutive penetrating keratoplasties . causative organisms in the three cases of fungal endophthalmitis were torulopsis glabrata , candida albicans , and aspergillus flavus ; the three cases of bacterial endophthalmitis were due to klebsiella pneumoniae , staphylococcus aureus , and enterococcus faecalis . all organisms were resistant to gentamicin in the preservation media . a significantly higher incidence of endophthalmitis was noted in patients receiving corneas from a sri lankan eye bank ( 1.25 % ) than in those receiving us eye bank tissue ( 0.14 % ) . donor rim cultures are important to identify those patients at increased risk of developing endophthalmitis , enabling earlier diagnosis and more specific treatment should endophthalmitis occur . 
chronic postoperative endophthalmitis associated with actinomyces species . actinomyces species , gram-positive , non-spore-forming anaerobic bacilli were isolated from intraocular fluid obtained from four otherwise healthy patients with a delayed onset of postoperative endophthalmitis . one patient had a mixed anaerobic infection with recovery of both actinomyces israelii and propionibacterium acnes . in all four patients , early postoperative visual acuity was good but was eventually markedly reduced by intraocular inflammation that was first observed between 21 days and 4 months following uneventful extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation . inflammation was characterized by anterior segment and vitreous cellular debris in all cases . all eyes responded to therapy that included intraocular , topical , and systemic antibiotics as well as pars plana vitrectomy and partial iridectomy . these cases further illustrate the need for microbiologic investigation , including anaerobic cultures , in all cases of chronic postoperative inflammation following extracapsular cataract extraction , regardless of the time of onset . 
penetrating ocular injury from contaminated eating utensils . although the rate of infectious endophthalmitis following penetrating ocular injury is generally less than 10 % , certain settings may carry a greater risk of infection . one such setting is penetrating injury resulting from eating utensils contaminated with oral flora . we reviewed six of these injuries . culture-positive bacterial endophthalmitis developed in four of the six eyes ; only one of the eyes retained reading visual acuity ( greater than 20/50 ) and two eyes lost light perception . the potential for infection and limited visual outcome in this series warrants aggressive prophylaxis and treatment . the unexpected isolation of haemophilus influenzae in two of the four infections suggests that broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment should be considered in all such injuries since less common organisms may be encountered . 
increase in native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci : an anglo-french clinical and microbiological study . native valve endocarditis caused by coagulase negative staphylococci has become more common . a study of 35 cases showed that the infections were usually acquired in the community and occurred in men ( mean age 51 years ) . a pre-existing cardiac abnormality ( mitral leaflet prolapse in a third of patients ) was detected in 26 ( 74 % ) . the source of the organisms in the community acquired infections was assumed to be the skin , though lesions were seldom demonstrated ; most hospital acquired infections resulted from intravenous devices . community acquired organisms were usually sensitive to penicillin , whereas those acquired in hospital were often multiresistant . most infections were caused by staphylococcus epidermidis . the frequency of acute presentation ( 26 % ) and of major neurological abnormality ( 23 % ) , together with the need for valve replacement ( often emergency ) ( 51 % ) and the mortality ( 36 % ) suggest that coagulase negative staphylococci can be virulent aggressive pathogens , mimicking staphylococcus aureus . 
early antibiotic treatment of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections : clinical and serological study . objective -- to find out whether a 10-14 days ' course of antibiotics early in the course of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections could reduce the severity and duration of the disease and whether the antibody response in patients with reactive arthritis associated with yersinia infection differed between those treated and those not treated with the antibiotics . design -- prospective multicentre trial in which patients were randomised to treatment or no treatment with antibiotics . patients were seen at three and six weeks and three , six , nine , 12 , and 18 months after their first visit . setting -- departments of infectious diseases in three hospitals in linkoping , malmo , and stockholm , sweden . patients -- 40 consecutive patients who had had symptoms of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection for less than four weeks . interventions -- 20 patients were allocated to treatment with antibiotics and 20 patients did not receive antibiotics . all patients received non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , and four also received intra-articular steroid injections after at least six weeks ' observation . main outcome measures -- arthritic symptoms assessed clinically and by using ritchies ' index ; blood measurements reflecting inflammatory activity ; serum igg , igm , and iga antibody titres ; hla tissue type . results -- no difference was observed concerning duration of arthritis , grade of inflammation , and number of joints affected between patients treated and those not treated with antibiotics . furthermore , there was no significant difference between the two groups in erythrocyte sedimentation rate and haptoglobin , igg , and iga concentrations . all values had returned to normal within three months . no patient developed chronic arthritis , but sustained slight arthralgia occurred in three patients . the hla-b27 antigen was found in 23 ( 58 % ) of the patients , and its presence did not affect clinical outcome . the igg , igm , and iga antibody responses were similar in patients treated with antibiotics and those not treated . conclusion -- short term antibiotic treatment has no beneficial effect on the clinical outcome of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection . 
effect of steroids on cerebrospinal fluid penetration of antituberculous drugs in tuberculous meningitis . sixteen patients with oral isoniazid , pyrazinamide , rifampin , and intramuscular streptomycin for tuberculous meningitis were studied . the concentrations of isoniazid , pyrazinamide , rifampin , and streptomycin in cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) obtained 3 hours after administration were 2.40 , 34.78 , 0.29 , and 3.78 micrograms/ml , respectively . the csf concentrations of isoniazid and pyrazinamide were well above the minimum inhibitory concentration for mycobacterium tuberculosis . concentrations of rifampin and streptomycin were above the minimal inhibitory concentration initially but declined below the minimal inhibitory concentration at later times . the csf penetration of isoniazid , pyrazinamide , rifampin , and streptomycin was about 89 % , 91 % , 5 % , and 20 % , respectively . in eight patients who received antituberculous drugs in combination with steroids , the mean csf and serum concentrations , as well as csf/serum ratios at various intervals of treatment , were not statistically different ( p greater than 0.05 ) from those of the eight patients who did not receive steroids . 
endothelin immunoreactivity in mice with gram-negative bacteraemia : relationship to tumour necrosis factor-alpha . 1 . to investigate the role of endothelin in gram-negative bacteraemia and the possible involvement of tumour necrosis factor-alpha in its pathophysiology , we measured plasma and tissue ( lung , kidney and spleen ) immunoreactive endothelin levels in gram-negative bacteraemic mice , with and without passive immunization by anti- ( tumour necrosis factor-alpha ) antibody . 2 . plasma immunoreactive endothelin levels were greatly increased after the escherichia coli injection . pretreatment with anti- ( tumour necrosis factor-alpha ) antibody did not suppress elevated plasma immunoreactive endothelin levels ( p greater than 0.1 ) . 3 . lung tissue immunoreactive endothelin levels in mice were increased 16 h after the e. coli injection and were not affected by prior passive immunization with anti- ( tumour necrosis factor-alpha ) antibody . immunoreactive endothelin in spleen and kidney was undetectable ( less than 34 fmol/g wet weight ) . 4 . injection of rmu tumour necrosis factor-alpha into mice did not increase plasma immunoreactive endothelin levels . 5 . antibody to endothelin given 30 min after a 90 % lethal dose challenge with e. coli did not affect mortality . 6 . we conclude that the rise in plasma and tissue endothelin that occurs in gram-negative bacteraemia is independent of tumour necrosis factor-alpha . 
non-invasive assessment of the cardiovascular eicosanoids , thromboxane a2 and prostacyclin , in randomly sampled males , with special reference to the influence of inheritance and environmental factors . 1 . we studied , in a random sample of 385 nonsmoking men born in 1968-1969 and 31 men born in 1913 or 1923 , whether inheritance and environmental factors influenced platelet activity and vessel wall prostacyclin formation , as reflected non-invasively by the urinary excretion of the 2,3-dinor-metabolites of thromboxane a2 ( 2,3-dinor-thromboxane b2 , tx-m ) and prostacyclin ( 2,3-dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha , pgi-m ) , respectively . 2 . fathers of young men with high platelet activity did not excrete more tx-m than fathers of young men with low platelet activity . men born in 1913 or 1923 displayed higher tx-m ( 563 versus 128 pg/mg of creatinine , p less than 0.001 ) and pgi-m ( 163 versus 130 pg/mg of creatinine , p less than 0.01 ) excretion than those born in 1968-1969 . excretion of both tx-m and pgi-m was correlated to the urinary output of noradrenaline and adrenaline . 3 . well-trained subjects did not differ in their excretion of tx-m or pgi-m from those who did not exercise regularly . a recent acute infection was also unrelated to the excretion of tx-m or pgi-m . pgi-m excretion was , however , significantly correlated to tx-m excretion ( r = 0.51 , p less than 0.001 ) . 4 . this study provides the first non-invasive evidence that advancing age and sympathoadrenal tone are positively correlated to platelet activity in randomly sampled men , and that paternal inheritance , physical fitness and recent infection lack correlation to platelet activity . 
malassezia furfur fungemia associated with central venous catheter lipid emulsion infusion . malassezia furfur has been associated with fungemias in infants after prolonged intravenous lipid emulsion alimentation . most cases of m. furfur fungemia reported in the literature involved neonates and required catheter removal for cure . m. furfur is probably an underreported problem in neonates as well as adults with central venous catheters , receiving lipid emulsions , because the organism requires selective enrichment media for growth , for example , sabouraud 's dextrose agar with sterile olive oil overlay . this case report of m. furfur fungemia in a neonates is unique because the neonate recovered on discontinuation of the lipid emulsion , without removal of the central venous catheter . 
failure of therapy with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to modify the course of sepsis-induced lung injury . oxidant-induced injury of the pulmonary microvasculature reportedly contributes to an increase in microvascular permeability and pulmonary hypertension , both of which are principal features of acute lung injury ( ali ) . we tested the hypothesis that antioxidant therapy with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( dhb ) , initiated in awake sheep after the development of sepsis-induced ali , would ameliorate the progression of these lesions . dhb has many actions that suggested to us the potential for demonstrating benefit in ali complicating sepsis ; it is a nontoxic hydroxyl-radical scavenger that also inhibits the cyclooxygenase pathway and acts as a weak iron chelator . in preliminary experiments , we demonstrated that pretreatment with dhb prevented an increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressure , plasma thromboxane a2 , measured as its metabolite thromboxane b2 , and lymph total protein clearance that otherwise followed an infusion of zymosan-activated plasma ( zap ) in sheep . in subsequent experiments , 12 additional sheep were rendered septic by cecal ligation and perforation . twenty-four to 36 h after cecal ligation and perforation , an increase in lung microvascular permeability was confirmed , because pulmonary lymph flow had increased by 82 % while the mean lymph-to-plasma total protein ratio was unchanged from baseline . at this point , six sheep were then treated with parenteral dhb and six with dhb vehicle for the subsequent 24 h. in contrast to the demonstrated benefit of dhb pretreatment in preventing ali secondary to an infusion of zap , the progressive increase in lymph total protein clearance that complicated septic lung injury in the dhb vehicle group throughout this 24-h study period was not ameliorated in the dhb treatment group . however , dhb did prevent a modest increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressures that was demonstrated in the dhb vehicle group throughout this 24-h treatment period . although pretreatment prevented ali after a zap infusion , we conclude that dhb only incompletely modified disease progression when administered after the onset of sepsis-induced ali because it ameliorated the pulmonary hypertensive response without concurrently modifying an increase in lung microvascular fluid flux . 
cofactors in male-female sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . in a study of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) - uninfected african prostitutes , 83 ( 67 % ) of 124 seroconverted to hiv-1 . oral contraceptive use ( odds ratio [ or ] , 3.1 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 1.1-8 .6 ; p less than .03 ) , genital ulcers ( mean annual episodes , 1.32 + / - 0.55 in seroconverting women vs. 0.48 + / - 0.21 in seronegative women ; p less than .02 ) and chlamydia trachomatis infections ( or , 3.6 ; ci , 1.3-11 .0 ; p less than .02 ) were associated with increased risk of hiv-1 infection . condom use reduced the risk of hiv-1 infection ( or , 0.11 ; ci , 0.05-0 .27 ; p less than .0001 ) . stepwise logistic regression analysis confirmed independent associations between hiv-1 infection and oral contraceptive use , condom use , genital ulcers , and c. trachomatis . the presence of other sexually transmitted diseases may in part explain the heterosexual hiv-1 epidemic in africa and may represent important targets for intervention to control hiv-1 infection . 
the prevalence and incidence of clinical and asymptomatic lyme borreliosis in a population at risk . a past history of clinical lyme borreliosis and the 6-month incidence of clinical and asymptomatic lyme borreliosis was studied prospectively in a high-risk population . in the spring , blood samples were drawn from 950 swiss orienteers , who also answered a questionnaire . igg anti-borrelia burgdorferi antibodies were detected by elisa . positive igg antibodies were seen in 248 ( 26.1 % ) , in contrast to 3.9 % -6.0 % in two groups of controls ( n = 101 ) . of the orienteers , 1.9 % -3.1 % had a past history of definite or probable clinical lyme borreliosis . six months later a second blood sample was obtained from 755 participants , 558 ( 73.9 % ) of whom were seronegative initially ; 45 ( 8.1 % ) had seroconverted from negative to positive . only 1 ( 2.2 % ) developed clinical lyme borreliosis . among all participants , the 6-month incidence of clinical lyme borreliosis was 0.8 % ( 6/755 ) but was much higher ( 8.1 % ) for asymptomatic seroconversion ( 45/558 ) . in conclusion , positive lyme serology was common in swiss orienteers , but clinical disease occurred infrequently . 
randomized comparison of ceftriaxone and cefotaxime in lyme neuroborreliosis . in this prospective , randomized , open trial , 33 patients with lyme neuroborreliosis were assigned to a 10-day treatment with either ceftriaxone , 2 g intravenously ( iv ) every 24 h ( n = 17 ) , or cefotaxime , 2 g iv every 8 h ( n = 16 ) . of the 33 patients , 30 were eligible for analysis of therapeutic efficacy . neurologic symptoms improved or even subsided in 14 patients of the cefotaxime group and in 12 patients of the ceftriaxone group during the treatment period . at follow-up examinations after a mean of 8.1 months , 17 of 27 patients examined were clinically asymptomatic . in one patient borrelia burgdorferi was isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) 7.5 months after ceftriaxone therapy . csf antibiotic concentrations were above the mic 90 level for b. burgdorferi in nearly all patients examined . patients with lyme neuroborreliosis may benefit from a 10-day treatment with ceftriaxone or cefotaxime . however , as 10 patients were symptomatic at follow-up and borreliae persisted in the csf of one patient , a prolongation of therapy may be necessary . 
antipneumococcal activity of ciprofloxacin , ofloxacin , and temafloxacin in an experimental mouse pneumonia model at various stages of the disease . the efficacy of temafloxacin against streptococcus pneumoniae in an experimental murine pneumonia model was compared with that of ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin . erythromycin and amoxicillin were used as reference agents . subcutaneous administration of antibiotics every 12 h for 3 days was initiated at various times after infection . the cumulative survival rates of mice treated with temafloxacin at 50 mg/kg were 100 % , 92 % , 81 % , and 50 % with treatment beginning 18 , 48 , 72 , and 96 h after infection , respectively . the activity of temafloxacin at 50 mg/kg was not significantly different from that of erythromycin and amoxicillin but was superior to that of ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin . the maximum cumulative survival rates of mice treated with ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin at 100 mg/kg were 67 % and 50 % , respectively , with treatment beginning 18 h after infection . treatment with ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin at 50 mg/kg 18 h after infection did not significantly increase survival rates compared with those of untreated controls . 
dependence among host response parameters used to diagnose urinary tract infection . the host-response parameters fever , c-reactive protein ( crp ) , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) are activated in concert by cytokines such as interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) . il-6 is secreted in response to escherichia coli infection of the urinary tract . this study tested the hypothesis that the level of fever , crp , and esr is coregulated in individual patients . body temperature , crp , esr , pyuria , and renal concentrating capacity were analyzed in 692 children with first-time urinary tract infections . the association of the parameters was evaluated by correlation and multiple regression analysis . the body temperature , crp , and esr were significantly correlated ( r = .54 , .58 , and .58 ; p less than .001 ) , and variation in crp and esr explained approximately 40 % of the variation in fever . in contrast , the renal concentrating capacity and pyruia were weakly or not at all correlated with the febrile response ( r = -.22 ; p less than .001 ) , and less than 10 % of the variation in renal concentrating capacity was explained by the other parameters . the results suggest that fever , crp , and esr describe the same aspect of the host response to uti . 
comparison of functional activities between igg1 and igm class-switched human monoclonal antibodies reactive with group b streptococci or escherichia coli k1 . the influence of valence and heavy chain on antibody activity was investigated using transfectoma-derived , class-switched igg1 and igm human monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) reactive with the bacterial pathogens escherichia coli k1 and group b streptococcus species . igg-igm pairs were compared in vitro for antigen binding and opsonic activities and in vivo for protective efficacy in neonatal rats . for the anti-e . coli pair , the igm mab was 1000-fold more potent in all assay formats . importantly , the 50 % protection dose ( pd50 ) of the igm mab was 10-20 ng/rat , while 100 micrograms of the igg mab was only minimally protective . for the group b streptococcal mabs , the igm was 100 - and 4500-fold more potent in binding and opsonization assays , respectively . however , while 20 micrograms of igm protected neonatal rats , 100 micrograms of igg mab was partly protective . these experiments demonstrate the utility of recombinant dna technology for creating a panel of antibodies that may aid in selecting potential immunotherapeutic candidates . 
macrophage - and oxidant-mediated inhibition of the ability of live blastomyces dermatitidis conidia to transform to the pathogenic yeast phase : implications for the pathogenesis of dimorphic fungal infections . conidia , produced by the mycelial phase of dimorphic fungi , are thought to represent the infectious form of the organism but must complete a transition to the tissue-invasive , yeast-like phase for infection to ensue . preventing such transition should effectively eliminate pathogenicity . using blastomyces dermatitidis as a target , murine bronchoalveolar macrophages preferentially blocked phase transition after 4 h of incubation with conidia , relatively sparing the ability of conidia to produce hyphae . h2o2 , in relatively high concentrations , demonstrated the same activity . the effects of h2o2 seem irreversible , since h2o2-treated conidia that germinated at 48 h at 25 degrees c were still unable to produce yeasts over the next 5 days when incubated at 37 degrees c. catalase could not reverse the macrophage-induced inhibition of phase transition , suggesting that nonoxidative defense mechanisms may be operative in vivo . since conidia do not form mycelia at temperatures found in mammalian hosts , these effects may represent a novel host defense mechanism against dimorphic fungal pathogens . 
three new serovars of chlamydia trachomatis : da , ia , and l2a . three new chlamydia trachomatis serovars were identified by several monoclonal antibodies in the microimmunofluorescence test and are proposed to be called da , ia , and l2a . each was clearly distinguishable from the related serovars d , i , and l2 . to date , 7 , 41 , and 4 isolates of the respective serovars have been identified . each appears to be distributed worldwide . the findings meet previously established criteria for establishment of new serovars . 
molecular epidemiologic techniques in analysis of epidemic and endemic shigella dysenteriae type 1 strains . during 1988 the number of shigella dysenteriae type 1 infections reported in the united states increased fivefold . to determine if recent isolates from mexico were related to those that caused epidemics of dysentery worldwide , southern hybridization analysis was done with shiga toxin and ribosomal rna gene probes . western hemisphere and eastern hemisphere strains differed by the size of a single ecori fragment carrying the shiga toxin genes . three ribosomal dna ( rdna ) patterns were observed , which correlated with the strain 's continental origin for 81 of 83 isolates tested . together the shiga toxin and rdna probe results indicated that recent mexican isolates were chromosomally similar to earlier central american isolates and distinct from asian and african strains . this suggests there has been no significant exchange of organisms between continents in recent decades and that the 1988 outbreak in mexico was caused by strains present in central america since at least 1962 . 
combined use of released proteins and lipopolysaccharide in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serologic screening of yersinia infections . an elisa for the screening of serum antibodies to yersinia species was developed using plasmid-encoded released proteins of yersinia enterocolitica o :8 and lipopolysaccharide of y. enterocolitica o :3 as a combined antigen . of 43 sera from patients infected with one of six different yersinia serotypes , 40 ( 93 % ) were positive in this assay . when tested using six serotype-specific elisas with the corresponding yersinia bacteria as antigens , 38 ( 88 % ) were positive . this screening elisa detects antibodies to all virulent yersiniae in one assay and offers the possibility for diagnosis of infections caused by yersinia serotypes seen only occasionally and not usually included in the serotype-specific elisas . thus , this elisa offers a substantial advantage by saving time and money in routine laboratory work . 
indium-111-labeled leukocyte scan in detection of synthetic vascular graft infection : the effect of antibiotic treatment . to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the indium-111 - ( 111in ) labeled leukocyte scan for prosthetic vascular graft infection in patients treated with antibiotic therapy , a retrospective study was performed . of 41 consecutive 111in-labeled leukocyte scans performed to evaluate possible vascular graft infection , 23 scans were performed in patients treated with antibiotics . the average duration of antibiotic therapy was 21 days . twelve positive and 11 negative scans for graft infection were found . by surgical and autopsy correlation of all positive cases , and clinical correlation ( of all negative cases ) , there were 10 true-positive , 11 true-negative , 2 false-positive , and no false-negative scans for graft infections , for an overall sensitivity of 100 % and specificity of 85 % . 
indium-111-chloride and three-phase bone scintigraphy : a comparison for imaging experimental osteomyelitis . to investigate the utility of indium-111-chloride ( 111in-cl ) imaging in detecting osteomyelitis complicating surgical or fracture sites , the proximal tibia of 11 dogs were experimentally infected with staphylococcus aureus after creation of a cortical defect . the contralateral limb served as a sham-operated control . animals were serially imaged by radiography , three-phase technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate ( 99mtc-mdp ) scintigraphy , and 111in-cl scintigraphy . there was a significant difference between infected ( 1.93 ) and noninfected ( 1.32 ) limb 's tibia/femur count density ratios on 24-hr ( p = 0.0001 ) and 72-hr ( p = 0.0001 ) 111in-cl images . a smaller difference was found for 99mtc-mdp bone-phase tibia/femur ratios ( p = 0.0199 ) . using receiver operator characteristic analysis of tibia/femur ratios , a sensitivity of 61 % , specificity of 88 % , and positive ( 75 % ) and negative ( 79 % ) predictive values were determined for the 24-hr 111in-cl images . indium-111-chloride was superior to 99mtc-mdp in differentiating infected and noninfected operative sites . 
roentgenologic features of pulmonary blastomycosis . in 35 cases of pulmonary blastomycosis , the roentgenologic features were as follows : consolidation 26 % , mass 31 % , intermediate-sized nodules 6 % , miliary pattern 11 % , solitary cavity 9 % , fibrotic and cavitary changes 6 % , interstitial pattern 6 % , diffuse alveolar involvement 3 % , and mixed alveolar and interstitial infiltrate 3 % . all symptomatic cases of consolidation were acute ( symptoms for less than 1 month ) , and most were in young patients ( mean age , 34 years ) . consolidation constituted 58 % of the acute cases in this series . two of the nine cases of consolidation were asymptomatic epidemic cases detected by screening . a pulmonary mass was the most common initial manifestation in this series ; it tended to occur in patients with chronic symptoms ( more than 1 month ) . the mass was considered suggestive enough of bronchogenic carcinoma to necessitate resection in 55 % of cases . the military form of pulmonary blastomycosis occurred in older patients with disseminated disease . fibrotic and cavitary disease was chronic in nature . the presence of intermediate-sized nodules elsewhere in the lung proved to be a helpful diagnostic finding in several patients with consolidation , mass , or cavitary disease . hilar adenopathy , postinfectious calcification , chest wall invasion , and pleural effusion occurred infrequently or not at all in this series . 
children born to women with hiv-1 infection : natural history and risk of transmission . european collaborative study . 600 children born to hiv-infected mothers by june 15 , 1990 , in ten european centres were followed to study the natural history of hiv infection and the vertical transmission rate . they were seen at birth , every 3 months up to 18 months of age , and every 6 months thereafter . at last follow-up , 64 children were judged to be hiv infected and 343 had lost antibody and were presumed uninfected . the initial clinical feature in infected children was usually a combination of persistent lymphadenopathy , splenomegaly , and hepatomegaly , though 30 % of children presented with aids , or with oral candidosis followed rapidly by aids . an estimated 83 % of infected children show laboratory or clinical features of hiv infection by 6 months of age . by 12 months , 26 % have aids and 17 % die of hiv-related disease . subsequently , the disease progresses more slowly and most children remain stable or even improve during the second year . the vertical transmission rate , based on results in 372 children born at least 18 months before the analysis , was 12.9 % ( 95 % cl 9.5-16 .3 % ) . virus has been repeatedly isolated in an additional small proportion of children ( 2.5 % , 95 % cl 0.7-6 .3 % ) who lost maternal antibody and have remained clinically and immunologically normal . without a definitive virological diagnosis , the monitoring of immunoglobulins , cd4/cd8 ratio , and clinical signs could identify hiv infection in 48 % of infected children by 6 months , with a specificity of more than 99 % . 
association of escherichia coli hep-2 adherence patterns with type and duration of diarrhoea . 373 ( 59 % ) out of 636 faecal specimens obtained during the first 2 years of life of 72 mexican children yielded adherent escherichia coli ( hep-2 cells ) . strains with localised adherence were significantly associated with acute non-bloody diarrhoea , whereas strains with aggregative adherence were significantly associated with persistent diarrhoea . half the strains with localised adherence were not enteropathogenic e coli serotypes nor did they hybridise with an enteropathogenic e coli adherence factor dna probe . all strains with localised adherence gave a positive fluorescent actin staining ( fas ) assay , irrespective of serotype . one-third of children colonised by aggregative strains had bloody diarrhoea . isolation of strains with diffuse adherence was not related to type or duration of diarrhoea but was generally associated with isolation of another pathogenic organism . 
fungal tracheobronchitis . report of 9 cases and review of the literature . clinical , roentgenographic and pathologic findings are described in 9 patients with fungal tracheobronchitis and comparison is made with 25 additional cases in the literature . two morphologic patterns were identified : the first appears as a pseudomembrane of necrotic tissue , exudate , and fungal hyphae involving more-or-less the entire circumference of the bronchial wall or as mucus/fungus plugs completely occluding the airway lumen ; the second consists of single or multiple discrete plaques on the airway wall , sometimes associated with invasion of the adjacent lung parenchyma or pulmonary artery . as with more invasive forms of fungal infection , a compromise in host defenses is probably the most important factor leading to fungal colonization and subsequent local invasion . malignancies of the hematologic and lymphoreticular systems , solid neoplasms , granulocytopenia , and a history of a protracted course of broad-spectrum antibiotics , corticosteroids , and chemotherapy were present in most of our patients and in those reported in the literature . despite this , there is some evidence that tracheobronchitis may occur in individuals with a relatively lesser degree of host defense impairment . local damage to the airway wall such as occurs with prolonged mechanical ventilatory support , neoplastic infiltration , or nonfungal infection may also be a factor predisposing to fungal colonization and invasion . in 4 of our patients , the fungal infection of the tracheobronchial tree probably contributed significantly to the development of terminal respiratory failure . although recognition of the infection may not have altered the course of the underlying disease in some of our patients , in others identification and early treatment might have been life-saving . thus , culture and histologic examination of bronchoscopically identified tracheobronchial mucus plugs and necrotic material should be performed in all immunocompromised individuals . 
treatment of gram-negative bacteremia and septic shock with ha-1a human monoclonal antibody against endotoxin . a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . the ha-1a sepsis study group background . ha-1a is a human monoclonal igm antibody that binds specifically to the lipid a domain of endotoxin and prevents death in laboratory animals with gram-negative bacteremia and endotoxemia . methods . to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ha-1a , we conducted a randomized , double-blind trial in patients with sepsis and a presumed diagnosis of gram-negative infection . the patients received either a single 100-mg intravenous dose of ha-1a ( in 3.5 g of albumin ) or placebo ( 3.5 g of albumin ) . other interventions , including the administration of antibiotics and fluids , were not affected by the study protocol . results . of 543 patients with sepsis who were treated , 200 ( 37 percent ) had gram-negative bacteremia as proved by blood culture . for the patients with gram-negative bacteremia followed to death or day 28 , there were 45 deaths among the 92 recipients of placebo ( 49 percent ) and 32 deaths among the 105 recipients of ha-1a ( 30 percent ; p = 0.014 ) . for the patients with gram-negative bacteremia and shock at entry , there were 27 deaths among the 47 recipients of placebo ( 57 percent ) and 18 deaths among the 54 recipients of ha-1a ( 33 percent ; p = 0.017 ) . analyses that stratified according to the severity of illness at entry showed improved survival with ha-1a treatment in both severely ill and less severely ill patients . of the 196 patients with gram-negative bacteremia who were followed to hospital discharge or death , 45 of the 93 given placebo ( 48 percent ) were discharged alive , as compared with 65 of the 103 treated with ha-1a ( 63 percent ; p = 0.038 ) . no benefit of treatment with ha-1a was demonstrated in the 343 patients with sepsis who did not prove to have gram-negative bacteremia . for all 543 patients with sepsis who were treated , the mortality rate was 43 percent among the recipients of placebo and 39 percent among those given ha-1a ( p = 0.24 ) . all patients tolerated ha-1a well , and no anti-ha-1a antibodies were detected . conclusions . ha-1a is safe and effective for the treatment of patients with sepsis and gram-negative bacteremia . 
doppler systolic-diastolic ratios in pregnancies complicated by syphilis . maternal infection with syphilis can result in focal areas of vasculitis and , similarly , placental villitis and obliterative arteritis . we hypothesized that doppler systolic-diastolic ratios ( s/ds ) in pregnancies complicated by maternal syphilis infection might reflect an increased resistance to placental perfusion . doppler velocity waveform analysis was used to study the uterine and umbilical arteries in third-trimester pregnancies complicated by maternal syphilis infection . a control group of similarly studied normal pregnancies was used for comparison . statistically significant increases were found in the mean s/ds of both the uterine and umbilical arteries in the syphilis group compared with the normal group , indicating an increased resistance to perfusion of the placenta in pregnancies complicated by syphilis . this difference was even greater in association with the identification of spirochetes in the amniotic fluid by dark-field microscopy , indicating that the s/d results are related to the presence of intrauterine infection . serial s/ds in a small subgroup of patients correlated with the clinical courses , including an apparent acute vascular-resistance change associated with treatment , probably due to the jarisch-herxheimer reaction . because of these post-treatment vascular events , the pre-treatment s/d alone may have a limited clinical predictive value for treatment efficacy in congenital syphilis . 
upper genital tract isolates at delivery as predictors of post-cesarean infections among women receiving antibiotic prophylaxis . the introduction of antibiotic prophylaxis for cesarean delivery has decreased the risk of postpartum endometritis and wound infection , but factors that contribute to prophylaxis failure are not understood . to determine factors that might contribute to postpartum infections following antibiotic prophylaxis , we cultured amniotic fluid , decidua , and chorioamniotic membrane specimens for anaerobic and facultative bacteria and for genital mycoplasmas at cesarean delivery . women were assessed daily for the development of infections , and if endometritis developed , a protected endometrial culture was obtained . postpartum endometritis developed in 16 and wound infection in four of 102 women . infection rates were similar for women receiving cefotetan ( n = 50 ) or cefoxitin ( n = 52 ) for prophylaxis . the isolation of group b streptococcus ( p less than .001 ) or enterococcus faecalis ( p = .03 ) from the upper genital tract at delivery was significantly associated with postpartum endometritis . antibiotic-resistant organisms ( other than enterococci ) were recovered uncommonly at delivery or with postpartum infections . group b streptococcus was susceptible to the prophylactic agents used , suggesting that virulence factors other than antibiotic resistance are important for the development of postpartum endometritis . group b streptococcus , e faecalis , and bacteria associated with bacterial vaginosis were recovered from the endometrium at the time of postpartum endometritis . 
evaluation of two rapid group b streptococcal antigen tests in labor and delivery patients . two rapid group b streptococcal antigen tests were compared with nonselective blood agar culture in 1062 unselected patients admitted to labor and delivery . vaginal specimens taken from each patient on admission were used to perform each of two rapid tests and corresponding cultures . the rapid tests were the streptex latex agglutination assay and the equate strep b test , which uses a solid-phase immunoassay . overall , 105 patients ( 9.9 % ) had at least one positive culture . the sensitivities for the rapid tests were 15.1 % for streptex and 21.5 % for equate . specificities were 99.3 and 98.7 % , respectively . sensitivity was minimally increased in the setting of ruptured membranes for both tests . likewise , use of separate swabs for streaking the culture plate and performing the rapid test increased the sensitivity , but this was not significant for either test . in control experiments , the limit of sensitivity of both rapid tests was 5 x 10 ( 6 ) colony-forming units . we conclude that at present , these tests are not sensitive enough for routine use in this type of clinical setting . 
aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic factors and recovery of beta-lactamase producing bacteria from obstetric and gynecologic infection . specimens obtained from 736 patients with obstetric and gynecologic infections were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria . bacterial growth was present in 714 specimens . these included 53 specimens of infected fallopian tubes , 470 of infected endometrium , 94 of infected amniotic fluid , 57 of aspirates of cul-de-sacs in instances of pelvic inflammatory disease , 14 labial and vaginal abscesses and 26 of bartholyn 's cyst abscess . a total of 2,052 isolates ( 2.9 per specimen ) , 1,139 anaerobes ( 1.6 per specimen ) and 913 aerobic or facultative ( 1.3 per specimen ) were recovered . the most commonly isolated anaerobic bacteria was bacteroides species ( 566 isolates ) , which included bacteroides bivius ( 151 ) , bacteroides fragilis group ( 130 ) , bacteroides melaninogenicus group ( 110 ) and bacteroides ureolyticus ( 47 ) . others included an anaerobic gram-positive cocci ( 391 ) , clostridium species ( 48 ) and fusobacterium species ( 36 ) . the most frequently recovered aerobic and facultative bacteria were lactobacillus species ( 169 ) , escherichia coli ( 85 ) , neisseria gonorrhoeae ( 62 ) , staphylococcus aureus ( 59 ) and group b streptococcus ( 55 ) . three hundred and sixty-five ( 18 per cent ) of the isolates recovered from 276 ( 39 per cent ) patients were beta-lactamase producing organisms ( blpo ) ; 222 ( 61 per cent ) anaerobes and 143 ( 39 per cent ) aerobes or facultatives . the most common blpo were b. fragilis group , b. bivius , b. melaninogenicus , b. disiens , enterobacteriaceae and s. aureus . these data illustrate the polymicrobial nature and important role of blpo in obstetric and gynecologic infection . 
lyme disease : neurologic and ophthalmic manifestations . lyme disease is tick-borne infection which produces early and late manifestations in many organ systems . prominent symptoms and signs occur in skin , heart , joints and nervous system . many ocular and neuro-ophthalmic abnormalities recently have been attributed to lyme disease , but some cases have not been well established as direct sequelae . this review of the contemporary state of knowledge about lyme disease was undertaken so that more rigorous criteria can be applied in future diagnosis . 
improved results with combined donor-specific transfusion ( dst ) and sequential therapy protocol . a combined dst-sequential cya therapy protocol has been described that results in optimum graft survival for 1 - and 2-haplotype mismatched living related donor-recipient combinations . in addition to the excellent graft survival obtained through 4 years , lower prednisone and cya dosage levels are achieved with significantly decreased infection rates during the posttransplant period . 
topical vancomycin for the treatment of staphylococcus epidermidis and methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus conjunctivitis . staphylococcus aureus and staphylococcus epidermidis are organisms that frequently cause conjunctivitis or blepharoconjunctivitis . we describe a patient with methicillin-resistant s. aureus and s. epidermidis conjunctivitis who was treated successfully using an extemporaneously prepared topical ophthalmic solution of vancomycin hydrochloride 31 mg/ml . studies describing the preparation , stability , and comfort of this solution , as well as reports pertaining to efficacy , are reviewed . controlled clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of vancomycin ophthalmic solution have not yet been performed . 
drugs for treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis : comparative efficacy of agents and regimens . various agents are available for the treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis . imidazole agents ( clotrimazole , miconazole , butoconazole , and terconazole ) are preferred because of their greater efficacy , shorter treatment regimens , and ease of administration . although the various imidazole compounds are equally efficacious , different treatment schedules are recommended depending on clinical situations . additionally , different formulations are available that provide clinicians and patients with the opportunity to select the most appropriate agent . 
risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia after coronary artery bypass graft operations we attempted to determine risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia in patients undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft operation . we reviewed the microbiology and medical records for any patient with a sputum culture who had undergone a coronary artery bypass graft operation in 1988 to identify patients with pneumonia according to a standard clinical definition . we found 19 cases of pneumonia through our initial review ; complete medical records were found on 15 cases . gram-negative bacilli predominated as the most common etiologic agent causing pneumonia in this cohort . there were no clusters noted . mortality was 26.6 % . pneumonia occurred approximately 4 days after the operation . thirty-six controls were randomly selected from patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft operations in 1988 . logistic regression analysis revealed that a history of chronic obstructive lung disease , duration of more than 2 days of mechanical ventilation after operation but before diagnosis of pneumonia , and receipt of gastric acid inhibitors ( antacids or h2-blockers ) were independent risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia . only the last risk factor was amenable to intervention at the time of operation . 
diagnosis of poststernotomy infection : comparison of three means of assessment . of 737 adults undergoing cardiac operations through a median sternotomy over a 2-year period ( january 1988 to january 1990 ) , sternal-substernal space infection requiring mediastinal exploration developed in 8 . six of these patients as well as 18 additional patients were evaluated for possible poststernotomy wound infection by computed tomography ( 4 true positive , 4 false positive , 10 true negative , 2 false negative ) , indium-111 leukocyte scanning ( 5 true positive , 0 false positive , 18 true negative , 1 false negative ) , and epicardial pacer wire cultures ( 6 true positive , 1 false positive , 12 true negative , 0 false negative ) . on the basis of this experience it is suggested that in addition to computed tomography , indium-111 leukocyte scanning and epicardial pacer wire cultures may be useful in the diagnosis of poststernotomy deep wound infection . 
percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty following treated endocarditis in a patient with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis . a 36-year-old woman with congenital pulmonary valve stenosis developed the rare complication of endocarditis of the valve . after successful sterilization of the valve , the patient underwent percutaneous balloon pulmonic valvuloplasty at a later date . the procedure successfully reduced the peak pulmonary valve gradient from 94 to 45 mm hg . percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty is the procedure of choice for treatment of congenital pulmonary valvular stenosis , even in the unusual patient who has healed endocarditis of the pulmonary valve . 
balloon valvuloplasty for fungal endocarditis induced stenosis of a bioprosthetic tricuspid valve . palliative treatment was provided without complications by double balloon valvuloplasty of a stenotic porcine tricuspid valve in a patient with fungal endocarditis . with two 15 mm diameter valvulotomy balloons the peak tricuspid gradient decreased from 21 to 7 mm hg and valve area increased from 0.3 to 1.2 cm2 . after the procedure the patient clinically improved ; however , valve replacement was not performed as planned because the patient developed an intracranial hemorrhage . she subsequently died of complications of fungemia . the present report demonstrates the possible use of valvuloplasty as a palliative procedure in selected patients with valvular stenosis involved with endocarditis . 
use of the pediatric risk of mortality score to predict nosocomial infection in a pediatric intensive care unit . objective : to define infection rates in patients with pediatric risk of mortality ( prism ) scores greater than and less than 10 on admission to the pediatric icu ( picu ) . design : descriptive . setting : an 18-bed picu admitting patients of all ages except nonsurgical neonates ; within a 585-bed tertiary care pediatric hospital . patients : patients admitted to the picu from july 1987 to february 1988 inclusive . of 685 admitted , 480 were followed for greater than or equal to 72 hr . methods : the baseline state of the patients on admission was determined by a designated intensivist using the prism score . other variables included age , length of stay , and hospital day of onset of infection . infections were identified by a designated intensivist who undertook prospective daily bedside observation , chart , radiographic , and laboratory review . measurements and main results : equal portions of patients had prism scores less than and greater than 10 . significantly more infections occurred in the high prism population ( 10.8 % vs. 3.4 % , p less than .001 ) . this association held through age , service , and length of stay . sensitivity , specificity , positive and negative predictive values of a prism score greater than 10 were 75 % , 53 % , 11 % , and 97 % , respectively . bacteremias accounted for 36 % of infections , skin/eye/drain site 22 % , respiratory 16 % , wound 15 % , and urine 9 % . the most prevalent organisms were coagulase-negative staphylococci ( 32 % ) , pseudomonas aeruginosa ( 23 % ) , candida sp . ( 20 % ) , and s. aureus ( 9 % ) . conclusions : a prism score greater than 10 on picu admission characterizes a population within the picu at increased risk of infection . however , 93 % of patients did not develop infection and thus , a negative predictive value of 97 % yields little additional information . 
reliability of the bronchoscopic protected catheter brush in the diagnosis of pneumonia in mechanically ventilated patients . objective : to assess the usefulness of the telescoping plugged catheter in the diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia . design : prospective study . patients : a total of 103 ventilated patients with suspected pneumonia were prospectively studied over 20 months . results : the quantitative cultures of the protected brush specimen detected pulmonary bacterial infection ( greater than 10 ( 3 ) cfu/ml ) in 49 ( 47.5 % ) patients . subsequent follow-up confirmed pneumonia in 41 patients ; in only one patient was a positive protected brush specimen culture established as a false-positive result . there were 54 patients with less than 10 ( 3 ) cfu/ml and the diagnosis was excluded in 36 of them . we identified eight patients with false-negative protected brush specimen cultures . the results obtained by this technique allowed us to modify treatment in 49 ( 47.5 % ) patients . conclusions : the telescoping plugged catheter demonstrated significant bacterial infection in a relatively small proportion of patients in whom bacterial lung infection was suspected . this technique can be safely performed and is a sensitive and specific method to establish the cause of pneumonia , thus allowing specific treatment and the avoidance of inappropriate antibiotic therapy . 
systemic and muscle oxygen uptake/delivery after dopexamine infusion in endotoxic dogs background and methods : this study was designed to test whether dopexamine , a dopaminergic and beta 2-adrenergic agonist , would a ) increase systemic oxygen delivery ( do2 ) in endotoxic dogs , and b ) interfere with the ability of resting skeletal muscle to extract oxygen . there were three treatment groups ( n = 6 in each group ) : control , endotoxin alone ( e ) 4 mg/kg iv , and endotoxin + dopexamine ( e + d ) 12 micrograms/kg . min . data were analyzed between and within groups by split-plot analysis of variance with significance of identified differences tested post hoc by duncan 's multiple range test . donor rbc and dextran were used after endotoxin to maintain adequate perfusion pressures , with hct kept near 40 % . blood flow to left hindlimb muscles was decreased in controlled steps of 15 min each after stabilization . results : in e group , cardiac output ( qt ) , mean arterial pressure ( map ) , systemic do2 , and oxygen uptake ( vo2 ) decreased despite blood volume expansion . in e + d group with similar volume expansion , dopexamine maintained qt , systemic do2 , and vo2 near the control levels , although map and systemic vascular resistance were reduced . in comparison with control subjects , endotoxin increased critical do2 in the isolated limb muscles from 4.6 to 7 . ml/kg . min and decreased critical oxygen extraction from 81 % to 68 % . the pressure/flow relationship in the limb became flattened , indicating loss of vascular reactivity . in the e + d group , there was no further change in the pressure/flow curve nor in the critical oxygen extraction level . conclusions : dopexamine provided hemodynamic support for endotoxic dogs , thereby increasing total do2 and vo2 , while not altering oxygen extraction in the muscle . 
comparative study of legionella pneumophila and other nosocomial-acquired pneumonias . we studied , in a prospective way , the characteristics of definitively diagnosed nosocomially acquired pneumonias in our hospital over 36 months . out of 55 cases , 27 were due to legionella pneumophila and 28 to other , non-legionella bacteria . the cases of legionellosis concentrated in july , august , and december . the only risk factors that showed significant differences ( p less than 0.05 ) were general anesthesia and surgery and immunosuppressive disease , which were more frequent in the non-legionella group , as were chronic liver disease and lowering of consciousness level . the absence of severe underlying disease , chronic or not , was uncommon in both groups , but more frequent in the legionella group . we observed no differences in the clinical features of the two groups . mean values of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and total bilirubin were higher ( p less than 0.05 ) in the non-legionella group . the only x-ray data that showed significant difference were pleural effusion , more frequent in the non-legionella group ( p less than 0.02 ) . the mortality rate of legionellosis was 14.6 percent compared to 35.7 percent for the non-legionella group ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that a sure differential diagnosis based on clinical , roentgenographic and analytical features of both groups is not possible . the relatively low mortality rate of the legionella group , when compared to other series of nosocomial legionellosis , could be due to the standard use of erythromycin in the therapeutic approach to nosocomial-acquired pneumonia in our hospital . 
adenosine deaminase in the diagnosis of tuberculous pleural effusions . a report of 218 patients and review of the literature . the activity of adenosine deaminase in the pleural fluid of 218 consecutive patients was studied . according to the etiology of exudative pleural effusions , the patients were divided into the following five groups : ( 1 ) tuberculosis ; ( 2 ) lung cancer ; ( 3 ) pneumonias ; ( 4 ) miscellaneous ; and ( 5 ) idiopathic . patients with pleural tuberculosis presented significantly higher ada activity than patients with nontuberculous pleural effusions ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the results indicated that in a population with a relatively high prevalence of tuberculosis , the analysis of ada levels in pleural effusions constitutes a useful marker for the diagnosis which , in addition , can be made quickly and cheaply . additionally , a comprehensive review of the literature on the role of ada in the diagnosis of tuberculous pleural effusions is presented . 
utility of bronchoscopic sampling techniques for cryptococcal disease in aids . although cryptococcal pneumonia is a well recognized complication of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , optimal diagnostic approaches remain to be defined . during a 32-month period ( october 1984 to june 1987 ) , 11 patients were diagnosed with cp at our institution . the diagnosis was established in all 11 patients from specimens obtained via fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( ten ) and/or double-lumen catheter lavage ( one ) . direct stains of sedimented bronchoalveolar lavage were positive for organisms characteristic of cryptococcus neoformans in nine of 11 patients . transbronchial biopsies were positive ( special histologic stains ) in six of eight patients ; bronchial washings were positive ( direct smear ) in seven of ten patients , the bronchial brushings were positive on stain in six of nine patients , and in one patient , a wang transbronchial needle aspirate was positive on stain . fungal cultures were positive on the bal in seven of 11 patients , and on the bronchial washings in four of ten patients ; the tbbx culture samples were all negative ( zero of three ) . the serum cryptococcal antigen titer was elevated ( median = 1:1024 ) in all eight patients in which it was assayed . our data suggest that bal and bronchial washings have a combined sensitivity on smear equal to that of tbbx and superior to that of tbbx fungal culture . the tbbx does not appear to be necessary in this setting . in addition , an elevated serum cryptococcal antigen titer appears to be an important adjunct in the evaluation of pulmonary infiltrates in aids . 
endobronchial actinomycosis simulating bronchogenic carcinoma . diagnosis by bronchial biopsy . five cases of actinomycosis of the main bronchi or trachea which were suggestive clinically of bronchogenic carcinoma are described . in four patients the correct diagnosis was made by a bronchial biopsy or wash , or both . three of them recovered following antibiotic treatment , and one died a few days after bronchoscopy . in one case the actinomyces were found in the bronchial wash retrospectively following diagnosis of pulmonary actinomycosis in the lobectomy specimen . a concomitant endobronchial lipoma was found in one of the patients . the diagnosis of pulmonary actinomycosis by bronchial biopsy may save the patient major surgical intervention . 
gram-negative infection increases noninsulin-mediated glucose disposal . peripheral glucose uptake can occur by either insulin - or noninsulin-mediated mechanisms , and the two pathways appear to be regulated independently . using the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique , we have previously demonstrated that sepsis induces whole body insulin resistance . the purpose of the present study was to determine whether infection also alters noninsulin-mediated glucose uptake ( nimgu ) and , if so , which tissues are affected . studies were performed in chronically catheterized conscious rats under either basal ( 6 mm glucose , 30 microu/ml insulin ) or insulinopenic conditions to determine nimgu . hypermetabolic sepsis was induced by sc injections of live escherichia coli , and 24 h later a tracer amount of [ u-14c ] deoxy-2-glucose was injected for the determination of the in vivo glucose metabolic rate ( rg ) in selected tissues . our results indicate that nimgu is the predominant route of glucose disposal in both septic and nonseptic rats , accounting for 79-83 % of the total rate of glucose disposal . because the rate of whole body glucose disposal was increased by sepsis , the absolute rate of nimgu was 46 % higher in septic rats than in nonseptic animals . this increase was the result of the elevated rg in liver , spleen , ileum , and lung . sepsis also increased whole body insulin-mediated glucose uptake by 88 % under basal conditions , and this was due to an enhanced glucose uptake by muscle and skin . in insulinopenic animals in which the plasma glucose concentration was elevated to 17 mm , whole body glucose disposal increased by 107 % in nonseptic animals , but by only 32 % in septic rats . the hyperglycemic-induced increment in organ rg was smaller in all tissues examined from septic animals . however , the absolute rate of whole body and tissue glucose utilization was not different between the two groups . these results indicate that gram-negative infection increases whole body nimgu , which results from an enhanced rate of glucose utilization by tissues rich in mononuclear phagocytes , including the liver , spleen , ileum , and lung , but not by muscle . 
pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis . advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis have occurred primarily through the use of experimental animal models . these models have proven to be particularly valuable in experimental bacterial meningitis , focusing on the bacterial virulence factors responsible for the initiation of infections , cns invasion , and induction of sas inflammation . recent studies have examined the formation of host inflammatory cytokines in response to these virulence factors . these cytokines may be responsible for many of the pathophysiologic consequences of bacterial meningitis ( eg . increased bbb permeability , cerebral edema , and increased intracranial pressure ) . meningitis due to c. neoformans occurs most commonly in patients with defects in cell-mediated immunity ( eg , aids ) , and the depletion of t helper cells in aids patients may allow unrestricted cryptococcal growth . viral meningitis is an illness of low prevalence when compared with the overall occurrence of viral infections at other sites . cns infection usually occurs by means of traversal across barriers that normally exclude viral invasion of the cns , primarily through hematogenous dissemination from initial sites of infection . these advances in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of bacterial , fungal , and viral meningitis may lead to the development of innovative treatment strategies for these disorders . 
bacterial meningitis in neonates and children . a high index of suspicion of meningitis is needed when evaluating neonates and young infants because clinical findings can be minimal and are often subtle and nonspecific . analysis of the csf constitutes the most effective method to document meningeal bacterial infection , although overlap with normal csf values can occur , especially in newborns and very young infants . the introduction of highly active third-generation cephalosporins ( ceftriaxone , cefotaxime ) and their safety and efficacy in treating a broad array of bacterial pathogens that cause meningitis in all age groups has simplified selection of initial antibiotic therapy . in neonates , however , conventional antibiotic therapy with ampicillin and an aminoglycoside is appropriate because of its proven record of safety and efficacy , and because routine use of cephalosporins in the hospital nursery could lead to selection of resistant strains among gram-negative enteric bacilli . despite the availability of modern intensive care management of infants and children with bacterial meningitis and the advent of potent antibiotics , case fatality rates and morbidity remain high . because of this , recent research has focused on the complex interaction between bacteria and the host and on means to attenuate the meningeal inflammatory response . the clinical benefits demonstrated recently with the use of dexamethasone therapy in infants and children with bacterial meningitis underscore the importance of anti-inflammatory therapy to reduce audiologic and neurologic sequelae . future studies of new methods to modulate meningeal inflammation such as the use of monoclonal antibodies directed against cytokines or of agents that interfere with leukocyte-endothelial interactions are indicated . the implication of routine h. influenzae type b immunization in young infants with the conjugated vaccines and optimal intrapartum prophylaxis against group b streptococcal disease in newborns will have an important impact on the incidence of meningitis in infants and children . 
bacterial meningitis in adults . bacterial meningitis continues to be an important cause of morbidity and mortality despite the availability of effective bactericidal antibiotics . penicillin or ampicillin remains the drug of choice for meningitis caused by streptococcus pneumoniae and neisseria meningitidis . the third generation cephalosporins have revolutionized the treatment of gram-negative meningitis . future therapy for bacterial meningitis will use recent developments in the understanding of pathogenic and pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying this disease . 
general principles of therapy of pyogenic meningitis . in bacterial meningitis , several pharmacodynamic factors determine therapeutic success-when defined as sterilization of the csf : ( 1 ) local host defense deficits in the cns require the use of bactericidal antibiotics to sterilize the csf . ( 2 ) csf antibiotic concentrations that are at least 10-fold above the mbc are necessary for maximal bactericidal activity . protein binding , low ph , and slow bacterial growth rates are among the factors that may explain the high antibiotic concentrations necessary in vivo . ( 3 ) high csf peak concentrations that lead to rapid bacterial killing appear more important than prolonged suprainhibitory concentrations , probably because very low residual levels in the csf prevent bacterial regrowth , even during relatively long dosing intervals . ( 4 ) penetration of antibiotics into the csf is significantly impaired by the blood-brain barrier and thus , very high serum levels are necessary to achieve the csf concentrations required for optimal bactericidal activity . beyond these principles , recent data suggests that rapid lytic killing of bacteria in the csf may have harmful effects on the brain because of the release of biologically active products from the lysed bacteria . since rapid csf sterilization remains a key therapeutic goal , the harmful consequences of bacterial lysis present a major challenge in the therapy of bacterial meningitis . currently , dexamethasone represents that only clinically beneficial approach to reduce the harmful effects of bacterial lysis , and novel approaches are required to improve the outcome of this serious infection . 
spirochetal infection of the central nervous system . four spirochetal diseases frequently involve the central nervous system : syphilis , leptospirosis , relapsing fever , and lyme borreliosis . in particular , syphilis and lyme borreliosis are increasing problems . during the spirochetemic phase there is seeding of the nervous system . after a quiescent latent period , there may be late disease flareups producing a variety of neurologic syndromes . cerebrospinal fluid examination is very helpful in these infections . 
tuberculous meningitis . tuberculous meningitis is an uncommon but potentially devastating form of tuberculosis . current antituberculous drugs are highly effective when treatment is initiated early , before the onset of altered mentation or focal neurologic deficits . because the clinical outcome depends greatly on the stage at which therapy is initiated , early recognition is of paramount importance . patients with the meningoencephalitis syndrome and csf findings of low glucose levels , elevated protein levels , and pleocytosis should be treated immediately if there is evidence of tb elsewhere in the body , or if prompt evaluation fails to establish an alternative diagnosis . examination of csf is the best diagnostic approach ; with sufficient diligence , serial afb smears and cultures will usually yield positive results , even days after therapy has been started . the ct scan is an important and highly effective tool for the diagnosis and management of patients with tbm . in a patient with compatible clinical features , the combination of basilar meningeal enhancement and any degree of hydrocephalus is strongly suggestive of the diagnosis of tbm . serial evaluation by ct scanning is useful for following the course of hydrocephalus and tuberculoma , particularly in reference to the need for , or response to , adjunctive therapy with corticosteroids and surgery . the decision to administer corticosteroids should be based on careful correlation of the clinical and radiographic features of the case . surgical shunting should be considered early in the patient with hydrocephalus and symptoms of raised intracranial pressure . tuberculomas are best treated medically , often in conjunction with corticosteroids where cerebral edema is believed to contribute to neurologic decline . the recommended chemotherapy regimen is isoniazid and rifampin in all patients , together with pyrazinamide for the first 2 months . 
fungal meningitis . fungal meningitis tends to be a subacute or chronic process ; however , it may be just as lethal as bacterial meningitis if untreated . there are many similarities between the pathogenic fungi . most of the fungi are aerosolized and inhaled , and initiate a primary pulmonary infection which is usually self-limited . hematogenous dissemination may follow the initial infection , with subsequent involvement of the cns . rarely , trauma or local extension provides the route to cns infection . the host is frequently , although not always , immunosuppressed . the hyphae of molds generally cause focal disease with hemorrhagic necrosis secondary to vascular thrombosis . the yeasts tend to cause a more diffuse process with the base of the brain being primarily affected , such that hydrocephalus is seen as a frequent complication of chronic disease . diagnosis may be difficult , as the csf may be normal , with negative smears and sterile cultures , although more often there is at least one abnormality indicating disease . serologies ( if available , depending on the fungus ) may point towards the proper diagnosis , as may a careful travel history . currently , amphotericin b is still the drug of choice in most situations ; however , the newer azole antifungal agents offer great promise , especially in the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis . the precise role of such agents will remain unclear until appropriate large-scale studies of their effectiveness have been completed . the treatment of the unusual cns mycoses will continue to be based on clinical experience , and reports of the use of new azoles in these diseases need to be critically evaluated . 
treatment of beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis with cefaclor or penicillin . efficacy and interaction with beta-lactamase-producing organisms in the pharynx . the recommended treatment for group a beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis has continued to be penicillin given in parenteral or oral form . treatment failures , as determined by the continued presence of the streptococcal organism in the pharynx , however , do occur in 6 % to 25 % of patients treated with penicillin . furthermore , beta-lactamase produced by other bacteria in the pharynx could potentially inactivate the penicillin , resulting in increased treatment failures or infection relapses . a study was undertaken to compare the efficacy of cefaclor , which is relatively resistant to inactivation by beta-lactamase , with penicillin for eradicating the group a beta-hemolytic streptococcal organism from the throats of 93 patients with pharyngitis . additionally , extensive cultures for potential beta-lactamase-producing organisms were conducted on 37 patients ; 27 % of these had one or more pharyngeal organisms that were producing beta-lactamase . no statistically significant difference was found between the clinical responses or the bacteriological cure rates of those treated with cefaclor and those treated with penicillin when stratified by the presence or absence of beta-lactamase-producing organisms . the prevalence of beta-lactamase-producing organisms in the pharynx , however , was increased after treatment with penicillin , whereas no change was noted following treatment with cefaclor . 
terconazole for the treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis . a double-blind , randomized trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of terconazole for vulvovaginal candidiasis . treatment consisted of daily intravaginal application of one of the following regimens : 80-mg terconazole suppositories for 3 days , miconazole nitrate suppositories for 7 days or placebo suppositories for 7 days . the terconazole and miconazole nitrate groups had significantly higher therapeutic cure rates than did the placebo group . evaluation of vaginal secretions with microscopic examination showed no evidence of leukocyte proliferation . proline aminopeptidase activity , present in patients who have bacterial vaginosis , could not be detected in the vaginal secretions from patients with yeast vulvovaginitis . 
role of cephamycins in obstetrics and gynecology . infections of the female upper genital tract are usually polymicrobic , often involving mixed aerobic ( facultative ) and anaerobic bacteria . optimal therapy provides coverage against aerobes ( both gram positive and gram negative and especially the enterobacteriaceae ) and anaerobes ( especially the beta-lactamase-producing gram-negative species , such as bacteroides ) . a variety of antibiotics provide the broad spectrum of activity needed for these infections , including clindamycin plus an aminoglycoside , cephalosporins and cephamycins , imipenem , extended-spectrum penicillins and the beta-lactam agents combined with a beta-lactamase inhibitor . the cephamycins -- cefoxitin , cefotetan and cefmetazole -- have been shown to have a high rate of clinical efficacy and bacteriologic response . the cephalosporins are usually used for prophylaxis at the time of obstetric and gynecologic surgery . the cephamycins have recently undergone extensive evaluation for prophylaxis and have demonstrated comparable microbiologic and clinical efficacy . a pharmacokinetic comparison of cefoxitin , cefotetan and cefmetazole points to cefmetazole as a cost-effective alternative to cefoxitin and cefotetan for both prophylaxis and treatment of pelvic infections . 
role of new cephamycins in the management of obstetric and gynecologic infections . the results of in vitro and in vivo studies of cefmetazole , a second-generation cephamycin , were reviewed . cefmetazole 's spectrum of activity includes clinical coverage of many enterobacteriaceae , staphylococci , streptococci , haemophilus species , pathogenic neisseria organisms , moraxella ( branhamella ) catarrhalis and anaerobic bacteria . cefmetazole is generally two to eight times more potent than cefoxitin against organisms within their spectra and is most active against staphylococci ( minimal inhibitory concentration90 = 2.0 micrograms/ml ) . methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus strains are more susceptible to cefmetazole , alone or in combination with fosfomycin , than to any other cephamycins , and cefmetazole is remarkably resistant to the beta-lactamases produced by aerobic and anaerobic bacteria . the incidence of adverse drug reactions is low ( 8.8 % in the united states , 2.2 % in japan ) , and the drug has been demonstrated to have cost-containment potential . 
the challenge of prophylaxis in cesarean section in the 1990s . physicians have evaluated the role of antibiotics in the prevention of perioperative infections since these drugs were discovered , but not until it was determined that antibiotics prevented staphylococcal wound infections in the animal model did surgeons consider their use for prophylaxis . in the 1970s , improved techniques in isolating and identifying anaerobic microorganisms and the unacceptably high incidence of infection-related complications convinced obstetricians to study , and ultimately accept , the use of perioperative antibiotic administration to prevent these infections . recent progress has included refinement of the guidelines for patient selection and drug regimens . although a single dose of an antibiotic given to the patient undergoing primary cesarean section has been demonstrated to be effective prophylaxis when administered after clamping the umbilical cord , this practice has not been widely accepted . with the discovery of cephamycins the role of these broad-spectrum antibiotics in obstetric and gynecologic surgery was investigated . one of the studies compared the efficacy of cefmetazole with that of cefotetan in preventing post-cesarean section infection . eighteen patients in each group received a 2-g dose of one of the two drugs when the umbilical cord was clamped . predetermined elevations in temperature were used to evaluate the presence of ensuing infections . four subjects in each group developed some type of morbidity . postoperative complications included wound infection , endometritis , bladder infection and cellulitis . cefmetazole and cefotetan seemed equally effective in preventing post-cesarean section infections . 
cefmetazole and cefonicid . comparative efficacy and safety in preventing postoperative infections after vaginal and abdominal hysterectomy . a single 1-g dose of cefmetazole was compared with a single 1-g dose of cefonicid for prophylaxis in vaginal and abdominal hysterectomy to determine their efficacy and safety . the antibiotics were administered intramuscularly 15-90 minutes before the incision was made . cefmetazole and cefonicid had similar activity against most of the aerobic organisms recovered , but cefmetazole was significantly more active against anaerobic gram-negative microorganisms . the patterns of regrowth of vaginal flora were similar in the two treatment groups . patient demographic characteristics and surgical procedures were similar in both groups . the difference in primary prophylactic failure ( e.g. , cuff cellulitis ) with the two study drugs ( 1 of 53 [ 1.9 % ] with cefmetazole and 2 of 28 [ 7.1 % ] with cefonicid ) did not reach statistical significance , and the results were similar for the two routes of hysterectomy . cefmetazole , at a dose of 1 g intramuscularly preoperatively , is a safe and effective agent for prophylaxis during hysterectomy . 
therapeutic dilemmas in the treatment of pelvic infections . the identification of pathogens and the early recognition of pelvic infections in patients after hysterectomy , cesarean delivery and vaginal delivery were analyzed . criteria for administering cephamycin therapy were established , as were guidelines for evaluating the progress of the infection . in a comparative study of the safety and efficacy of cefmetazole and cefoxitin in 145 hospitalized patients with pelvic infections there were no significant differences between either the bacteriologic or clinical cure rates of the two antibiotics . both were efficacious and safe for the treatment of obstetric-gynecologic soft tissue infections . 
improved detection of rotavirus shedding by polymerase chain reaction . to improve identification of children excreting rotavirus a method for the amplification of rotavirus rna by the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) was developed . the assay was compared with a solid-phase enzyme immunoassay in the detection of rotavirus shedding by infants in hospital during the winter peak of rotavirus infections . forty children were studied in an intermediate care unit after transfer from intensive care units . only two were admitted primarily because of diarrhoea ; the other thirty-eight were admitted for management of various other disorders . rotavirus shedding was detected by enzyme immunoassay in twenty of the infants , and nine of these ( aged 1 week to 8 months ) remained in hospital for more than 5 days after the initial detection of rotavirus and could be studied long term . of 103 faecal samples from the nine infants , 60 ( 58 % ) contained rotavirus rna detected by reverse-transcriptase ( rt ) / pcr , whereas only 37 ( 36 % ) were positive for rotavirus antigen by the immunoassay ( chi 2 = 10.3 , p less than 0.002 ) . the geometric mean time of rotavirus shedding was 9.5 ( range 1-19 ) days as detected by rt/pcr and 5.7 ( range 1-17 ) days by the immunoassay ( p less than 0.018 ) . in five of the nine children , rt/pcr detected rotavirus shedding for 2-7 days longer than the immunoassay and in four children rt/pcr was positive 1 or more days before rotavirus antigen was detected . further studies should attempt to find out whether infected infants are capable of spreading wild-type virus during periods when they are not shedding antigen as detectable by enzyme immunoassay . 
changes in the differential white blood cell count in screening for group b streptococcal sepsis . we compared several previously defined scoring systems using white blood cell indices as part of a retrospective evaluation of infants with early onset group b streptococcal ( gbs ) sepsis . nineteen newborns were diagnosed with gbs sepsis between january , 1988 , and april , 1990 . case controls ( n = 33 ) were selected from patients admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit for suspected sepsis . complete blood counts obtained at admission and between 12 and 24 hours of age were reviewed . there was a significant change in the ratio of immature to total neutrophils in the gbs group over time . scoring systems for neonatal sepsis by manroe et al. , rodwell et al . and spector et al . had poor sensitivity , specificity , positive predictive value and negative predictive value when initial white blood cell count criteria were used , but scoring systems by manroe and rodwell were 100 % sensitive and had 100 % negative predictive value when applied to the repeat white blood cell count . we conclude that a single early complete blood count may not be an adequate screening tool for early onset gbs sepsis and should not be used to rule out infection . optimal screening for gbs sepsis requires a repeat complete blood count within the first 24 hours of age . 
sexually transmitted viral disease in women . during the past decade , the incidence of sexually transmitted viral diseases has increased dramatically . in many cases , diagnosis is difficult , consequences are severe , and curative therapy is not available at present . in this article , drs peaceman and gonik review current evidence about sexual transmission of viruses and discuss the latest methods of diagnosis , management , and prevention . 
klebsiella pneumonia in the modern era : clinicoradiographic correlations . a classic clinical and radiographic picture of klebsiella pneumonia has emerged in the literature . patients are typically male , older than 48 years , and have a history of chronic alcoholism . the majority of these pneumonias are community acquired . bulging interlobar fissures and cavitation are radiographic findings said to be distinctive for klebsiella pneumonia . we prospectively studied 15 cases of bacteremically proven klebsiella pneumonia and found clinical and radiographic features strikingly different from those described in the literature . immunosuppression ( from corticosteroids , cytotoxic chemotherapy , neutropenia , hematologic malignancy , and transplantation ) now rivals alcoholism as the primary risk factor . cases tended to be nosocomial rather than community acquired . neither bulging interlobar fissure nor cavitation was seen in any case . the right upper lobe was involved in 11 of our 15 cases . pneumonia due to klebsiella oxytoca was more likely to be isolated from patients with bilateral infiltrates , while klebsiella pneumoniae was more likely in patients with unilateral infiltrates . 
adenotonsillectomy in children with sickle cell disease . the pediatric patient with sickle cell disease risks having a vasoocclusive episode during adenotonsillectomy under general anesthesia . with proper patient selection and appropriate perioperative management , adenotonsillectomy can be accomplished safely in children with sickle cell disease . we review the management of 10 children with sickle hemoglobinopathies who had adenotonsillectomy . indications for surgery were recurrent streptococcal infections in four and obstructive sleep apnea in six of these children . no complications resulted from any of these procedures , and the mean length of postoperative hospitalization was 2.4 days . the principal feature of preoperative management was the transfusion of red blood cells to suppress the patient 's endogenous erythropoiesis and to reduce the concentration of sickle cell hemoglobin to less than 30 % . though a prospective , multi-institutional clinical trial will ultimately be required to settle the issue of the safest preoperative management of children with sickle cell disease , balancing the risks of transfusion-related complications against anesthesia-related complications , our experience supports the operative safety of hypertransfusion therapy in children with sickle cell disease . 
reactional states in hansen 's disease : practical aspects of emergency management . hansen 's disease ( leprosy ) , though not a common condition in the united states , can be found in some localities among patients who come to the emergency room for treatment . hansen 's disease ( hd ) is a chronic systemic infectious granulomatous disease involving principally the skin , mucosa , nerves , and eyes . the causative organism , mycobacterium leprae , is neither highly contagious nor aggressive , but rapid alterations in the immunologic response to m leprae in affected tissues can result in acute exacerbations termed " reactions . " since most of the symptoms and morbidity in hd are a consequence of these reactional states , they must be recognized and treated early to prevent permanent sequelae , especially neurologic and ophthalmologic . drug therapy , physical therapy , and sometimes surgery all play a role in minimizing the injury caused by reactions . 
preventing group b streptococcal infection in newborns . group b streptococci , commonly found in the maternal gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts , can be transmitted to the neonate at the time of rupture of membranes and during delivery . current management strategies include early detection of group b streptococcal carriers and the administration of intrapartum prophylactic antibiotics to prevent maternal fetal transmission . several tests are now available to rapidly identify group b streptococcal carriers . physicians should be able to recognize patients at high risk for colonization and the situations in which prophylactic antibiotics should be employed . proper use of antibiotics during labor can eliminate group b streptococcal sepsis in neonates . early group b streptococcal meningitis carries a mortality rate of almost 50 percent , despite medical support from neonatal intensive care units . 
cytokines and glucocorticoids in the regulation of the " hepato-skeletal muscle axis " in sepsis . sepsis results in muscle catabolism and peripheral release of amino acids with a concomitant uptake of amino acids in liver and acute-phase protein synthesis . in addition , there appears to be a cytokine-induced process that blocks muscle amino acid uptake in sepsis , further diverting amino acids from the periphery to the liver . in this article , evidence that cytokines and glucocorticoids play an important role in the regulation of hepatic and muscle protein metabolism during sepsis is presented . 
germfree animals and technics in surgical research . germfree animals have been reared to a size , weight , and age permitting the performance of major surgical procedures and the pursuit of a variety of surgical research problems . germfree dogs have been maintained in the isolator system through three generations , indicating that life , reproduction , and growth are all possible in the absence of microbial contamination . the value of the germfree approach to surgical problems has been utilized in studies of a variety of gastrointestinal problems , shock , cancer , immunology , burns , wound healing , and in direct patient application . patients have been maintained in isolator environments for prevention of infection , for operative procedures , for treatment of extensive burns , and for management of immune-suppressed individuals . we conclude that germfree animals and germfree technics provide a valuable addition to the armamentarium of the surgeon in both research and clinical applications . 
an outbreak of tuberculosis in a shelter for homeless men . a description of its evolution and control . an outbreak of tuberculosis at a shelter for homeless men was studied in detail to further the understanding of the epidemiology of tuberculosis in this setting . the shelter provides evening accommodations for men aged 50 yr and older . the capacity is approximately 200 clients , and the client pool is approximately 1,000 men/yr . during a 6-wk period in december 1986 and january 1987 , seven cases of tuberculosis were diagnosed in shelter clients . nine cases were reported in clients during the preceding 12 months , and four cases in the year previous to that . the majority of outbreak cases were pulmonary tuberculosis , sputum smear positive . drug resistance was rare . phage typing of 15 mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates revealed one predominant type and four other types . the goals of the control plan ( and the steps taken to achieve them ) were to render known infectious cases noninfectious ( directly observed therapy ) ; to find undiagnosed infectious cases ( repetitive mass screenings ) ; to protect exposed clients ( repetitive tuberculin skin testing and isoniazid preventive therapy ) ; and to make the shelter environment safe ( exclude infectious , noncompliant clients and improve the shelter 's ventilation system ) . implementation of this plan rapidly terminated the outbreak ; following the first mass screening in january 1987 , at which six asymptomatic cases were detected , only five additional cases occurred in shelter clients during a 2-yr period of follow-up . the investigation suggested that the outbreak evolved during 1986 as a result of the presence at the shelter of an increasing number of men with undiagnosed infectious pulmonary tuberculosis . 
early post-treatment with pentoxifylline or dibutyryl camp attenuates escherichia coli-induced acute lung injury in guinea pigs . we examined effects of early post-treatment with the methylxanthine pentoxifylline ( ptxf ) , or the cell-permeable adenosine 3 ' , 5 ' - cyclic monophosphate ( camp ) analog dibutyryl camp ( db-camp ) on escherichia-coli-induced acute lung injury in guinea pigs . acute lung injury was assessed by measurements of lung water ( lung wet/dry weight ratio ; w/d ratio ) , the concentration ratio of 125i-albumin in bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluid and lung tissue compared with plasma ( albumin index ; bal-ai or tissue-ai ) , and total differential leukocyte count in bal fluid . mean arterial pressure ( pa ) and peripheral wbc counts were monitored continuously over the 8-h experiment . septicemia was induced by a bolus injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) / kg live e. coli . thirty minutes later the animals received a bolus injection followed by continuous infusion of ptxf ( 20 mg/kg + 20 mg/kg/h ; n = 8 ) or db-camp ( 2 mg/kg + 2 mg/kg/h ; n = 8 ) or saline ( septic control ; n = 8 ) . nonseptic control groups were also studied . the lung w/d ratio , bal-ai , lung tissue-ai , and bal leukocyte count increased significantly in the septic control group . the ptxf-septic and db-camp-septic groups showed no significant increase in lung w/d ratio , bal-ai , and lung tissue-ai . however , there was no difference in bal total and differential leukocyte count as compared with the septic control group . ptxf and db-camp had no effect on e. coli-induced changes in peripheral wbc count and pa . comparison in vitro experiments demonstrated that ptxf and db-camp inhibited the endotoxin-induced ( e. coli ) chemiluminescent response of isolated guinea-pig polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmn ) . 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis versus invasive pulmonary aspergillosis : two cases with unusual pathologic findings and review of the literature . two brothers simultaneously exposed to moldy hay , who developed differing forms of aspergillus-related lung disease , are presented . patient 1 developed a true case of hypersensitivity lung disease , whereas his brother developed invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage eosinophilia and unusual pathologic features including tissue eosinophilia . the possible overlap between hypersensitivity pneumonitis and invasive aspergillosis in the immunocompetent host is discussed . 
culture-positive allergic fungal sinusitis . allergic aspergillus sinusitis is a well-defined clinical and histologic entity , although surprisingly few reported cases have yielded any fungal growth on culture . taking advantage of recent changes in the identification and classification of certain groups of fungi , we were able to identify a specific fungal organism in 19 of 22 consecutive patients with a histologic diagnosis of allergic fungal sinusitis over the past 2 1/2 years . aspergillus was found in only one patient , while an organism in the family of dematiaceous fungi was found in 18 patients . of these patients , the genus bipolaris was the most commonly represented , while exserohilum , curvularia , and alternaria species were seen with less frequency . thus , it appears that aspergillus may not be the most common etiologic agent in allergic " aspergillus " sinusitis . allergic fungal sinusitis is not unusual and its incidence may be increasing . on initial clinical evaluation it may be easily mistaken for malignancy or invasive fungal disease with the potential for overly aggressive treatment . preoperative suspicion of allergic fungal sinusitis based on clinical and roentgenographic findings along with careful communication with the mycology laboratory about the possibility of dematiaceous fungal growth are necessary for proper diagnosis . 
role of prophylactic antibiotics in uncontaminated neck dissections . the use of perioperative prophylactic antibiotics in uncontaminated head and neck surgery remains controversial . we performed a retrospective analysis of 192 patients undergoing uncontaminated neck dissections from 1976 to 1989 . wound infection developed in 10 % ( 10/99 ) of patients who did not receive antibiotics , while only three ( 3.3 % ) of 93 patients who received antibiotics developed infections . this difference was not statistically significant . we correlated the use of flaps , length of surgery , prior radiation treatment , and postoperative complications with rate of wound infection . the difference was not statistically significant for any of these variables . our beta error was , however , greater than 0.2 . our data do not demonstrate efficacy of prophylactic antibiotics in uncontaminated neck dissections with statistical significance ; however , a trend exists suggesting its possible value . 
pupil cycle time and early autonomic involvement in ocular leprosy . ocular complications of leprosy patients often develop insidiously and with few if any symptoms . this study involves measurement of the pupil cycle time ( pct ) to evaluate the autonomic nerve system of the iris to determine the presence of subclinical intraocular involvement . the study included 19 lepromatous ( ll ) , 19 borderline lepromatous ( bl ) , and five borderline tuberculoid ( bt ) leprosy patients and involved 25 healthy volunteers , 10 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and eight with duhring disease . the pct was measured in these groups . in all leprosy groups included in the study the pct was higher than in the control groups . moreover , the pct of the leprosy patients without any intraocular involvement was higher than in the controls . these results show that in the ophthalmic examination of leprosy patients without any symptoms the fact that autonomic nerve system of the eye is affected by the leprosy can often be determined by measuring the pct . 
serological evidence of infection with helicobacter pylori may predict gastrointestinal intolerance to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) treatment in rheumatoid arthritis . specific circulating antibodies to the spiral gastric organism , helicobacter pylori ( hp ) were detectable in 43 % of 68 patients with rheumatoid arthritis by complement fixation test ( cft ) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , a frequency comparable with that of a normal , age-matched population . presence of these antibodies correlated strongly with a previous history of peptic ulcer disease ( pud ) and to the severity of nsaid-related dyspeptic symptoms , the latter often leading to multiple drug intolerance . this contrasts with short term , prospective nsaid toxicity data , which show little relationship between ulceration and hp carriage . this result suggests , however , that hp may have a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptomatic pud associated with more chronic nsaid usage , and may have important implications for ulcer prophylaxis in these patients . 
diagnosis and prevalence of persistent chlamydia infection in infertile women : tissue culture , direct antigen detection , and serology . specimens for chlamydial culture , direct fluorescent antibody ( dfa ) test , two enzyme immunoassays ( eia ) for antigen detection , and serum for chlamydial antibodies were collected from 256 infertile women . specimens were taken from the tubes during tuboplasty and from the cervix and endometrium during laparoscopy or tuboplasty . antibodies to chlamydia trachomatis were found four times more often in patients with signs of prior pelvic inflammatory disease ( pid ) than in infertile women with normal pelvic findings . only 48 ( 37 % ) of 131 patients with signs of prior pid had a history of pid . ten or more c. trachomatis elementary bodies ( ebs ) per smear were found in 21 ( 8.2 % ) of 256 patients . six patients had a positive culture or a positive antigen eia test . all six had high numbers of ebs in the dfa test . we conclude that routine culture and eia antigen tests detect only a minority of persistent chlamydia infections in this population , but subjective factors in the interpretation of dfa methods must be considered . 
endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension . to assess reliability of the endoscopic and histologic appearance of the gastric mucosa for diagnosing portal hypertension , 50 patients with portal hypertension and 1323 controls were studied . endoscopic evidence of mild gastritis was seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension than in the control group ( 42 % vs. 13.1 % , p less than 0.001 ) . the mosaic sign was also seen more frequently in patients with portal hypertension compared with controls ( 14 % vs. 0.9 % , p less than 0.001 ) . however , the mosaic sign was found to be nonspecific , and the sensitivity for diagnosis of portal hypertension was only 14 % . biopsy specimens from the stomach of all patients with portal hypertension and 100 controls with a normal endoscopic appearance revealed mucosal vascular congestion in 72 % of patients with portal hypertension compared with 59 % of controls ( ns ) . there was no correlation between endoscopic and histologic evidence of congestive gastropathy . similarly , there was no correlation between the severity of mucosal vascular congestion and the degree of inflammatory changes observed in the biopsy specimens ; both in the control ( r = 0.1 ) and in patients with portal hypertension ( r = 0.14 ) . it is concluded that endoscopic and histologic features of the gastric mucosa in patients with portal hypertension are of low sensitivity and nonspecific and can not be used to diagnose portal hypertension . 
endoscopic findings in yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis . the endoscopic findings in the colon and terminal ileum in eight cases of yersinia enterocolitica enterocolitis infection were studied . the diagnosis was based on the isolation of y. enterocolitica in the feces and/or elevated serum antibody titers to the organism . total colonoscopy was performed between 7 and 38 days ( mean , 24 days ) after the onset of symptoms . in all patients , the terminal ileum was affected , followed by frequent involvement of the ileocecal valve and the cecum , and less frequently , the ascending colon . in the terminal ileum , round or oval elevations with or without ulcers were detected . small ulcers were detected on the ileocecal valve and in the cecum . these findings were observed even 4 to 5 weeks after the onset of symptoms , suggesting a relatively long course for this disease . 
why aging leads to increased susceptibility to infection . the elderly are predisposed to various infections through a multitude of factors . although intrinsic , unalterable defects occur in the aging immune system and nonspecific host defenses , there are factors that physician and patient can concentrate on to reduce the risk of infection . for example , meticulous attention to skin care can reduce the risk of soft tissue infection . improvement in oral hygiene and relief of xerostomia might promote recolonization with normal oral flora . correction of urinary tract obstruction where possible , relying on the use of indwelling urinary catheters only when necessary , can significantly reduce the risk of utis . medications that impair cognitive function should be prescribed judiciously , since they can promote aspiration with subsequent pneumonia , xerostomia , and urinary retention . correction of protein malnutrition may improve cell-mediated immunity and skin integrity , thereby reducing the risk of infection . the signs and symptoms of infection in the aged may be subtle . therefore , the primary care physician should approach this susceptible population with a heightened clinical suspicion , thus expediting possibly life-saving early diagnosis and treatment . 
helicobacter pylori infection rates in relation to age and social class in a population of welsh men . the seroprevalence of igg antibodies to helicobacter pylori was determined using a standard enzyme linked immunosorbent assay in a population of 749 randomly selected men , aged 30-75 years , from caerphilly , south wales . the overall prevalence of h pylori was 56.9 % , increasing sharply in middle age from 29.8 % in those aged 30-34 to over 59 % in those aged 45 or older ( p less than 0.0001 ) . age standardised seroprevalence rates were lowest in combined social class categories i and ii ( 49.2 % ) , intermediate in categories iiin and m ( 57.5 % ) , and highest in categories iv and v ( 62.2 % ) ( p = 0.01 ) . in those aged 30-34 years , the prevalence rate for those in combined social class categories iv and v was 57.9 % - double the rate for social class categories iiim and n ( 28.3 % ) and five times the prevalence rate in those in social class categories i and ii ( 11.1 % ) . these differences in the infection patterns of h pylori by social class are consistent with patterns of peptic ulcer disease and gastric cancer . 
mycobacterium paratuberculosis and crohn 's disease . the possible aetiological role of mycobacterium paratuberculosis in crohn 's disease was investigated . the immunological response was studied using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , western blotting , and immunocytochemistry . the antibody response to two protoplasmic antigen preparations of m paratuberculosis in the sera of patients with inflammatory bowel disease was measured by elisa . igg and igm antibodies to these antigens were measured in serum samples from 52 patients with crohn 's disease , 15 patients with ulcerative colitis , and 41 control patients without inflammatory bowel disease . although there was wide variation in the concentrations of antibody detected , patients with crohn 's disease had concentrations that were not significantly different from those of the other two groups . in addition , mycobacterial antigens were separated by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the immune response to each antigen was then examined separately and assayed for igg and igm in 10 patients from each of the three groups . an indirect peroxidase test was also used to detect m paratuberculosis in sections of tissue from 18 patients with crohn 's disease and 10 with ulcerative colitis . the results were negative in all cases . this study does not support a role for m paratuberculosis in crohn 's disease . 
brucellar and tuberculous spondylitis . a comparative study of their clinical features . the clinical data from 19 patients with brucellar spondylitis and 15 with tuberculous spondylitis were compared . the former disease affects males whose occupations expose them to brucella . the lumbar spine is usually involved and there are other symptoms of brucellosis . tuberculous spondylitis is not usually accompanied by general symptoms . the dorsal spine is more frequently affected and may exhibit vertebral collapse and paraspinal abscesses . these differences permit a presumptive aetiological diagnosis , but the definitive diagnosis depends upon bacteriological tests . 
spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer . fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to hope hospital , none being judged to be in a terminal condition . one patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations ; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief . there were three failures . twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation . of these , 20 had major recovery of neurological function . patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had ' prophylactic ' decompression at the time of stabilisation ; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression . the results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation ; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation . postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible , and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy , as indicated . 
transarticular fixation for severely displaced supracondylar fractures in children . we have reviewed 34 children who had been treated by open reduction through a medial incision and transarticular pinning for a severely displaced supracondylar fracture of the humerus . follow-up ranging from nine months to 20 years showed that 27 of 34 elbows ( 79 % ) had excellent or good results , with satisfactory resolution of neurovascular problems and no complications due to the method of treatment . 
early complications in the operative treatment of ankle fractures . influence of delay before operation . we have reviewed the early complications of 121 surgically treated closed ankle fractures ; the complication rate was 30 % , with 14 major and 22 minor complications . fractures with skin blisters or abrasions had more than double the overall complication rate . fracture-dislocations had three times as many major complications as simple fractures , and those not fixed within 24 hours had a 44 % major complication rate compared to 5.3 % in those operated upon as emergencies . patients transferred from another medical facility had high complication rates , especially if they had fracture-dislocations . we conclude that operative treatment of ankle fractures must be delivered in a timely fashion , especially in severe fractures . we would caution against the practice of transferring patients with serious ankle fractures before completion of definitive care . 
the use of a tourniquet when plating tibial fractures . sixty closed fractures of the tibia were treated by open reduction and internal fixation with plates and screws . half the operations were performed with a thigh tourniquet and half without . in the tourniquet group , there were six cases with erythema and induration of the wound ; in the other group there were no such complications . despite negative bacterial cultures , superficial infection of the inflamed wounds was suspected . it is suggested that a tourniquet may predispose tissues to infection , and its use is not recommended during operations for internal fixation of the tibia . 
ureaplasma urealyticum chronic osteomyelitis in a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia . mycoplasma species are recognized as important pathogens in patients with hypogammaglobulinemia . in this article we describe , for the first time , a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia who developed osteomyelitis of the hip caused by ureaplasma urealyticum . this article emphasizes the need for considering infection with mycoplasma species in patients with antibody deficiency . 
urinary nitrate excretion in relation to murine macrophage activation . influence of dietary l-arginine and oral ng-monomethyl-l-arginine . murine macrophage oxidation of l-arginine guanidino nitrogen to nitrite/nitrate yields an intermediate effector , possibly nitric oxide , with antimicrobial activity . total body nitrogen oxidation metabolism ( nom ) was measured in vivo by determining the urinary nitrate excretion of mice ingesting a chemically defined nitrite/nitrate-free diet . as reported previously , mycobacterial infection with bacillus calmette-guerin led to a large increase in urinary nitrate excretion . this increase was temporally related to macrophage activation in vivo . the substrate for macrophage nitrogen oxidation metabolism in vitro , l-arginine , was deleted from the diet without ameliorating the urinary nitrate excretion response induced by bcg . this suggested that l-arginine was synthesized endogenously because there are no other known natural substrates for nom . a competitive inhibitor of nom , the l-arginine analog , ng-monomethyl-l-arginine was fed to mice in their drinking water . ng-monomethyl-l-arginine ingestion blocked both basal and bacillus calmette-guerin-induced urinary nitrate excretion over a 2-4 week time span . these experimental conditions should prove useful for further investigation on the role of macrophage nom in host defense against intracellular microorganisms . 
septic shock and death due to occult sinusitis . we report a case of septicaemia and death due to occult sinusitis in an otherwise healthy adult . septicaemia was diagnosed on clinical grounds and blood culture grew streptococcus pneumoniae . maxillary sinusitis was discovered incidentally on a ct scan four days after the onset of symptoms . a sinus wash-out revealed pus which on culture was positive for streptococcus pneumoniae . the patient deteriorated gradually and died despite appropriate therapy . we conclude that sinusitis should be suspected in any case of septicaemia where the primary focus is not known and the patient does not respond quickly to treatment . 
a cross-sectional study of a program for hiv infection control among public house workers . we report results of a cross-sectional study of a program for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection control among public house workers in dar es salaam . forty percent of the 605 workers sampled had been part of this program , which included behavioral counseling and provision of condoms , for 1 year . the remaining 60 % were new recruits . program participation was associated with both enhanced condom use ( p less than 0.001 ) and behavioral modification ( p less than 0.001 ) . females , and specifically barmaids , were more likely to be condom users but were less likely to have changed their behavior in other respects . seropositivity to both hiv and treponema pallidum tended to be higher among females , especially the barmaids . since barmaids and waitresses in public houses in dar es salaam often engage in prostitution , it is felt that to effect a reduction of numbers of their sexual partners , there is a need to address the social and economic factors underlying high-risk sexual behavior . 
nosocomial pseudomonas pickettii bacteremias traced to narcotic tampering . a case for selective drug screening of health care personnel three patients in a university hospital developed nosocomial infusion-related pseudomonas pickettii bacteremia . investigation identified six additional patients who had received intravenous fluid contaminated by p pickettii but did not become ill . all nine patients had had surgery , and each of these patients but only nine of 19 operated-on control patients had received intravenous fentanyl citrate in the operating room ; the mean dose given to the nine case patients was far greater than that given to control patients . fentanyl in 20 ( 40 % ) of 50 predrawn 30-ml syringes was shown to be contaminated by p pickettii . contamination was caused by theft of fentanyl from predrawn synringes and replacement by distilled water contaminated by p pickettii . narcotic theft by health care personnel may cause patients to suffer pain needlessly and can also result in dire unanticipated consequences , such as nosocomial bacteremia . whereas drug testing in the workplace is highly controversial , we believe that testing of health care personnel is indicated when drug abuse or theft is suspected . 
protective efficacy of haemophilus influenzae type b polysaccharide and conjugate vaccines in children 18 months of age and older . to evaluate the protective efficacy of polyribosylribitol phosphate ( prp ) and polyribosylribitol phosphate-diphtheria toxoid ( prp-d ) vaccines in children 18 to 59 months of age , we conducted a case-control study in los angeles ( calif ) county between july 1 , 1988 , and july 31 , 1989 . seventy-nine children with invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease 18 to 59 months of age were identified , and 212 controls were selected by random-digit telephone dialing methods . cases and controls were stratified by age and month of disease onset of the case . seventeen prp vaccine failures and two prp-d vaccine failures occurred more than 2 weeks after vaccination . the prp vaccine was shown not to be effective ( point estimate -- 47 % ; 95 % confidence interval , -- 307 % to 47 % ) , but the prp-d vaccine was 88 % protective ( 95 % confidence interval , 42 % to 97 % ) . adjustment of the efficacy estimates for potential confounding variables did not change the results significantly . the prp-d vaccine provided significantly better protection than the prp vaccine against invasive h influenzae type b disease in this population . 
tick-borne borreliosis in west africa . reported cases of tick-borne relapsing fever due to the spirochaete borrelia crocidurae are rare in west africa , and few epidemiological data are available . to see how common relapsing fever is in senegal thick blood smears from cases of fever of unknown origin and from randomly selected clinic outpatients from a rural dispensary were examined for borrelia . the prevalence of borrelia infections in small mammals was also assessed . borrelia was seen in smears of 12 ( 0.9 % ) of 1340 children . all children who tested positive had complained of acute fever . prevalence was 0 % ( 0/496 ) , 0.5 % ( 2/417 ) , 1.6 % ( 5/308 ) , and 4.2 % ( 5/119 ) at ages 0-1 , 2-4 , 5-9 , and 10-14 , respectively . 26 other instances of borreliosis were seen in patients from different regions of senegal . blood samples from 7 of these patients were inoculated intraperitoneally into white mice ; serious infection developed in all mice . borrelia was seen in thick smears from 65 of 461 wild rodents or insectivores . six rodents species were infected . from a sample of 93 rodents , 33.3 % were infected , as judged by intraperitoneal inoculation of white mice , compared with 14.1 % by direct smear examination . the findings suggest that borreliosis has a wide distribution and a high incidence in senegal . this disease may be a major cause of morbidity in rural areas throughout much of west africa . 
aerobic and anaerobic microbiology of acute suppurative parotitis . aspirates of pus from acute suppurative parotitis were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria . bacterial growth was present in 23 specimens . a total of 36 bacterial isolates ( 20 anaerobic and 16 aerobic and facultative ) were recovered , accounting for 1.6 isolates per specimen ( 0.9 anaerobic and 0.7 aerobic and facultative ) . anaerobic bacteria only were present in 10 ( 43 % ) patients , aerobic and facultatives in 10 ( 43 % ) , and mixed aerobic and anaerobic flora in 3 ( 13 % ) . single bacterial isolates were recovered in 9 infections , 6 of which were staphylococcus aureus and 3 were anaerobic bacteria . the predominant bacterial isolates were s. aureus ( 8 isolates ) , bacteroides sp . ( 6 isolates , including 4 bacteroides melaninogenicus group ) , and peptostreptococcus sp . ( 5 ) . beta-lactamase-producing organisms were recovered from 11 ( 73 % ) of the 15 specimens tested . this study highlights the polymicrobial nature and importance of anaerobic bacteria in acute suppurative parotitis . 
a placebo-controlled trial of maintenance therapy with fluconazole after treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . california collaborative treatment group . background and methods . in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , the rate of relapse after primary treatment for cryptococcal meningitis remains high . we conducted a controlled , double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance therapy with fluconazole . at entry into the study , all participants had sterile cultures of cerebrospinal fluid , blood , and urine after following a standardized course of therapy for culture-proved cryptococcal meningitis . the patients were randomly assigned to take either fluconazole or placebo as maintenance therapy . the dose of fluconazole was 100 mg daily in the first phase of study and 200 mg daily in the second phase . results . of 84 patients initially enrolled , 16 ( 19 percent ) were found to have silent , persistent infection on the basis of cultures that became positive after entry into the study ; 7 other patients were lost to follow-up shortly after entry . of the remaining 61 patients , 10 of 27 assigned to placebo ( 37 percent ) and 1 of 34 assigned to fluconazole ( 3 percent ) had a recurrence of cryptococcal infection at any site ( difference in risk , 34 percent ; 95 percent confidence interval , 15 to 53 ) . of the 11 recurrent infections , 7 were detected in urine obtained after prostatic massage . there were four recurrent meningeal infections in the patients taking placebo , but none in those taking fluconazole ( mean duration of follow-up , 164 days ) ( p = 0.03 ) . in multivariate analyses , the best predictors of recurrence-free survival were fluconazole treatment ( p = 0.02 ; relative hazard , 13.2 ) , a lower serum cryptococcal-antigen titer ( p = 0.05 ; relative hazard , 1.2 ) , and more prolonged primary therapy with flucytosine ( p = 0.09 ; relative hazard , 1.1 ) . survival and toxicity were similar in the two maintenance-treatment groups . conclusions . in patients with aids , silent persistent infection is common after clinically successful treatment for cryptococcal meningitis . maintenance therapy with fluconazole is highly effective in preventing recurrent cryptococcal infection . 
syphilitic meningomyelitis . a 28-year-old nonimmunocompromised man developed secondary syphilis confirmed by serum and csf findings . his course was complicated by chorioretinitis , extensive skin lesions , and spastic paraparesis secondary to syphilitic meningomyelitis . mri of the spinal cord was strikingly abnormal . 
amoxicillin treatment of bacterial vaginosis during pregnancy . the purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the efficacy of amoxicillin for treatment of bacterial vaginosis during pregnancy . the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis was established by clinical examination and microscopic examination of a gram stain and saline preparation of vaginal secretions . in a double-blind , randomized manner , 108 patients at 15-25 weeks ' gestation were assigned to treatment with oral amoxicillin , 500 mg three times daily for 14 days , or placebo . patients were evaluated 2 weeks after treatment , at 34-36 weeks ' gestation , and at delivery . there were no significant differences between the two groups with respect to any clinical or microbiologic measure of treatment outcome . there were also no significant differences in the frequency of obstetric complications . we conclude that amoxicillin is not effective therapy for bacterial vaginosis in pregnant women . 
clue cells in predicting infections after abdominal hysterectomy . seventy women scheduled for abdominal hysterectomy were examined for the presence of clue cells in the vaginal discharge in an attempt to identify a possible risk group for development of postoperative infection . seven of 20 women ( 35 % ) with clue cells developed vaginal cuff infections or wound infections , compared with four of 50 women ( 8 % ) without clue cells ( p less than .01 ) . women with bacterial vaginosis , diagnosed by air-dried vaginal smears , are therefore at risk for postoperative infection . 
recombinant fusion protein identified by lepromatous sera mimics native mycobacterium leprae in t-cell responses across the leprosy spectrum . pooled polyvalent sera from lepromatous leprosy patients were used to screen a lambda gt11 recombinant dna expression library of mycobacterium leprae in order to identify the relevant antigens recognized by the human immune response . of the 300,000 phages screened , 4 clones were identified that coded for fusion proteins of the same molecular mass . the fusion protein from clone lsr2 was tested for immunoreactivity in assays using peripheral blood cells and sera from 11 laboratory personnel and 105 patients across the leprosy spectrum . lsr2 protein appears to be predominantly a t-cell antigen . it evokes similar lymphoproliferative responses as the native bacillus both at the individual level and in the leprosy spectrum as a whole . though only 50 % of patient sera with anti-m . leprae antibodies reacted with the fusion protein , the pattern of reactivity in the antibody responses was also similar for the various clinical types . the coding regions of clones lsr1 and lsr2 are identical . they show no homology with sequences stored in data banks and encode a protein of 89 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of approximately 10 kda . 
pyogenic spinal sepsis in adults . twenty adult patients presented with bacteriologically and histologically proven nontuberculous spinal sepsis . thirteen patients presented with varying degrees of neurologic impairment . all patients underwent spinal decompression ; in 11 this was combined with an anterior fusion using autogenous tricortical iliac grafts . all patients have recovered and are ambulatory , and no patient 's disorder was made worse by surgery . twenty-three separate organisms were cultured , only five of which were staphylococcus . the antibiotic courses were shorter and pain relief more rapid with anterior fusion . all anterior bone grafts incorporated rapidly , and there was no progression of kyphosis or sequestration of grafts , regardless of organisms or level . the rational treatment of adult spinal sepsis necessitates the securing of tissue from the spine for histologic and bacteriologic examination . pain relief , stabilization , and neural decompression can best be achieved with anterior decompression and fusion . autogenous iliac crest grafts incorporate in the presence of sepsis . 
hepatomuscular failure in septic catabolism : altered muscular response to plasma proteolytic factor in decreased hepatic mitochondrial redox potential . to estimate the contribution of muscle protein in whole-body protein catabolism , the muscular contribution index ( mci ; urine 3-methylhistidine/urine total nitrogen ) was determined in 49 cases of elective laparotomy , together with the arterial blood ketone body ratio ( kbr ; acetoacetate/beta-hydroxybutyrate ) , which reflects hepatic mitochondrial redox potential . mci increased after operation and the occurrence of severe infection , provided kbr was maintained above 0.7 . in patients with sepsis , however , mci decreased dependently with kbr ( n = 33 ; p less than 0.01 ) . in these patients , plasma proteolysis-inducing activity determined by in vitro bioassay increased in inverse proportion to kbr ( n = 20 , p less than 0.01 ) . moreover , plasma concentrations of not only aromatic but also branched-chain amino acids markedly increased when kbr decreased to below 0.4 ( n = 23 ; p less than 0.05 ) . thus the role of muscle protein in septic catabolism is diminished under reduced hepatic mitochondrial redox potential , despite the rapid increase of proteolysis-inducing activity . this finally leads to the failure of amino acid uptake by muscles , as well as liver . these results suggest that the deteriorated substrate exchange may form the metabolic background for multiple systems organ failure , which is often preceded by reduced kbr . 
initial results with slightly modified kock pouch . my initial experience with 20 patients undergoing kock pouch continent urinary diversion is reviewed . the procedure has been slightly modified from that described by kock and skinner . all patients have been followed for at least four months ( median , 33 months ) . there have been no early complications related to the pouch . the most significant problem , incontinence , has occurred in 2 patients ( 10 % ) at three and four months , respectively , after surgery . only 1 of these patients required temporary use of an external appliance . leakage was due , in both cases , to a patulous efferent nipple valve . both were repaired by plication of the nipple , and no new efferent limbs were constructed . in 1 patient ( 5 % ) prolapse of the afferent limb associated with reflux and pyelonephritis developed one year post-surgery . stones have developed in 3 patients ( 15 % ) . all patients are currently continent and stone-free , and all are pleased with the result . 
group b streptococcus : an unusual cause of severe peritonitis in young children treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . peritonitis in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) patients is only rarely caused by beta-hemolytical streptococci species . we describe two young children , aged 15 months and 5 years , respectively , who presented an unusually severe course of peritonitis due to group b beta-hemolytical streptococci . this course of the disease showed a strong similarity with neonatal streptococcal septicemia . in neonates , igg2 deficiency is thought to be partly responsible for the severity of this condition . this may also be true for young children treated with capd , since igg2 deficiency has been established for children . 
mechanisms of hemolysis and anemia associated with acute antepartum pyelonephritis . anemia develops in about a fourth of women whose pregnancy is complicated by pyelonephritis , although its exact mechanism has not been defined clearly . in this study of 18 women with antepartum pyelonephritis , although only a third had anemia ( hematocrit less than 30 vol/dl ) , there was evidence for hemolysis in all 18 . specifically there was a mean decrease in hematocrit of 5 vol/dl from admission to discharge . with scanning electron microscopy , we compared erythrocyte morphologic aberrations that were found in women with renal infection with those of normally pregnant women , and the former had significantly increased proportions of echinocytes in particular , but schistocytes and spherocytes were increased also ( total 10.3 % vs 1.4 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . these changes , especially echinocytosis , have been induced in vitro by lipopolysaccharide , and they are known to lead to premature red blood cell destruction in vivo . we conclude that hemolysis with subsequent anemia in pregnant women with pyelonephritis is caused by lipopolysaccharide-induced red blood cell membrane damage . 
phospholipase c activity in microorganisms associated with reproductive tract infection . phospholipase c ( lecithinase or phosphatidylcholine phosphorylase ) catalyzes the hydrolysis of lecithin into phosphorylcholine and 1,2-diglyceride . bacterial production of phospholipase c may damage reproductive tract tissues by both direct and indirect mechanisms . use of the synthetic substrate p-nitrophenylphosphorylcholine phospholipase c activity was determined in 204 isolates representative of those found in female genital tract . multiple aerobic ( 28 % ) and anaerobic ( 28 % ) reproductive tract microorganisms showed phospholipase c activity . phospholipase c-producing isolates included strains of bacteroides fragilis , b. bivius , b. thetaiotaomicron , gardnerella vaginalis , and group b streptococcus . phospholipase c activity was heterogenous ; not all isolates that belong to a particular species showed activity . phospholipase c production may be a possible virulence factor produced by a number of microflora commonly implicated in various reproductive tract infections or conditions , as well as in some instances of preterm birth . 
delayed-onset pseudophakic endophthalmitis . we reviewed 19 cases of delayed-onset pseudophakic endophthalmitis in which diagnostic cultures were performed at one month or more after cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation . we isolated four different organisms in these 19 cases : 12 propionibacterium species ( 63 % ) , three candida parapsilosis ( 16 % ) , three staphylococcus epidermidis ( 16 % ) , and one corynebacterium species ( 5 % ) . because of the unusual delayed-onset features of these cases and the retrospective nature of this study , a variety of treatment regimens were used . twelve patients had recurrence of marked inflammation despite an apparent initial cure , and ten of these patients had positive culture results on repeat examination of intraocular fluids . nine patients continued to be treated with topical corticosteroids postoperatively to suppress low-grade inflammation . of the 19 patients , 16 had final visual acuity of 20/400 or better . delayed-onset pseudophakic endophthalmitis had a more favorable visual prognosis , compared to acute-onset endophthalmitis . 
immunoreactivity of anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies to human heart valves . evidence for multiple cross-reactive epitopes . association of group a streptococci with acute rheumatic fever and valvular heart disease is well established ; however the basis of valve injury remains unclear . in this study , anti-streptococcal monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) cross-reactive with myocardium were reacted with sections from 22 rheumatic valves , nine normal , five endocarditic , one ' floppy , ' and one marfan valve . in immunohistochemical studies , mab reactivity was observed with cardiac myocytes , smooth muscle cells , cell surface and cytoplasm of endothelial cells lining valves , and valvular interstitial cells . endothelial basement membrane and elastin fibrils reacted with the mabs , whereas collagen was unreactive . similar reactivity was seen with sera from acute rheumatic fever patients . the anti-streptococcal mabs reacted with intravalvular myosin and vimentin in western blots , and purified elastin competitively inhibited the binding of the anti-streptococcal mabs to whole group a streptococci . the data show that human heart valves have numerous sites of immunoreactivity with anti-streptococcal mabs and acute rheumatic fever sera of potential importance in the pathogenesis of rheumatic valvular injury . 
bacterial phagocytosis in obstructive jaundice . a microbiologic and electron microscopic analysis . reticuloendothelial system dysfunction has been suggested as an explanation for the increased susceptibility to infection in patients with obstructive jaundice . in the present study , the response of cholestatic rats to a bacterial challenge was investigated and the uptake of bacteria by their kupffer cells was examined with the electron microscope . rats underwent bile duct ligation ( bdl , n = 8 ) of sham celiotomy ( sc , n = 8 ) and were allowed to recover for 10 days . they were then injected with 10 ( 9 ) staphylococcus aureus iv and killed at intervals of 15 , 30 , 60 , and 180 minutes after injection . two from each group were killed at each interval . quantitative blood cultures were performed , and specimens of liver and lung were obtained for quantitative bacterial culture and processed for electron microscopy . bacteria were rapidly cleared from the bloodstream of sc animals but persisted in bdl rats . electron microscopy consistently demonstrated bacteria within kupffer cell phagocytic vesicles of both sc and bdl animals at each interval selected . there was no morphologic difference in these vesicles between the two groups . bacteremia persists in bdl rats subjected to a bacterial challenge despite rapid uptake of bacteria in apparently normal phagocytic vesicles . this study suggests a defect in intracellular killing of bacteria , an impairment of delivery of bacteria to re cells , or a combination of these factors . 
evaluation of three techniques for documenting staphylococcus epidermidis vascular prosthetic graft infections . staphylococcus epidermidis ( s. epidermidis ) vascular prosthetic graft infections are notoriously hard to detect . three different techniques of determining whether vascular prosthetic grafts were infected using a dog model were evaluated . aortic angiograms were compared with nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) imaging and systemic norepinephrine ( ne ) kinetics to determine if either newer technique would be more reliable than standard angiograms . twelve dogs were randomized to control ( n = 6 ) or infected groups ( n = 6 ) . all dogs had a 5 cm section of their infrarenal aorta replaced with knitted dacron vascular prosthetic graft . the grafts in the infected group were contaminated by soaking them in a broth containing s. epidermidis . ne production and clearance rates were calculated for all animals after an infusion of 3h-ne using the steady-state radionuclide tracer methodology . one week following graft insertion , dogs were reanesthetized , and the 3h-ne infusion and measurements were repeated . standard angiograms and nmr imaging were also performed . once all tests were performed , the prosthetic grafts were removed for cultures . comparisons between the initial and final norepinephrine measurements for each group were made using the nonparametric wilcoxon two-sample test , while comparisons between the groups were made by chi square or the student 's t test . angiogram results were similar for control and infected animals . angiograms missed disruption of the proximal anastomosis found in three of the six infected dogs at graft removal . none of the six control animals , while five of the six infected animals , had localized areas of high signal intensity on nmr imaging ( p less than 0.01 ) suggesting abscess formation . 
effect of oxygen-free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis . sepsis remains a leading cause of death in the surgical intensive care unit ( sicu ) patient following major surgery or trauma . recent work has demonstrated that oxygen-free radicals ( ofr ) generated during sepsis contribute to the pathogenesis of this syndrome . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of various new free radical scavengers on survival in sepsis . a total of 85 male sprague-dawley rats were placed into one of the following treatment groups . control : cecal ligation and puncture ( clp ) ; pre-at : pretreatment with alpha-tocopherol ( at ) 10 mg/100 gm sc x 3 days , and 5 mg/100 gm iv prior to clp ; at : 20 mg/100 gm at time of clp and 4 hours following clp ; u74006f : ( 21-aminosteroid which inhibits lipid peroxidation ) 3 mg/kg iv at the time of and 4 hours following clp ; u78517f : ( alpha-tocopherol analogue ) 3 mg/kg at the time of and 4 hours following clp . survival was determined at various time points up to 72 hours . pretreatment with at resulted in improved survival , whereas the novel ofr scavengers u78517f and u74006f significantly improved survival and were efficacious without pretreatment . it was concluded that ofr scavengers can improve survival in sepsis . 
transtracheal delivery of oxygen : efficacy and safety for long-term continuous therapy . transtracheal ( tt ) oxygen delivery involves administration of oxygen percutaneously through a catheter inserted in the suprasternal trachea . transtracheal oxygen delivery has been proposed as a means of overcoming the high visibility , inconvenience , and discomfort associated with nasal cannula use . this report describes our experience using tt delivery in 40 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( n = 32 ) and other types of lung disease ( n = 8 ) . overall acceptance of tt catheter use was high and only 5 subjects elected to discontinue use . we believe the tt route is a relatively safe approach for oxygen administration and a promising method of improving patient compliance . it also offers the potential of more adequately oxygenating patients with refractory hypoxemia . 
clinical outcome of seriously ill surgical patients with intra-abdominal infection depends on both physiologic ( apache ii score ) and immunologic ( dth score ) alterations . the delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) response and the apache ii score in 118 patients with surgical infections were measured prospectively and related to outcome . logistic regression analysis generated the equation : [ formula : see text ] . the risk assessment as calculated by this model was compared to that using the apache ii system alone in a separate group of 354 patients . there was an improvement in the predictive capacity of the apache ii + dth equation compared to apache ii alone , as shown by a better fit of expected and observed deaths , an improved goodman-kruskal g statistic , and a larger area under the receiver operating characteristic curve . it is concluded that the dth response ( a broad marker of immunocompetence ) is an independent prognostic factor in surgical patients and can be used in combination with the apache ii score ( a measure of acute physiology ) to estimate better the outcome of surgical patients . 
diets enriched with n-3 fatty acids ameliorate lactic acidosis by improving endotoxin-induced tissue hypoperfusion in guinea pigs . the effect of 6 weeks dietary lipid manipulation on the acute physiologic response to 7-hour continuous endotoxin infusion in guinea pigs was examined . one diet was enriched with n-3 fatty acids , whereas the other contained n-6 fatty acids , primarily linoleic acid . animals fed n-6 fatty acids developed significant lactic acidemia , microvascular muscle hypoperfusion , and pulmonary infiltrates in response to endotoxin infusion . n-3 fatty acid-fed animals demonstrated improved lactate levels , microvascular muscle perfusion , and lung morphology compared to n-6 fatty acid-fed animals after endotoxin infusion . there was no significant change in cardiac output , pao2 , or mean arterial blood pressure at the end of the endotoxin infusion in either group . pretreatment with indomethacin , or bm 13505 , a specific thromboxane a2 receptor blocker , ameliorated the development of metabolic acidosis in n-6 fatty acid-fed animals , demonstrating a role for prostanoids in the sequelae of endotoxemia . the ability of dietary pretreatment with n-3 fatty acids to influence favorably the physiologic response to endotoxin represents a novel nutrient-metabolic interaction with potential therapeutic implications . 
adult overwhelming meningococcal purpura . a study of 35 cases , 1977-1989 . the study objective was to describe the clinical , biologic , and hemodynamic features of adult overwhelming meningococcal purpura and to examine the prognostic factors by multivariate analysis at the time of admission to the intensive care unit . thirty-five patients ( greater than or equal to 13 years of age ) with meningococcal infection , circulatory shock , and generalized purpuric lesions of abrupt onset were recorded in eight intensive care units from 1977 to 1989 . the patients were young ( mean age , 26.6 years ; range , 13 to 68 years ) and had been previously healthy . the female-to-male ratio was 3:1 . mortality was 54.3 % , with most deaths occurring within the first 48 hours , usually secondary to irreversible shock with multiple organ failure . ischemic complications ( eight cases ) , prolonged heart failure ( seven cases ) , and secondary septicemia ( five cases ) were the chief complications among survivors . initial hemodynamic study after volume loading showed low stroke volume index ( mean + / - sd , 29.4 + / - 13 ml/m2 ) and tachycardia ( mean + / - sd , 138 + / - 16 beats per minute ) , a profile suggesting a greater myocardial depression than usually observed in gram-negative bacillary septic shock . univariate prognostic analysis showed that four variables at the time of admission were associated with fatal outcome : a plasma fibrinogen level of 1.5 g/l or less , a factor v concentration of 0.20 or less , a platelet count lower than 80 x 10 ( 9 ) / l , and a cerebrospinal fluid leukocyte count of 20 x 10 ( 6 ) / l or less . stepwise regression analysis showed that low fibrinogen level ( less than or equal to 1.5 g/l ) was the sole adverse prognostic variable ( odds ratio = 2 , 95 % confidence interval , 1.5 to 2.7 ) . adult overwhelming meningococcal purpura is still associated with high mortality and morbidity . low fibrinogen level at time of admission may permit early recognition of the most severely ill patients . 
humoral immunity in surgical patients with and without trauma . we measured antitetanus toxoid antibody responses after blunt ( n = 24 ) and penetrating ( n = 7 ) trauma and compared them with responses in patients without trauma ( n = 55 ) . patients were defined as anergic or reactive on the basis of delayed type hypersensitivity response . the response to tetanus toxoid vaccination on admission of patients surviving trauma for over 2 weeks was defined as the ratio of day 14 to day 0 serum igg antitetanus toxoid levels . antitetanus toxoid responses were normal after both blunt and penetrating trauma . when stratified according to delayed type hypersensitivity responses , patients with trauma showed better antibody responses than patients without trauma . major infection rates were similar between trauma groups ( three of 24 with blunt trauma vs two of seven with penetrating trauma ) and independent of delayed type hypersensitivity ( two of 20 reactive patients vs three of 11 anergic patients ) , in contrast to patients without trauma ( one of 19 reactive patients vs 15 of 36 anergic patients ) . we conclude that decreased delayed type hypersensitivity after moderate trauma is temporary , and that this transient immunodeficiency is not as strongly associated with reduced antibody responses and increased risk of infection as anergy in surgical patients without trauma . 
clinical spectrum of fungal infections after orthotopic liver transplantation . during a 50-month period , we identified 91 episodes of fungal infection in 72 liver transplant recipients ( 23.8 % ) . candida species accounted for 83.5 % of cases . clinical patterns of fungal infections included disseminated infection ( 19 ) , peritonitis ( 17 ) , pneumonitis ( 15 ) , multiple sites of colonization ( 13 ) , fungemia ( 11 ) , and other sites ( 16 ) . the diagnosis of fungal infection was usually made in the first 2 months ( 84.7 % of cases ) , at a mean time of 16 days after transplantation . risk factors for fungal infections included retransplantation , risk score , intraoperative transfusion requirement , urgent status , roux limb biliary reconstruction ( in adults ) , steroid dose , bacterial infections and antibiotic therapy , and vascular complications . fungal infections were successfully treated with amphotericin b in 63 cases ( 74.1 % ) but were associated with diminished patient survival ( 50 % vs 83.5 % ) . fungal infection is a frequent source of early morbidity and can be related to well-defined risk factors , suggesting the need for effective prophylaxis . 
transient and distant infections alter later intraperitoneal abscess formation . transient nosocomial infections , such as line sepsis and pneumonia , are common in today 's critical care patient population . although generally well treated , the effect of these transient antigen exposures on the immune system is unclear . we have previously shown that prior intraperitoneal inoculation with live bacteria leads to increased numbers of intraperitoneal abscesses . data presented here demonstrate in a murine model that two immunizations with live escherichia coli , bacteroides fragilis , or both , administered systemically via intracardiac injection or at a focal distant site in subcutaneous tissue , significantly increased the number of mixed e coli/b fragilis intraperitoneal abscesses when induced 1 week later . further , immunization with e coli , either alone or in combination with b fragilis , increased the total number of anaerobes recovered per mouse . transient or focal sublethal infections can significantly alter an animal 's immune response to later infectious insults , particularly the formation of intraperitoneal abscesses . 
pneumonia complicating abdominal sepsis . an independent risk factor for mortality . nosocomial pneumonia ( np ) is associated with a significant mortality , 66 % in a previous retrospective study of np complicating intra-abdominal sepsis ( ias ) . we prospectively compared the outcome of np complicating ias with that of recurrent ias ( r-ias ) in the absence of np . data were collected prospectively on 300 patients with ias ; 34 patients who presented with pneumonia were excluded from the analysis ( 44 % mortality ) . one hundred seventy-one patients with no np and no r-ias ( group 1 ) had a hospital mortality of 20 % ( 34 patients ) ; 36 without np in whom r-ias developed ( group 2 ) had a 17 % mortality ( six patients ) ; and 47 with np but no r-ias ( group 3 ) had a 53 % mortality ( 25 patients ) . finally , 12 patients who had both np and r-ias suffered a 75 % mortality ( nine patients ) . we examined the relationships among the following putative risk factors and mortality : apache ( acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ) ii score ( at initial presentation with ias ) , the need for mechanical ventilatory assistance following initial treatment for peritonitis , steroid requirement , generalized peritonitis vs abscess , and the need for surgical as opposed to percutaneous treatment . using mortality as the dependent variable , group 2 vs 3 as the explanatory variable , and the risk factors as confounders , logistic regression analysis indicated that the group difference was significant after controlling for confounders . we conclude that np complicating ias is an independent risk factor associated with a significant mortality compared with r-ias . these data challenge the notion that death in ias is usually due to recurrent or persistent intra-abdominal infection . 
effect of dietary fish oil on plasma thromboxane b2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha levels in septic rats . increased mortality from sepsis is associated with high levels of thromboxane b2 ( txb2 ) and 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha ( pgf1 alpha ) . linoleic acid , an n-6 essential fatty acid , is the usual precursor of txb2 and pgf1 alpha , while fish oil is rich in n-3 essential fatty acid , the precursor of less active moieties . rats were fed chow , an essential fatty acid-deficient diet , or an essential fatty acid-deficient diet supplemented with linoleic acid or fish oil for 2 weeks . the animals then underwent a sham operation or cecal ligation and puncture to induce sepsis . six hours later , blood was obtained for analysis . the chow and linoleic acid diets produced significant ( twofold to fivefold ) increases in levels of both txb2 and pgf1 alpha after sepsis . the essential fatty acid-deficient diet and fish oil diet protected against increases in levels of txb2 or pgf1 alpha during sepsis . dietary restriction of linoleic acid or fish oil supplementation may play an important role in altering the inflammatory mediator response to sepsis . 
diagnosis and treatment of cytomegalovirus disease in transplant patients based on gastrointestinal tract manifestations . infection due to cytomegalovirus is a substantial cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients . in particular , cytomegalovirus infection has been associated with a significant detrimental effect on patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation . we are evaluating a new antiviral agent , ganciclovir 9 - [ 1,3-dihydroxy-2-2 propoxymethyl ] guanine ( dhpg ) , used in solid-organ transplant recipients who developed life-threatening cytomegalovirus infections . between march 1 , 1987 , and june 30 , 1989 , we treated 93 solid-organ transplant patients who developed tissue-invasive cytomegalovirus disease . from this group of patients we have identified 14 patients with primary gastrointestinal cytomegalovirus disease who received treatment with dhpg . tissue diagnosis was made by endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract ( 11 patients ) or colonoscopy ( three patients ) . invasive cytomegalovirus disease was identified prior to severe complications of the gastrointestinal tract in all but one patient , who suffered colonic perforation prior to treatment with dhpg and subsequently died of bacterial sepsis . while 13 of the 14 patients improved after treatment with dhpg , four patients required additional treatments for recurrent cytomegalovirus disease and recovered . no dhpg toxicity was observed . we believe treatment with dhpg is indicated in this patient population , but that further studies are indicated to fully define the impact of this recommendation on both patient and allograft survival after solid-organ transplantation . 
hepatic extraction of indocyanine green is depressed early in sepsis despite increased hepatic blood flow and cardiac output . although active hepatocellular function is depressed during sepsis , it is not known whether this occurs in the very early stages of sepsis and whether it is due to depressed cardiac output or hepatic blood flow . to study this , rats were subjected to sepsis by cecal ligation and puncture and hepatocellular function was determined at various intervals thereafter by assessing the ability of the liver to clear different doses of indocyanine green . the indocyanine green concentration was continuously measured in vivo with a fiberoptic catheter and an in vivo hemoreflectometer . maximal velocity and kinetic constant of the clearance of indocyanine green , hepatic blood flow , and cardiac output were determined in experimental and sham-operated rats . the results demonstrate that hepatic blood flow and cardiac output increased 2 to 10 hours after cecal ligation and puncture , while hepatocellular function ( maximum velocity and kinetic constant ) was decreased even 2 hours following cecal ligation and puncture . no linear correlation between hepatocellular function and hepatic blood flow or cardiac output was found under such conditions . the extremely early depression in active hepatocellular function , despite the increased hepatic blood flow and cardiac output , may form the basis for cellular dysfunctions leading to multiple organ failure during sepsis . 
effects of high-dose igg on survival of surgical patients with sepsis scores of 20 or greater . sixty-two consecutive septic surgical patients receiving standard multimodal intensive care unit treatment who developed a sepsis score of 20 or greater ( day 0 ) were randomized to receive 0.4 g/kg of either intravenous igg ( 29 patients ) or human albumin ( controls ; 33 patients ) , repeated on days +1 and +5 , in a prospective , double-blind , multicenter study . the two groups were similar in age , initial sepsis scores , and acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ii score . a significantly lower mortality was recorded in the igg-treated group ( 38 % ) than in controls ( 67 % ) . septic shock was the cause of death in 7 % of igg-treated patients and in 33 % of controls . the results of this study indicate that high-dose igg improves survival and decreases death from septic shock in surgical patients with a sepsis score of 20 or greater . 
clostridium difficile disease in a department of surgery . the significance of prophylactic antibiotics . a clustering of clostridium difficile-associated disease in a department of surgery prompted a program of infection control and the evaluation of contributing factors . fifty patients had diarrhea and positive assays for c difficile cytotoxin during the study period . twenty-one of the 36 cases that developed among patients admitted to the surgical services occurred on two adjacent general surgery wards that shared attending surgeons and house staff . perioperative prophylactic antibiotics predated c difficile-associated disease in 20 patients , 12 of whom had short courses ( less than 24 hours ) . symptoms were typically nonspecific and early diagnosis may be difficult . incidence remained high , despite infection control measures , until the coincidental closure of two surgical wards . clostridium difficile-associated disease is a nosocomial infection that can be associated with short courses of prophylactic antibiotics . recommendations regarding the use of perioperative prophylaxis should recognize c difficile-associated disease as a significant potential complication . 
macrophage antigen presentation and interleukin 1 production after cecal ligation and puncture in c3h/hen and c3h/hej mice . following cecal ligation and puncture with a 25-gauge needle , endotoxin-sensitive c3h/hen mice have a 45 % mortality compared with no mortality in endotoxin-resistant c2h/hej mice . macrophage production of interleukin 1 and antigen presentation were studied in these two strains of mice following cecal ligation and puncture at 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , and 24 hours and at 2 , 4 , 6 , and 8 days . splenic macrophages were cultured with a t-helper cell clone ( d10.g4 .1 ) , and antigen presentation and interleukin 1 production were measured by d10.g4 .1 proliferation . macrophage antigen presentation by c2h/hej mice was markedly increased compared with that in c3h/hen mice at all times after cecal ligation and puncture , most strikingly at 2 days ( 185m740 cpm for c3h/hej mice vs 30,300 for c2h/hen mice ) . macrophage interleukin 1 production was significantly increased in c3h/hej mice vs c3h/hen mice at all times after cecal ligation and puncture ( except at 2 days ) and was maximal at 8 days ( 25,000 cpm for c3h/hej mice vs 5190 for c3h/hen mice ) . these data suggest that the differences in mortality after cecal ligation and puncture between these two strains of mice may relate to a supranormal response of macrophages of c3h/hej mice or to an inadequate response of macrophages of c3h/hen mice . 
infection with hiv as a risk factor for adverse obstetrical outcome . we carried out a case-control study to investigate the role of sexually transmitted diseases ( stds ) , including infection with hiv , as risk factors for adverse outcome of pregnancy . overall , 1507 women were enrolled within 24 h of delivery . cases ( n = 796 ) were mothers of low-birthweight infants ( less than 2500 g ) or of stillborns . low-birthweight infants were divided into preterms ( n = 373 ) and neonates small for gestational age ( n = 234 ) . stillborns were separated into intrauterine fetal deaths ( n = 120 ) , and intrapartum fetal deaths ( n = 69 ) . controls were selected from mothers delivering a live baby of greater than or equal to 2500 g ( n = 711 ) . the maternal hiv seroprevalence in the control group was 3.1 % . prematurity was associated with maternal hiv antibody [ 8.6 % seropositive ; adjusted odds ratio ( or ) 2.1 ; 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) 1.1-4 .0 ] , as was being born small for gestational age ( 7.7 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.3 ; 95 % ci 1.2-4 .2 ) . in mothers who delivered a stillborn baby , both intrauterine fetal death ( 11.7 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.7 ; 95 % ci 1.3-5 .5 ) and intrapartum fetal death ( 11.6 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.9 ; 95 % ci 1.3-6 .5 ) were independently associated with hiv seropositivity in the mother . maternal syphilis was confirmed as an important risk factor for intrauterine fetal death ( 14.3 % positive ; adjusted or 4.8 ; 95 % ci 2.4-9 .5 ) . no significant association was found between other stds , including gonococcal and chlamydial infection , and adverse obstetrical outcome . these results suggest an association between maternal hiv infection and adverse obstetrical outcome , defined as low birthweight and stillbirth . 
six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening . objective -- to determine the value of screening for bacteriuria in infants with special emphasis on the natural course of untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria , renal growth , and renal damage . design -- prospective six year follow up of infants with bacteriuria on screening in an unselected infant population . setting -- paediatric outpatient clinic . patients -- 50 infants ( 14 girls , 36 boys ) with bacteriuria on screening verified by suprapubic aspiration from an unselected population of 3581 infants in a defined area of gothenburg . interventions -- children with asymptomatic bacteriuria and normal findings on initial urography were untreated , although other infections were treated . main outcome measures -- culture of urine and determination of c reactive protein concentration every six weeks for the first six months after diagnosis , every three months from six months to two years , and every six months between two and three years ; thereafter yearly urine culture . evaluation of renal concentrating capacity with a desmopressin test ; radiological examination , including first and follow up urography and micturition cystourethrography without antibiotic cover ; and measurement of renal parenchymal thickness and renal surface area . results -- of the original 50 infants , 37 ( 12 girls , 25 boys ) were followed up for at least six years . two infants developed pyelonephritis within two weeks after bacteriuria was diagnosed ; the others remained free of symptoms . 45 infants were untreated ; the bacteriuria cleared spontaneously in 36 and in response to antibiotics given for infections in the respiratory tract in eight . recurrences of bacteriuria were observed in 10 of the 50 children , of whom one had pyelonephritis . no child had more than one recurrence . at follow up urography in 36 of the 50 children ( 9 girls , 27 boys ) after a median of 32 months no child had developed renal damage . first samples tested for renal concentrating capacity showed significantly higher values than those from a reference population ( mean sd score 0.50 , 95 % confidence interval 0.21 to 0.79 ; p less than 0.001 ) , but the last samples showed no significant difference ( mean sd score 0.08 , -0.24 to 0.40 ; p greater than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- mass screening for bacteriuria in infancy results primarily in detection of innocent bacteriuric episodes and is not recommended . 
urodynamic morbidity and dysuria prophylaxis . a group of 324 patients received prophylactic treatment with either sodium bicarbonate , potassium citrate or a glucose placebo following urodynamic studies . urine was screened for infection both before and after testing and the incidence of dysuria assessed by postal questionnaire ; 63 % of patients experienced some degree of dysuria and this was severe and prolonged in 6.3 % , the majority of whom were male . neither sodium bicarbonate nor potassium citrate was any more effective in preventing dysuria than placebo . the presence of severe prolonged dysuria was not associated with a urinary tract infection or with any particular urodynamic diagnosis . 
local antibiotic delivery in the treatment of bone and joint infections . antibiotics can be delivered locally via an implantable pump to treat bone and joint infections . this is a completely closed system , and the pump is refilled percutaneously at intervals based on its flow rate . the use of this method is described in three specific clinical situations : ( 1 ) resistant osteomyelitis ( patients with persistent infections despite previous therapy ) , ( 2 ) acutely infected arthroplasties ( symptomatic for less than six weeks ) , and ( 3 ) chronically infected arthroplasties ( patients infected more than six weeks ) . in all three clinical situations , hospitalization time was shortened , and high local and low systemic levels of antibiotic were obtained . there was only one incident of side effects to the antibiotic used . this method has been successful in obtaining long-term suppression of infection in 30 of 42 patients with resistant osteomyelitis , 30 of 37 patients with acutely infected arthroplasties , and seven of ten patients with chronically infected arthroplasties . the complication unique to this method of therapy is pump-site and catheter-site infections . this occurred in three patients with recalcitrant osteomyelitis and three patients with acutely infected arthroplasties . 
a comparison between single and double dose intravenous timentin for the prophylaxis of wound infection in elective colorectal surgery . a prospective , randomized , single-blind , controlled clinical trial was undertaken to determine whether two doses of systemic timentin provided superior prophylaxis against postoperative sepsis in elective colorectal surgery compared with a single dose of the same antibiotic . timentin , a combination of ticarcillin and clavulanic acid was administered intravenously ( 3.1 g ) at the commencement of operation to all patients , and this was repeated after 2 hours in those patients randomized to receive a second dose . the wound infection rate was 11 percent in the 143 patients completing follow-up and receiving a single dose , and 13 percent in the 128 patients receiving two doses of timentin ( p greater than 0.05 ) . the rates of postoperative septicemia 3 vs. 4 percent and intra-abdominal abscess 5 vs. 8 percent were similar . multivariate analysis of the factors likely to affect postoperative would infection rate demonstrated an association with the type of hospital , public or private , wound infection rate 16 and 6 percent , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) , and the surgeon group defined by the number of patients contributed greater than 25 or less than 25 , wound infection rate 6 and 18 percent , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . we concluded that a single dose of intravenous timentin was as effective as two doses for prophylaxis against surgical infection and that the surgeon group and the hospital in which the operation took place were statistically significant predictors of postoperative wound infection . 
colonic histoplasmosis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . report of two cases . colonic histoplasmosis is a rare entity . there have been four previous reported cases within the population of patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . because of the increasing incidence of hiv infection within regions where histoplasmosis is endemic , this condition may become more common . gastrointestinal histoplasmosis has protean clinical manifestations , and symptoms are often nonspecific . any patient with hiv infection who has unexplained gi symptoms should undergo evaluation for possible histoplasmosis . aggressive long-term amphotericin b therapy has been effective in hiv patients with histoplasmosis . resection or diversion of symptomatic colonic strictures caused by histoplasmosis may be necessary in addition to medical therapy . 
a rare cause of colitis -- brucella melitensis . report of a case . documentation of gastrointestinal lesions in brucella infections is sparse . a case of brucella melitensis type 3 infection accompanied by erosive lesions of the colon , observed by endoscopy and histopathologic examination , is reported . such gastrointestinal lesions have not been described since 1934 . before 1934 only postmortem observations are recorded . 
high-protein ascites in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . diseases of the liver or peritoneum resulting in ascites have been infrequently reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . since 1985 , eight noncirrhotic patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome presenting with new onset high-protein ascites have been evaluated . all but one patient had nondiagnostic paracentesis studies . laparoscopy with biopsy of identified abnormalities or percutaneous omental biopsy were diagnostic in four patients . non-hodgkin 's lymphoma was the cause in three patients , and disseminated cryptococcosis occurred in one patient . in the four other patients , chronic nonspecific peritonitis was found at laparoscopy ; follow-up of these latter patients , including exploratory laparotomy in one patient and autopsy in two patients , disclosed no specific cause . patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and high-protein ascites of uncertain etiology should undergo directed peritoneal evaluation as a potentially treatable disorder may be found . however , despite extensive evaluation , a subset of patients in whom no specific cause can be identified still remains . 
reconstruction of the chronically insufficient anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament . the results of reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament as a free , autogenous , non-vascularized graft were retrospectively reviewed at our institution . eighty reconstructions in seventy-nine patients were evaluated after a minimum of two years . in forty-eight ( 60 per cent ) of the knees , the reconstruction was augmented with an extra-articular lateral sling of iliotibial band . the patients were evaluated with a physical examination , a kt-1000 arthrometer , radiographs , a subjective questionnaire , and a revision of the scale of the hospital for special surgery for rating ligaments . postoperatively , seventy-six ( 95 per cent ) of the eighty knees no longer gave way , and the pivot-shift test was negative in sixty-seven ( 84 per cent ) of the knees . the average score on the ligament-rating scale was 93 points . all of the patients who had clinical instability at the time of the most recent follow-up had associated ligamentous instability that had not been appreciated or addressed at the time of reconstruction . arthrometric evaluation revealed that the laxity differed by three millimeters or less from that of the untreated knee in sixty ( 76 per cent ) of the treated knees . in the patient who had bilateral reconstruction , the laxity was the same in both knees . seventeen patients , who had more than three millimeters of translation , also had additional related ligamentous instability , most commonly posterolateral instability and insufficiency of the medial collateral ligament . we think that major associated ligamentous instability predisposes the reconstruction to failure and should be corrected in conjunction with the reconstruction . 
prosthetic arthroplasty of the knee after resection of a sarcoma in the proximal end of the tibia . a report of sixteen cases . the results of a specific type of prosthetic reconstruction of the knee ( total replacement arthroplasty ) after resection of a sarcoma of the proximal part of the tibia in sixteen patients were retrospectively reviewed . the diagnosis was stage-iib osteogenic sarcoma in nine patients , stage-iib malignant fibrous histiocytoma in three patients , and stage-ib sarcoma of various types in four patients . the length of tibial resection ranged from 100 to 257 millimeters . of the eleven patients who were available for functional examination ( mean duration of follow-up , sixty-three months ) , three patients had an excellent result , seven had a good result , and one had a fair result . of the five patients who were not available for functional testing , one who was doing well was lost to follow-up at eighty months , one had died of metastases at sixteen months , and three had had a secondary amputation for infection or for loosening of the prosthesis . 
clinical and immunologic responses to haemophilus influenzae type b-tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine in infants injected at 3 , 5 , 7 , and 18 months of age . the safety and immunogenicity of haemophilus influenzae type b-tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine ( hib-tt ) were evaluated in 77 healthy infants receiving injections at 3 , 5 , 7 , and 18 months of age . no serious local or systemic reactions were noted . after the first injection the geometric mean hib antibody level rose to 0.55 micrograms/ml , and each subsequent injection elicited a statistically significant rise in the geometric mean . the percentage of vaccinees with hib antibody levels greater than 0.15 micrograms/ml serum was 75.5 % after the first , 97.4 % after the second , and 100 % after the third hib-tt injection . this percentage fell to 90.9 % at 18 months of age but rose again to 100 % after the fourth injection . control infants ( n = 10 ) injected with diphtheria-tetanus toxoid-pertussis vaccine only had nondetectable levels after the second injection . hib-tt elicited increases of hib antibody in all isotypes : igg greater than igm greater than iga . among igg subclasses the highest increases were of igg1 . all vaccinated subjects had greater than 0.01 u/ml of tt antibody ( estimated protective level ) throughout the study . we conclude that hib-tt , injected at 3 , 5 , 7 , and 18 months , is safe and induces protective levels of antibodies during the age of highest incidence of meningitis caused by hib . 
testpack chlamydia for chlamydial detection in physicians ' offices . chlamydia trachomatis is widely recognized as the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease . it is often asymptomatic and can lead to serious sequelae , including infertility and ectopic pregnancy . for this reason , testing of patients at risk is a necessary health care measure . this study compared testpack chlamydia to chlamydiazyme for the direct detection of chlamydial antigen in endocervical specimens . one thousand three hundred seventy-six patients seen in 47 private practice offices of obstetrician-gynecologists and family practitioners were screened . testpack chlamydia , a 25-minute enzyme immunoassay , had a specificity of 98.6 % and sensitivity of 90 % when compared with chlamydiazyme , a four-hour laboratory test . the overall prevalence of chlamydial infection in this population was 3.6 % . the prevalence among patients less than or equal to 24 years of age was 7.6 % higher among subgroups with symptoms and other identified risk factors . the positive predictive value of testpack chlamydia ( 83.7 % ) makes it an accurate assay for testing women at risk for chlamydial infections . 
ibuprofen prevents deterioration in static transpulmonary compliance and transalveolar protein flux in septic porcine acute lung injury . the effects of intravenous ibuprofen on measurements of pulmonary function and alveolar capillary membrane permeability to protein in sepsis-induced porcine acute lung injury ( ali ) were studied . young swine ( 15-25 kg ) were anesthetized , cannulated , and ventilated ( 5 cm h2o peep , 0.5 fio2 , and 15 cc/kg tidal volume ) . three groups were studied : septic animals ( ps , n = 10 ) received pseudomonas aeruginosa for 1 hr iv , controls ( c , n = 9 ) received 0.9 % nacl , and ibuprofen-treated septic animals ( ps + ibu , n = 7 ) received ibuprofen 12.5 mg/kg at 0 and 120 min post ps . systemic ( sap ) and pulmonary ( pap ) arterial pressures , pao2 , cardiac index ( ci ) , static lung compliance ( cl ) , evlw ( thermal cardiogreen ) , and peripheral white blood cell counts ( wbc ) were measured . bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) was performed for protein and % neutrophil ( % pmn ) content . results : ps produced significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decreases in cl , pao2 , sap , ci , and peripheral wbc and increases in pap , evlw , bal protein , and % pmn 's vs. controls . ibu prevented the early increase in pap and attenuated the late increase in pap and evlw . ibu also maintained pao2 , cl , bal protein , and % pmn 's in bal at control levels , but exhibited no significant effect on peripheral leukopenia . these data strongly suggest that ibuprofen administered before and at 120 min after onset of pseudomonas infusion improves lung compliance and affects neutrophil function sufficiently to significantly ameliorate many of the physiologic derangements in acute sepsis . 
splenectomy does not influence outcome of pneumococcal septicemia in a porcine model . the existence of the overwhelming postsplenectomy infection syndrome in adults after traumatic splenectomy is controversial . due to the similarity of the porcine immune system to man we chose the pig to study subsets of peripheral mononuclear cells after splenectomy and resistance to experimental pneumococcal infection after splenic surgery and specific immunization . female miniature pigs were assigned to four operative groups : sham operation , splenectomy , splenic resection , and heterotopic splenic autotransplantation . hematologic and flow cytometric analysis of mononuclear cells and their subsets revealed a marked leukocytosis following splenectomy and autotransplantation but no significant shift in monocyte and b-cell numbers . response of leukocytes to septicemia , bacterial elimination from peripheral blood , and mortality were not affected by splenectomy or spleen-preserving operations . mortality of splenectomized animals was 18 % , compared to 42 % in sham-operated controls ( difference not significant ) . immunization protected animals from development of leukopenia , and led to an enhanced bacterial elimination , and a significantly decreased mortality of 5 % , compared to 48 % in nonimmune animals . thus our data do not show significant effects of splenectomy on subsets of porcine mononuclear cells or on resistance to experimental pneumococcal septicemia . 
intracranial bullet migration -- a sign of brain abscess : case report . an unusual case of migration of an intracranial bullet fragment within a brain abscess is reported . movement of the bullet was first detected on skull films , and the significance of this finding on plain radiographs is emphasized . 
pulmonary aspergillosis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome background and methods . symptomatic pulmonary aspergillosis has rarely been reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . we describe the predisposing factors , the clinical and radiologic features , and the therapeutic outcomes in 13 patients with pulmonary aspergillosis , all of whom had human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and 12 of whom had aids . results . pulmonary aspergillosis was detected a median of 25 months after the diagnosis of aids , usually following corticosteroid use , neutropenia , pneumonia due to other pathogens , marijuana smoking , or the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics . two major patterns of disease were observed : invasive aspergillosis ( in 10 patients ) and obstructing bronchial aspergillosis ( in 3 ) . cough and fever , the most common symptoms , tended to be insidious in onset in patients with invasive disease ( median duration , 1.3 months before diagnosis ) . breathlessness , cough , and chest pain predominated in the three patients with obstructing bronchial aspergillosis , who coughed up fungal casts . radiologic patterns included upper-lobe cavitary disease ( sometimes mistaken for tuberculosis ) , nodules , pleural-based lesions , and diffuse infiltrates , usually of the lower lobe . transbronchial biopsies were usually negative , but positive cultures were obtained from bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid or percutaneous aspirates . dissemination to other organs occurred in at least two patients , and direct invasion of extrapulmonary sites was seen in two others . the results of treatment with amphotericin b , itraconazole , or both were variable . ten of the patients died a median of 3 months after the diagnosis ( range , 0 to 12 months ) . conclusions . pulmonary aspergillosis is a possible late complication of aids ; if diagnosed early , it may be treated successfully . 
abscess of the sphenoid sinus after transsphenoidal surgery . a case of a bacterial abscess developing in the sphenoid sinus 2 weeks after transsphenoidal surgery is presented . although abscesses within the sella turcica have been reported as rare complications of transsphenoidal surgery , this is the first reported case of the postoperative formation of an abscess of the sphenoid sinus . the patient sought treatment for severe headaches , nausea and vomiting , and marked temperature elevation . a computed tomographic scan demonstrated soft tissue and air within the sphenoid sinus . a regimen of stress doses of hydrocortisone and antibiotics was prescribed , and the patient underwent transsphenoidal drainage of the sphenoid sinus . the sella turcica was not involved . anaerobic cultures were positive for fusobacterium necrophorum . 
epidural tuberculoma of the spine : case report epidural tuberculomas of the spine have been reported only rarely during the past few decades . a case of a surgically treated epidural tuberculoma of the thoracic spine in a 76-year-old women is presented . 
oral hairy leukoplakia in hiv infection : a diagnostic pitfall . twenty-nine human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients with white , nonremovable lesions on the lateral border of the tongue , clinically suggestive of oral hairy leukoplakia ( hl ) , were studied . in particular , the value of local antifungal therapy in establishing the diagnosis of hl was investigated . in 15 patients ( 52 % ) the lesions could be ultimately attributed to a candidal infection of the tongue . in 10 of the remaining 14 patients , a biopsy was obtained from lesions persisting after local antifungal treatment . in all biopsy specimens , the diagnosis of hl was confirmed by histopathologic examination and the demonstration of epstein-barr virus dna by polymerase chain reaction , southern blot hybridization , and dna in situ hybridization . the present data confirm that the diagnosis of hl in hiv-infected patients can not be reliably made on clinical criteria alone , but requires histopathologic confirmation including the demonstration of epstein-barr virus dna , preferably by dna in situ hybridization . however , with regard to the differential diagnosis of white , nonremovable lesions on the lateral border of the tongue in hiv-infected patients , the present study suggests that persistence of lesions after local antifungal therapy is highly suggestive of hl . 
hiv infection : clinical features and treatment of thirty-three homosexual men with kaposi 's sarcoma . the clinical findings of patients with oral kaposi 's sarcoma are reviewed . these oral findings commonly included candidiasis , hairy leukoplakia , gingivitis associated with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , periodontitis , and other symptoms , including xerostomia . the other common symptoms of hiv disease that may be of importance in leading to a diagnosis are reviewed in this patient group . treatment by local radiotherapy or by intralesional vinblastine of these oral kaposi 's sarcomas resulted in successful palliation , with more than 50 % regression of the lesions in 80 % of the patients treated . 
treatment of refractory oral candidiasis with fluconazole . a case report . we describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who had persistent oral esophageal pseudomembranous candidiasis clinically refractory to nystatin , clotrimazole , and ketoconazole . in vitro resistance to clotrimazole was demonstrated as well . the patient received temporary relief with intravenous amphotericin b therapy , but this was associated with serious adverse effects , including transfusion-requiring anemia , azotemia , and severe thrombophlebitis . despite two courses of intravenous amphotericin b therapy , the patient 's highly symptomatic , recurrent oral and esophageal candidiasis continued . the patient was then treated with fluconazole and obtained immediate relief without associated adverse effects . 
hiv infection in healthcare workers . how great is the risk ? what can be done before and after exposure ? healthcare workers know that there is a risk of hiv infection through exposure to aids patients . in both hospital and office settings , physicians have the opportunity to set standards and promote education about the degree of risk , effective precautions , and postexposure testing , prophylaxis , and treatment . drs henry and thurn share the latest findings and offer policy recommendations based on their own experience . 
fungal pulmonary infections after bone marrow transplantation : evaluation with radiography and ct . the authors reviewed 55 pairs of chest radiographs and computed tomographic ( ct ) studies obtained in 33 febrile bone marrow transplant ( bmt ) recipients . the images were read separately , without knowledge of the clinical diagnosis . twenty-one episodes of fungal infection were documented . one chest radiograph showed a pneumonia-like opacity , and 17 showed nodular opacities , five with cavitation . in 20 of 21 episodes , ct showed nodules with cavitation ( n = 7 ) , halo ( n = 4 ) , hazy margin ( n = 5 ) , air bronchogram ( n = 2 ) , cluster of fluffy nodules ( n = 1 ) , or sharp margin ( n = 1 ) . in none of the nine bacteremic episodes , however , were there opacities on chest radiographs or ct studies . ct studies demonstrating complicated nodules in febrile bmt patients strongly suggest a fungal infection , whereas negative ct studies suggest bacteremia or non-filamentous fungal infection of nonpulmonary origin . ct appears to add useful information to radiographic analysis during the assessment of febrile episodes in bmt patients , especially when invasive diagnostic procedures pose a high risk . 
mycetoma : comparison of mr imaging with ct . magnetic resonance ( mr ) images obtained in 18 patients with pathologically confirmed mycetoma in the body ( n = 4 ) or lower extremity ( n = 14 ) were retrospectively reviewed and compared with computed tomographic ( ct ) scans in 15 patients and surgical findings in 10 . t1-weighted images showed an infiltrating mass ( same signal intensity as muscle ) involving skin , subcutaneous fat , muscles , tendons , and other tissues . on t2-weighted images , the mass and affected structures showed moderately increased signal intensity . bone marrow involvement was detected in seven patients and was best visualized on t1-weighted images . ct showed moderate enhancement of the infiltrative process in all patients . bone changes , seen in nine , included coarse trabeculation , periosteal reaction , endosteal proliferation , and patchy destruction . mr imaging and ct were comparable and correlated well with surgery in showing the extent of soft-tissue involvement . early bone changes ( important for therapy planning for pedal mycetoma ) were seen only at ct . the study showed that mr imaging is sensitive for assessing the extent of mycetoma in the soft tissues . ct should be the method of choice for staging pedal lesions because it can be used to detect early bone involvement . 
bull horn injuries . bull horn injury is not uncommon , and during a 12 year period from 1977 to 1988 , 101 patients required inpatient treatment at the christian medical college hospital , a teaching hospital at vellore in south india . the ages of these patients ranged from two years to 90 years and the male to female ratio was 4:1 . sixty-one per cent of the injuries occurred either to the perineum or abdomen and wounds were directed obliquely upward . thirty-five per cent required extensive surgical intervention . the over-all wound infection rate was 12.9 per cent . of wounds that were primarily closed , 42.9 per cent had wound infection , while only 6.3 per cent that were secondarily closed developed infection . two patients died as a consequence of the injury . based on the results of this study , we recommend that a careful evaluation of the injury and timely and appropriate management of each patient must be done to reduce morbidity and mortality . primary closure of wounds must be avoided even when surgical intervention is possible soon after injury . 
late cholangitis after successful surgical repair of biliary atresia . bacterial cholangitis is a frequent complication of successful surgical repair of biliary atresia , occurring in 93 % of patients before the age of 1 year , but thought to be rare after 2 years of age . among 76 children free of jaundice more than 5 years after operation , four presented with late cholangitis ( 7 to 13.5 years old ) , consisting of fever , jaundice , and abdominal pain with biochemical features of an inflammatory process and cholestasis . liver biopsy specimens consistently demonstrated histological features of cholangitis , growth of microorganism , or both . cholangitis subsided spontaneously in one patient or in response to intravenous administration of antibiotics . cholangiography consistently demonstrated biliary abnormalities but no definite obstruction to the bilioenteric anastomosis . all the children had good hepatic function 3 weeks to 4 years after the episode of cholangitis . these results suggest that cholangitis may occur several years after surgery but does not seem to alter prognosis . 
factors affecting outcome in meningococcal infections . a prognostic score for evaluating meningococcal infections in patients consists of the following five features that indicate a poor prognosis : onset of petechiae within 12 hours of presentation ; shock ; normal or low peripheral leukocyte count ; normal or low erythrocyte sedimentation rate ; and absence of meningitis . based on our experience and some published data , we suspected that the score may no longer be reliable . we reviewed the charts of 73 children with meningococcal infection from december 19 , 1979 to december 19 , 1987 and applied the prognostic score mentioned previously . our findings indicate that although a low score is generally associated with a good outcome , a higher score is less predictive of poor outcome than previously suggested . a rash with petechiae or purpura , the presence of shock , and a normal or low peripheral leukocyte count continue to be predictors of poor outcome . erythrocyte sedimentation rate was not evaluated owing to a limited amount of data . the absence of meningitis did not correlate with a worse outcome in our patients . most patients who died had evidence of meningeal involvement at the time of presentation . instead , altered mental status at presentation , particularly obtundation or coma , was an ominous sign . we conclude that absence of meningitis is not a good predictor of outcome , as was previously thought . altered mental status at the time of presentation may prove to be a stronger indicator of poor outcome . 
antibody responses to four haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccines . serum antibody responses to four haemophilus influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccines ( prp-d , hboc , c7p , and prp-t ) were studied and compared in 175 infants , 85 adults and 140 2-year-old children . antibodies to the h influenzae type b polysaccharide vaccines were determined with a farr-type radioimmunoassay . the infants received two doses of vaccine at the ages of 4 and 6 months . after the first dose of vaccine , the geometric mean antibody concentration measured at the age of 6 months was 0.09 to 0.10 mg/l , only marginally higher than that measured before immunization in all infants who had received prp-d , hboc , or c7p but increased to 0.82 mg/l in those who had received prp-t . one month after the second dose , the geometric mean antibody concentration was increased in all vaccine groups . no significant differences were noted between recipients of hboc , c7p , or prp-t ( geometric mean antibody concentrations , 4.32 , 3.10 , and 6.10 mg/l , respectively ) , whereas the prp-d recipients had a significantly lower geometric mean antibody concentration ( 0.63 mg/l ) . in contrast , prp-d , hboc , c7p , and prp-t were all highly immunogenic in adults , with no differences noted among them . the 2-year-old children also responded to one dose of these vaccines with a high antibody concentration . 
lyme disease : recommendations for diagnosis and treatment the incidence and the endemic range of lyme disease in the united states have increased steadily since the disease was originally recognized in lyme , connecticut , in 1975 . because of the varied clinical manifestations of this illness and the use of unstandardized serologic testing methods , diagnosis is often uncertain and treatment outcomes are often difficult to evaluate . the antibiotic regimens that are commonly used in clinical practice have changed rapidly . they show much regional variation with little critical comparison of treatment results . the clinical diagnosis and the literature on the treatment of the various stages of lyme disease are reviewed . the reported data are supplemented with recommendations based on 15 years of clinical experience with this illness . 
diagnosis of lyme disease based on dermatologic manifestations . lyme disease , or lyme borreliosis , is an infection caused by the spirochete borrelia burgdorferi , which is most commonly transmitted to humans by a tick bite . characterized by early and late phases , lyme disease is a multisystem illness involving the skin , heart , joints , and nervous system . diagnosis is based predominantly on clinical manifestations , the most specific being dermatologic . thus , recognizing the dermatologic manifestations of lyme disease is important for diagnosis and institution of appropriate , effective therapy . approximately 75 % of patients with lyme disease present with the pathognomonic skin lesion erythema migrans , an expanding erythematous lesion . during early infection , secondary erythema migrans lesions or borrelia lymphocytoma may occur . borrelia lymphocytoma commonly presents as an erythematous nodule on the ear lobe or nipple . during late infection , acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans , an erythematous , atrophic plaque unique to lyme disease may appear ; it has been described in about 10 % of patients with lyme disease in europe . fibrotic nodules associated with acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans as well as other sclerotic and atrophic lesions , such as morphea , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , anetoderma , and atrophoderma of pasini and pierini , have been seen late in the course of lyme disease . in a few cases , other sclerodermatous lesions , such as eosinophilic fasciitis and progressive facial hemiatrophy , have been linked to b. burgdorferi infection . we review the cutaneous lesions associated with lyme disease . 
cerebrospinal fluid immune complexes in patients exposed to borrelia burgdorferi : detection of borrelia-specific and - nonspecific complexes . we analyzed cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) from 32 patients with neurological symptoms and evidence of borrelia burgdorferi infection ( 29 were seropositive as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , 2 were cell-mediated immune positive , and 1 had been seropositive as shown by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 9 months previously ) . csf immune complexes were found in 22 ( 69 % ) of 32 patients ; in 18 , there was sufficient sample to isolate immune complexes . by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , isolated immune complexes from 10 of these 18 patients contained antibody specific for b. burgdorferi antigens . the isotypes were igg ( n = 8 ) , igm ( n = 3 ) , and iga ( n = 2 ) . by immunoblot , these antibodies were directed against b. burgdorferi 41-kda antigen and occasionally against the 33 - and 17-kda antigens . anti-b . burgdorferi igm was present in patients with acute neurological symptoms , was predominantly complexed rather than free , and decreased with clinical recovery in the one serial study . three patients were nonreactive for free csf antibodies , but had complexed antibodies to the organism . the preliminary finding of specific b. burgdorferi components in immune complexes in csf suggests an active process triggered by the organism , even in the absence of other csf abnormalities . 
effect of rifabutin on disseminated mycobacterium avium infections in thymectomized , cd4 t-cell-deficient mice . disseminated mycobacterium avium infection is the major cause of bacteremia in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . we present here a new animal model of this disease , thymectomized c57bl/6 mice that were intravenously infused with monoclonal antibody to selectively deplete cd4 + t cells . the increased susceptibility of such animals to m. avium infection is comparable to that of c57bl/6 beige mice and thus may provide a viable alternative to the latter model . further , using representative strains of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated m. avium ( serotypes 1 , 4 , and 8 and a rough isolate ) , we show that the course of such infections in thymectomized , cd4-deficient mice can be markedly restrained and in some cases the infections can be sterilized by treatment over a 120-day period with a regimen containing 40 mg of the new antimycobacterial agent rifabutin per kg ( body weight ) . 
efficacy of short courses of oral novobiocin-rifampin in eradicating carrier state of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and in vitro killing studies of clinical isolates . methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ) is an important nosocomial infection problem . colonization appears to be more common than invasive disease is . eradication of colonization or the carrier state could limit the spread of mrsa , thus reducing the potential for mortality and morbidity in other patients . the detection of patients with mrsa infection in a rehabilitation ward led to a study of the combination of novobiocin-rifampin in vivo and in vitro . we found that 300 mg of rifampin plus 500 mg of novobiocin orally twice daily for 5 days , in 18 courses of treatment given to 12 patients , resulted in the clearing of mrsa in 79 % of the evaluable courses and 81 % of the evaluable sites . a second course cleared mrsa from one of the patients with a treatment failure . side effects were not noted . all 18 pretherapy isolates were susceptible to either drug in vitro , but 1 of 2 posttherapy isolates was rifampin resistant . timed-kill studies demonstrated that the rate of killing was the same with either drug alone or both drugs together . pretherapy isolates from treatment successes or failure were killed at the same rate by the drug combination . however , with the rifampin-resistant isolate killing ceased after 48 h. results of this study suggest that previously untreated patients are likely to have isolates that are susceptible to the combination of drugs and that the combination is commonly effective in eradicating mrsa carriage . since the regimen is orally administered , and thus convenient , in conjunction with other measures it has the promise of reducing the spread of mrsa in hospitals . 
therapy of pulmonary nocardiosis in immunocompromised mice . we compared the bactericidal efficacies of various antimicrobial agents and combinations thereof in experimentally induced nocardia asteroides pneumonia in immunocompromised mice . cortisone acetate treatment , which produced impaired cell-mediated immune function , was followed by nasal inoculation of 5 x 10 ( 4 ) cfu of n. asteroides into each mouse . therapy was begun 24 h after inoculation and continued for the next 96 h. dosages of antimicrobial agents resulted in concentrations approximating levels in human serum . animals from each of nine treatment groups were sacrificed every 24 h. the pulmonary tissue obtained was homogenized and quantitatively cultured . results were calculated to indicate the number of cfu per gram of lung tissue . amikacin and imipenem were the two most effective single agents studied . sulfadiazine and ciprofloxacin were ineffective , and ceftriaxone reduced bacterial counts modestly . combination therapy did not enhance the bactericidal activities of the agents tested . we conclude that amikacin and imipenem , as well as select broad-spectrum cephalosporins , represent therapy superior to the sulfonamides in this experimental model and may represent alternative treatment for patients who can not tolerate sulfa agents ( e.g. , human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients ) or who fail primary treatment . 
ampicillin-resistant enterococcal species in an acute-care hospital . a prospective review of all enterococcal isolates for 13 months showed that 9.0 % were resistant to ampicillin ( mic , greater than or equal to 16 micrograms/ml ; zone diameter , less than 15 mm ) , as determined by the vitek system , disk diffusion , microdilution mic testing , and macrodilution mic testing . all were beta-lactamase negative . a total of 19 and 3 resistant isolates were from urine and intravascular sites , respectively . ampicillin-resistant enterococci appear to be a growing clinical problem . 
endogenous colonization by gentamicin-resistant gram-negative bacilli elaborating aminoglycoside ( 3 ) -5 - acetyltransferase . members of the family enterobacteriaceae that elaborate aminoglycoside 3-5-acetyltransferase [ aac ( 3 ) -5 ] caused a nosocomial outbreak at the vanderbilt university medical center and have persisted . to see whether the gene for aac ( 3 ) -5 was present in the community , stool cultures of newly admitted patients and ambulatory persons were examined with a specific gene probe . aac ( 3 ) -5 - positive strains were present in the intestinal flora examined . 
increasing resistance of staphylococcus aureus to ciprofloxacin . we demonstrated the marked emergence of resistance to ciprofloxacin among staphylococcus arueus strains isolated at the ann arbor veterans administration medical center . all s. aureus isolates tested from 1984 to 1985 were susceptible , whereas 55.1 % of methicillin-resistant and 2.5 % of methicillin-susceptible strains from 1989 had high-level resistance to ciprofloxacin . 
audit of results of operations for infantile pyloric stenosis in a district general hospital because of the proposal that infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis should only be treated by surgeons with an interest in paediatric surgery , we carried out a retrospective study to audit our experience in a district general hospital . forty six infants over a five year period underwent pyloromyotomy . there were no deaths , and 36 infants ( 78 % ) made uneventful recoveries . perforation of the duodenal mucosa occurred during the operation in 11 patients , and eight complications developed in six of these infants . there were seven wound infections , and two patients had vomiting that lasted four days or longer after their operations . there were no long term feeding problems . the results of this study show that such patients can be successfully treated in district general hospitals , and three areas merit special attention : meticulous surgical technique , the use of prophylactic antibiotics , and early graduated feeding . 
local infectious complications following large joint replacement in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate versus those not treated with methotrexate . we performed a 10-year retrospective analysis of the frequency of local postoperative infectious complications in methotrexate ( mtx ) - treated rheumatoid arthritis patients who underwent total joint arthroplasty . sixty patients , who had a total of 92 joint arthroplasties , were receiving mtx . a comparison group of 61 patients with a combined total of 110 total joint arthroplasties were not receiving mtx . the 2 groups were compared for the occurrence of local postoperative infectious complications and poor wound healing . eight patients in the mtx group experienced a total of 8 complications ( 8.7 % of procedures ) . in comparison , 5 patients in the non-mtx group experienced a total of 6 complications ( 5.5 % of procedures ) , a difference that was not statistically significant ( chi 2 = 0.816 , p = 0.366 ) . statistical analysis of many other variables revealed none that could be identified as risk factors for postoperative complications . these results suggest that treatment in the perioperative period with weekly low-dose pulse mtx does not increase the risk of local postoperative infectious complications or poor wound healing in rheumatoid arthritis patients who undergo total joint arthroplasty . 
cerebral circulation and metabolism in patients with septic encephalopathy . cerebral circulation and metabolism in septic encephalopathy have not been well documented . the authors measured cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) and metabolic rate for oxygen ( cmro2 ) in six patients with septic encephalopathy associated with multiple organ failure ( three to five organs ) . they found that cbf and cmro2 were significantly lower than awake control values of 46 + / - 2 to 28 + / - 3 ml/100g/min ( mean + / - sem ) and 3.1 + / - 0.2 to 1.2 + / - 0.2 ml/100g/min , respectively . cerebral vascular resistance ( cvr ) and cerebral circulatory index ( cci : cbf/cmro2 ) were significantly higher than the control values of 2.0 + / - 0.1 to 3.0 + / - 0.4 mm hg/ml/100g / min and 15.1 + / - 0.8 to 24.2 + / - 3.3 , respectively . at the time of cerebral circulatory and metabolic measurements , their consciousness varied between 4 and 10 as evaluated by the glasgow coma scale . the electroencephalogram showed diffuse slow wave activity and the latency of the auditory brain stem evoked response was prolonged in four of six patients . computed brain tomography showed either no abnormality or mild atrophy . it is concluded that cbf and cmro2 are disproportionally decreased during septic encephalopathy in association with dysfunction of the cns and decreased electrical activity . 
choroidal lesions in patients with aids . seven cases of bilateral , scattered , yellow-white choroidal lesions have been seen in aids patients since january 1988 . one resulted from presumed extension of cryptococcal meningitis into the optic nerve and choroid . all the remaining six patients had pneumocystis pneumonia at some time during the course of the disease and were receiving aerosolised pentamidine therapy . none died quickly of disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection , unlike previously reported patients . mycobacterial infection was also present in five of these six patients . the differential diagnosis of this entity in aids patients is discussed . 
corneal sensitivity and correlations between decreased sensitivity and anterior segment pathology in ocular leprosy . leprosy is one of the leading causes of corneal hyposensitivity . in this article the corneal sensitivity of 143 leprosy patients was examined , and correlations between corneal hyposensitivity and anterior segment pathology were detected . twenty four healthy volunteers were examined as controls . various degrees of corneal loss of sensitivity were found in 46.2 % of leprosy patients . lagophthalmos , chronic lepromatous granulomatous uveitis , iris atrophy , and social blindness were found 4.5-16 .6 times more frequently in eyes which developed severe corneal hyposensitivity . 
influence of untreated chronic plastic iridocyclitis on intraocular pressure in leprosy patients . the intraocular pressures of a total of 286 eyes of patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous leprosy who never had regular ophthalmological care or local eye treatment were measured . the patients were categorised according to the type of leprosy they had , and the eyes were categorised as without or with chronic plastic iridocyclitis . in patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous types of leprosy the intraocular pressure was significantly lower in eyes with chronic plastic iridocylitis 10.1 ( 3.6 ) mmhg than in both unaffected eyes 11.0 ( 3.2 ) mmhg and control eyes 13.5 ( 2.5 ) mmhg . it has been shown that chronic plastic iridocyclitis which remains untreated for years results in a lower intraocular pressure than normal . 
prevalence of chlamydia trachomatis infection in women having cervical smear tests objective -- to determine the prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases in patients with normal and abnormal cervical smears . design -- a prospective study of asymptomatic women with normal cervical smears attending their general practitioner and newly referred patients with abnormal smears attending a colposcopy clinic . setting -- a hospital based colposcopy clinic and an urban general practice ( list size 5500 ) in north west glasgow . subjects -- 197 asymptomatic women attending their general practitioner for cervical smear tests and 101 randomly selected patients attending the colposcopy clinic for investigation of abnormal smears . main outcome measures -- presence of various sexually transmitted infections as determined by culture and serological tests . results -- of the 101 women with cytological abnormalities , six had current chlamydial infection proved by culture and none had gonococcal infection ; of the 197 women with normal smears , 24 ( 12 % ) had a chlamydial infection and two had gonorrhoea . serological studies for chlamydia trachomatis specific antibody also indicated that a large proportion of patients had been exposed to this agent in both groups . there was no significant difference between the groups in the prevalence of any sexually transmitted disease studied . conclusion -- a high prevalence of chlamydial infection is present in women in north west glasgow irrespective of their cervical cytological state . 
diagnosis of disease caused by mycobacterium avium complex . isolation of mycobacterium avium complex from sputum specimens in association with the appearance of a new cavitary ( or infiltrative ) lesion was studied in 299 patients from whom the organism was isolated one or more times . of the patients studied , 114 showed only single isolation . of these 114 , only two patients ( 2 percent ) had association with appearance of a cavitary lesion . of 29 patients who showed two isolations , 26 ( 90 percent ) had the association . of 40 patients who showed three isolations , 39 ( 98 percent ) had the association . all 116 patients who showed four or more isolations had the association with appearance of a cavitary lesion . accordingly , of a total of 185 patients who showed two or more isolations , 181 ( 98 percent ) had the association . of these 181 , 176 ( 97 percent ) showed two or more isolations in the sputum examinations made in the initial three days . therefore , the sputum examination in the first three days after onset of disease is most important for the diagnosis of disease caused by mycobacterium avium complex . since the probability that casual isolation of the organism occurs twice is extremely low , we can make the diagnosis of pulmonary infection caused by this organism by evidence of two or more isolations of the organism in the first few days after the onset of disease , which is associated with appearance of a new cavitary ( or infiltrative ) lesion . moreover , theoretical consideration made in this study has led us to conclude that patients who have had a single isolation of the organism together with a new cavitary lesion should be regarded as having an infection . 
reversible decrease of oxygen consumption by hyperoxia . the hemodynamic and metabolic effects of 90 minutes normobaric hyperoxia were studied in 20 critically ill patients ( 11 septic , 9 nonseptic ) requiring mechanical ventilation with inspired o2 fraction ( fio2 ) less than 0.40 . thirty minutes after increasing the fio2 to 1.0 , arterial po2 had increased from about 100 to about 400 mm hg , and whole body oxygen uptake ( vo2 ) was decreased 10 percent ( p less than 0.05 ) due to an 18 percent decrease in o2 extraction ratio . during the subsequent 60 minutes of hyperoxia , there was no further significant change in vo2 . cardiac index did not change in hyperoxia , but it increased 10 percent ( p less than 0.05 ) in recovery as systemic vascular resistance decreased . vo2 returned to baseline after 30 minutes recovery at original fio2 due to increased o2 extraction as well as the increased cardiac output . the decrease in vo2 without a decrease in o2 delivery may reflect maldistribution of blood flow and functional o2 shunting to protect tissue from unphysiologically high po2 . while brief oxygenation is advisable before periods of hypoventilation , the present data suggest that hyperoxic ventilation in these patients with already adequate o2 delivery was counterproductive . 
miliary tuberculosis presenting as hepatic and renal failure . a 67-year-old man developed hepatic and renal failure over a six-day period . despite full supportive measures , he died on his 11th day of hospitalization with fulminant dic and hepatic , renal , and respiratory failure . postmortem examination revealed acid-fast bacilli in virtually all organ systems . miliary tuberculosis should be considered as a potentially treatable cause of hepatic failure . 
left atrial bacterial mural endocarditis . an unusual case of staphylococcus aureus endocarditis confined to the mural left atrium is presented . echocardiographic studies revealed a 1.5 x 2.0-cm vegetation mimicking a myxoma situated in the path of a mitral regurgitant jet on a color doppler test . emboli to upper and lower extremities and brain complicated the patient 's preoperative course . surgical excision and pathologic examination confirmed this rare occurrence . 
pleural pneumocystis carinii infection . extrapulmonary pneumocystis carinii infection is a rare occurrence in patients with aids . pleural involvement has been demonstrated in only one case , and this occurred after pneumothorax . this is a case report of pleural pneumocystosis in a patient with aids who did not have a pneumothorax . 
esophageal candidiasis in aids . successful therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets taken by mouth . in this paper we describe the results of oral therapy of esophageal candidiasis with clotrimazole vaginal tablets in 25 homosexual men with aids , of whom 19 had oral candidiasis and 16 had esophageal symptoms . therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets , 100 mg , taken by mouth cleared the esophageal symptoms , oral candidiasis , and esophageal lesions completely in all 25 men . clotrimazole vaginal tablets are a useful alternative to other antifungal agents for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis in aids patients . 
hageman factor-dependent kinin activation in burns and its theoretical relationship to postburn immunosuppression syndrome and infection . burn injury and intradermal injection of bradykinin or histamine cause permeability changes visualized as dye-release lesions in the skin of guinea pigs injected intravenously with evans blue dye . antihistamine pretreatment ablates the histamine but not the effect of thermal injury or bradykinin . bradykinin is generated via activation of hageman factor in a two-step reaction . steps 1 and 2 can be inhibited by corn trypsin inhibitor and soy bean trypsin inhibitors , respectively . dye-release lesions were reduced from thermal injury and bradykinin injections when these substances were injected into the skin first . angiotensin-converting enzyme deactivates bradykinin by degrading it . angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor neutralizes angiotensin-converting enzyme . dye-release lesions from both thermal injury and bradykinin injection were enhanced because of continued bradykinin build-up when these treatments were preceded by subcutaneous injections of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor . thus bradykinin is generated in thermal injury via the hageman factor-dependent pathway . hageman factor sits at the apex of a series of interrelated cascade systems , all of which impinge on the animal 's immune status . uncontrolled hagemen factor activation in thermal injury may be the link among all the events collectively known as the " post thermal injury immunosuppression syndrome . " . 
infection control in a burn center . no consensus has been reached on the ideal isolation technique to prevent hospital-acquired infection in the patient with burns . this study reports four 2-month consecutive periods of microbial surveillance in a burn center intensive care unit . phase i , the first period of surveillance , demonstrated a unit-acquired colonization rate of 63 % , with the marker organisms appearing at 4 to 8 days . direct observation of isolation technique showed a 51 % error rate . a mandatory educational session reviewing the high colonization rates , observed breaks in isolation technique , and principles of infection control failed to decrease the colonization rates as measured in phase ii . a simplified isolation technique was adopted , which led to a decrease in unit-acquired colonization , from 63 % to 33 % in phase iii from phase i values ( p = 0.0514 ) ; and to a significant delay in inception , from 7.8 to 21 days , in those colonized with pseudomonas aeruginosa ( p less than 0.05 ) . the simplified isolation technique decreased isolation costs over a 6-month period from $ 53,000 to $ 30,000 . to confirm the decrease colonization rates from phase i to phase iii , a fourth 2-month surveillance period was undertaken 6 months later . phase iv demonstrated similar results to those of phase iii . 
diffuse-adhering escherichia coli ( daec ) as a putative cause of diarrhea in mayan children in mexico . diarrhea is a major cause of infantile morbidity and mortality in developing countries . a community-based , case control study was conducted in a southern mexican mayan village for 3 weeks during the peak diarrhea period to prospectively identify the infectious agents associated with childhood diarrheal disease . several enteropathogens were isolated from stools of 34 of 58 cases , although none was significantly associated with diarrhea . for the 24 cases from which no enteropathogens were isolated , diffuse-adhering escherichia coli ( daec ) strains were significantly associated with diarrheal disease ( p less than .02 ; odds ratio = 6 ; 95 % confidence limit , 1.08-99 .0 ) . daec were highly heterogeneous with respect to plasmid content and serotype . three dna probes designed to differentiate e. coli exhibiting localized , diffuse , or aggregative adherence were compared with results from a standard hela cell binding assay to assess the utility of these probes in the field . this study provides evidence for the potential pathogenic capacity of daec and underscores the variety of diarrheal agents operating within a community . 
beta-lactam resistance mechanisms of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus . in vitro and in vivo activity of amoxicillin and penicillin g alone or combined with a penicillinase inhibitor ( clavulanate ) were tested against five isogenic pairs of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ) producing or not producing penicillinase . loss of the penicillinase plasmid caused an eight times or greater reduction in the mics of amoxicillin and penicillin g ( from greater than or equal to 64 to 8 micrograms/ml ) , but not of the penicillinase-resistant drugs methicillin and cloxacillin ( greater than or equal to 64 micrograms/ml ) . this difference in antibacterial effectiveness correlated with a more than 10 times greater penicillin-binding protein 2a affinity of amoxicillin and penicillin g than of methicillin and a greater than or equal to 90 % successful amoxicillin treatment of experimental endocarditis due to penicillinase-negative mrsa compared with cloxacillin , which was totally ineffective ( p less than .001 ) . amoxicillin was also effective against penicillinase-producing parent mrsa , provided it was combined with clavulanate . penicillinase-sensitive beta-lactam antibiotics plus penicillinase inhibitors might offer a rational alternative treatment for mrsa infections . 
diagnosing staphylococcus aureus endocarditis by detecting antibodies against s. aureus capsular polysaccharide types 5 and 8 . consecutive serum samples from patients with staphylococcus aureus endocarditis or septicemia or non-s . aureus endocarditis and febrile nonsepticemic controls were tested for antibodies against s. aureus capsular polysaccharide ( cp ) types 5 and 8 by elisa . the upper normal antibody levels were defined as the upper 99.5 % confidence limits of the values from the febrile controls . all available patient isolates were tested for the presence of cp type 5 or 8 ( 85 % of the isolates expressed either serotype ) , and all five patients with s. aureus endocarditis had positive antibody levels against the corresponding serotype within the first 10 days of infection . three other endocarditis patients lacked isolates for cp testing but two of these were positive . positive antibody levels were found in 0 of 28 septicemia patients , in 1 of 12 non-s . aureus endocarditis patients , and in 3 of 37 febrile controls . thus , testing for anti-cp 5 or 8 antibodies , especially together with cp serotyping of the patient 's isolate , seems to provide important information in the differential diagnosis of endocarditis in patients with s. aureus septicemia . 
extremely high incidence of antibiotic resistance in clinical isolates of streptococcus pneumoniae in hungary . an epidemiologic survey of antibiotic resistance among pneumococcal isolates collected during 1988 and 1989 in hungary indicated that as many as 58 % of all isolates and 70 % of isolates from children were resistant to penicillin . these figures surpass even the highest values reported thus far for spain and south africa for the same period . almost or more than 70 % of the penicillin-resistant isolates were also resistant to tetracycline , erythromycin , and cotrimoxazole and approximately 30 % to chloramphenicol . intravenous administration of ampicillin ( 30 mg/kg ) did not interfere with the growth in the cerebrospinal fluid of three resistant strains introduced into the rabbit model of experimental meningitis . no resistant strain showed beta-lactamase activity . a representative highly resistant strain contained altered penicillin-binding proteins ( low penicillin affinities and abnormal molecular sizes ) and was also resistant to the lytic and killing effects of penicillin . 
serologic diagnosis of human ehrlichiosis using two ehrlichia canis isolates . ehrlichia canis or a closely related rickettsial organism has been implicated serologically and morphologically as the causative agent of human ehrlichiosis in the united states . although e. canis has been serially propagated in primary canine monocytes , only a limited quantity of antigen is obtained by this method . a continuous canine macrophage cell line , dh82 , supports the growth of a new isolate of e. canis established from the whole blood of a carrier dog in oklahoma . serologic comparison of the oklahoma isolate in the continuous canine cell line with a florida isolate in commercial antigen slides revealed 100 % specificity and 87.5 % sensitivity . 
recombinant murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor augments neutrophil recovery and enhances resistance to infections in myelosuppressed mice . the ability of recombinant murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( rmgm-csf ) to protect myelosuppressed mice against lethal infections was evaluated . in mice myelosuppressed by cyclophosphamide , subcutaneously administered rmgm-csf was a potent stimulus of granulopoiesis by increasing the number of gm-csf-responsive precursor cells in bone marrow followed by a profound neutrophilia . neutrophil recovery was augmented by rmgm-csf in a dose-dependent manner at daily doses of 0.6-5 .0 micrograms/mouse . in addition , rmgm-csf increased the functional activity of circulating neutrophils at similar doses . when rmgm-csf was administered to neutropenic mice before experimentally induced pseudomonas aeruginosa , staphylococcus aureus , or candida albicans infections , it protected against these lethal infections , resulting in increased numbers of survivors . these data suggest that rmgm-csf protects neutropenic mice from lethal infections , probably by augmenting neutrophil recovery after myelosuppression and activation of mature cells . 
clinical disease , drug susceptibility , and biochemical patterns of the unnamed third biovariant complex of mycobacterium fortuitum . previous studies of mycobacterium fortuitum identified isolates that did not fit its two recognized biovariants . eighty-five clinical isolates of this group , the " third biovariant complex " , were evaluated . they represented 16 % of 410 isolates of m. fortuitum submitted to a texas laboratory and 22 % of 45 isolates in queensland , australia . most infections ( 76 % ) involved skin , soft tissue , or bone and occurred after metal puncture wounds or open fractures . isolates differed from biovar fortuitum in resistance to pipemidic acid and use of mannitol and inositol as carbon sources . two subgroups were present , and examples were deposited in the american type culture collection . isolates were resistant to doxycycline and one-third were resistant to cefoxitin . all were susceptible to amikacin , ciprofloxacin , sulfamethoxazole , and imipenem . surgical debridement combined with drug therapy based on in vitro susceptibilities resulted in cures of cutaneous disease or osteomyelitis . dna homology studies are needed to determine the taxonomic status of these organisms . 
susceptibility to invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease and the immunoglobulin g2m ( n ) allotype . there has been considerable controversy about the role of the immunoglobulin g2m ( n ) allotype and risk of invasive haemophilus influenzae type b ( hib ) disease . this allotype was studied in a large cohort of finnish children ( 178 ) with invasive hib disease . the g2m ( n ) allotype distribution was similar to that in the normal white finnish population . no increased risk of hib disease could be associated with the n - / n - genotype [ i.e. , lack of g2m ( n ) allotype ] . thus , the g2m ( n ) allotype does not seem to be a major determinant of susceptibility to hib infection among white populations in industrialized countries . 
role of tolerance in cloxacillin treatment of experimental staphylococcus aureus endocarditis . the role of staphylococcus aureus tolerance was investigated in endocarditis in rats . the efficacies of cloxacillin , gentamicin , and a combination of the two were compared for animals infected with a tolerant strain , its kill-sensitive variant , or a nonisogenic nontolerant strain of s. aureus . cloxacillin was significantly less effective for treating the tolerant than for the nontolerant strains . the addition of gentamicin to cloxacillin reduced bacterial numbers in endocardial vegetations for the tolerant strain comparable to the reduction by cloxacillin alone for the nontolerant strains , but had no additional effect for the nontolerant strains . isolates from animals infected with the tolerant or nontolerant strains during antibiotic treatment remained tolerant or nontolerant . these results show that the in vitro phenomenon of tolerance is relevant in vivo . 
serotypes of respiratory isolates of streptococcus pneumoniae compared with the capsular types included in the current pneumococcal vaccine . the serotypes of 474 clinically significant streptococcus pneumoniae respiratory isolates collected during a national surveillance study in 1987-1988 were compared to the capsular types included in the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine licensed for use in the united states . overall , 355 isolates ( 74.9 % ) belonged to types included in the current vaccine , while another 65 ( 13.7 % ) were types serologically related to vaccine types and likely to be protective by virtue of cross-reactivity . relatively few isolates ( 9.1 % ) belonged to nonvaccine serotypes , and only 2.3 % were nontypable . the mucoid serotype 3 was most frequent ( 13.1 % of total ) , followed by 19f ( 9.3 % ) , 23f ( 7.4 % ) , 6b and 14 ( 5.7 % each ) , and 4 and 6a ( 5.5 % each ) . the most frequent type not included in the vaccine was type 16 ( 2.1 % of all isolates ) . thus , nearly 89 % of respiratory isolates included in this study were encompassed within the antigenic spectrum of the currently marketed pneumococcal vaccine . 
effect of indomethacin on the pathophysiology of experimental meningitis in rabbits . the effects of indomethacin on central nervous system abnormalities in rabbits with experimental pneumococcal meningitis were studied . as expected , prostaglandin e2 levels in cerebrospinal fluid were significantly lower in the indomethacin-treated group , indicating that the drug effectively reduced prostaglandin synthesis . brain edema was markedly attenuated in the indomethacin-treated group ; however , cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell counts , lactate and protein concentrations , and intracisternal pressure were not significantly different between groups . it seems that indomethacin , while effective in reducing brain edema , does not significantly affect other important pathophysiologic alterations in experimental pneumococcal meningitis . 
urinary phenolic glycolipid 1 in the diagnosis and management of leprosy . a simplified assay to measure the phenolic glycolipid 1 ( pgl-1 ) of mycobacterium leprae in the urine was applied to the diagnosis of leprosy and the monitoring of antileprosy chemotherapy . one hundred seventy-nine previously untreated patients and 25 normal controls were tested . the specificity of the assay was 100 % . there were no false-positive results . the sensitivity of the assay varied with the type of leprosy from 92 % for lepromatous leprosy to 56 % for borderline lepromatous and 18 % for borderline tuberculoid patients . after the onset of chemotherapy in lepromatous leprosy patients , there was often a transient increase of urinary pgl-1 , followed by a steady decline . within 3 months of multiple drug therapy , urinary pgl-1 levels were reduced by 90 % -99 % and were often undetectable . this assay appears to have considerable potential for monitoring chemotherapy and detecting treatment failure and relapse in patients with hansen 's disease . 
yersinia enterocolitica o :3 : an emerging cause of pediatric gastroenteritis in the united states . the yersinia enterocolitica collaborative study group . after an outbreak of yersinia enterocolitica infections among black children in atlanta , a seven-hospital study was conducted to determine the importance of this pathogen in other communities with large black populations . of 4841 stool specimens from patients with gastroenteritis examined between november 1989 and january 1990 , y. enterocolitica , shigella , campylobacter , and salmonella were identified in 38 , 49 , 60 , and 98 specimens , respectively ; 34 ( 92 % ) of 37 y. enterocolitica isolates were serotype o :3 . of the 38 patients with yersiniosis , 37 ( 97 % ) were children . illnesses were clustered around the holidays , and 20 ( 62 % ) of 32 patients had been exposed to raw pork intestines in the 2 weeks before onset . exposure was significantly associated with illness in a case-control study of eight patients identified at one hospital ( p = .004 ) . infants less than or equal to 6 months old with yersiniosis were more likely to have immature-to-total neutrophil ratios greater than 0.50 than were infants of comparable age with salmonellosis ( p = .02 ) . infrequently isolated in the past , y. enterocolitica o :3 is emerging as an important enteric pathogen in this country , particularly among black children . 
preexposure of the peritoneum to live bacteria increases later mixed intraabdominal abscess formation and delays mortality . intraabdominal infections are a major source of morbidity and mortality for the trauma and postoperative patient . transient peritoneal contamination with bacteria after either intentional or unintentional violation of the gut are common . the effect of this intermittent antigen exposure upon later formation of intraabdominal abscesses is unclear . previous experiments by others have demonstrated that repeated exposure to bacteroides fragilis capsular polysaccharide can induce a t lymphocyte-mediated immunity to subsequent induction of pure b. fragilis abscess formation . in a murine mixed intraabdominal abscess model , preexposure to live escherichia coli , b. fragilis , or both increased the number of later abscesses and in some cases their bacterial composition . further , immunization with e. coli alone increased late mortality without altering overall mortality . these data suggest that the alterations of immune function produced by live , transient bacteria upon subsequent mixed intraabdominal abscess induction result in fundamentally different consequences from those observed after specific polysaccharide antigen exposure and subsequent monomicrobial abscess induction . 
nosocomial legionnaires ' disease and use of medication nebulizers . guidelines for the prevention of nosocomial pneumonia specify that only sterile fluids should be used for aerosol therapy ; however , this recommendation may not be uniformly followed . thirteen patients with nosocomial pneumonia due to legionella pneumophila serogroup 3 ( lp3 ) were identified at a community hospital in the period from 1984 through 1988 ; 12 patients ( 92 % ) had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ; and 9 patients ( 69 % ) died . an epidemiologic investigation suggested that the use of nebulizers to deliver medication was associated with acquiring legionnaires ' disease . the hospital potable water system was contaminated with lp3 , and a survey indicated that tap water was commonly used to wash medication nebulizers . lp3 in respirable-size droplets was isolated from aerosols generated by a nebulizer containing lp3 at one-tenth the concentration found in the hospital potable water . these findings support the recommendation that only sterile fluids be used for filling or cleaning respiratory care equipment and suggest that this guideline is not universally followed . 
serum erythropoietin levels in the anaemia of chronic disorders . serum erythropoietin ( s-epo ) levels were measured in 50 patients with anaemia of chronic disorders ( acd ) , classified into three groups according to their aetiology : inflammatory ( n = 20 ) , infectious ( n = 15 ) and neoplastic ( n = 15 ) . the inflammatory group showed a higher mean s-epo level ( mean value + / - sem , 69 + / - 11 mu ml-1 ) than the neoplastic ( 43 + / - 5 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.05 ) and infectious groups ( 27 + / - 4 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.01 ) . the s-epo level in the inflammatory group also differed from that of 32 healthy controls ( 36 + / - 3 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.05 ) . fourteen patients with added iron deficiency ( 12 subjects from the inflammatory group ) showed the highest s-epo concentration ( 72 + / - 17 mu ml-1 ) . conversely , s-epo levels were lower in febrile subjects ( 12 patients with infection and five with malignancy ) than in non-febrile patients ( 28 + / - 4 mu ml-1 vs. 55 + / - 7 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.01 ) . in the infectious group , the logarithm of s-epo correlated directly with the haemoglobin and haematocrit values . we conclude that differences in s-epo concentration in acd may be further related to the patient 's iron stores and temperature . a decrease in epo production may contribute to the pathogenesis of acd secondary to infection . 
lag screw fixation of mandibular angle fractures . this article presents a technique of applying lag screws for treating fractures of the mandibular angle . a review of 30 patients who had lag screws placed to treat such fractures showed that it is an extremely useful , but technique-sensitive , method of providing rigid internal fixation . the advantages and complications of this technique over bone-plate fixation are discussed . 
virola : a promising genus for ethnopharmacological investigation . data are now available on the antifungal use of virola from four countries and some 14 different tribes of indians in these countries who employ the virola exudate for the same or similar purposes . three of the five methods of ethnobotanical investigation proposed by schultes and swain in 1976 have been employed in this ethnobotanical research . furthermore , both of the present authors have successfully employed this antifungal treatment themselves . given that deep fungal infections of the skin are often considered incurable with medications currently in use , further laboratory analysis of virola resin should be undertaken as soon as possible . 
definitions , classification , and clinical presentation of urinary tract infections . urinary tract infections encompass a spectrum of clinical and pathologic conditions involving various parts of the urinary tract . each syndrome has its own unique epidemiology , natural history , and clinical manifestations . basic terminology used in describing urinary tract infections is defined in this article . a classification of these infections and their clinical features is presented . 
bacterial etiologic agents in the pathogenesis of urinary tract infection . most of the information available concerning virulence factors of uropathogens is based on studies of escherichia coli , the commonest cause of urinary tract infections . earlier studies revealed several phenotypic escherichia coli virulence factors that influenced both the anatomic level and severity of urinary tract infection . virulence factors included o antigen serotype , presence and quantity of k capsular polysaccharide , adherence to uroepithelial cells , resistance to serum bactericidal activity , hemolysin , and aerobactin production . the introduction of dna hybridization methodology has provided a valuable tool for reevaluation of the epidemiology of escherichia coli infection as well as an alternative to the conventional phenotypic approach for studying the genotypic basis for virulence . 
host defense mechanisms in the pathogenesis of urinary tract infection . certain microorganisms have a propensity for causing urinary tract infection , and the route ( either ascending or hematogenous ) by which microorganisms contaminate the urinary tract from external sources is frequently characteristic of the microorganism . there are local defense mechanisms both in the urine and at each anatomic site in the urinary tract ( urethra , bladder , ureter , and kidney ) . the defense mechanisms at one site may have opposing effects on microbial growth at other sites in the urinary tract . the outcome following entrance of microorganisms into the urinary tract is a result of competing forces , which consist of these local urinary defense mechanisms , the initial numbers of microorganisms contaminating the urinary tract , and microbial virulence factors . 
epidemiology and natural history of urinary tract infections in children . recent retrospective surveys have supported previous investigations in demonstrating the incidence of uti during infancy ; 0.3 % to 1.2 % of infants develop symptomatic uti during the first year of life . boys are more commonly infected during the first 3 months of life . after the first year , symptomatic uti is much more frequent among girls . similarly , asymptomatic bacteriuria is more frequently detected in boys than in girls during the first 12 months of life . thereafter , the incidence decreases markedly in boys but increases in girls . recent investigations indicate that lack of circumcision is a risk factor for uti among male infants . recurrent uti is common and frequently asymptomatic . the most important microbiologic factor that is associated with e. coli causing acute pyelonephritis is adherence mediated by p fimbriae . other factors , such as capsule , lipopolysaccharide , aerobactin production , and serum resistance , also determine the invasiveness of e. coli . vesicoureteral reflux appears to be an important host factor predisposing to uti . microbiologic and host factors that are determinants of renal scarring are under investigation . 
the natural history of urinary infection in adults . the vast majority of otherwise healthy adults with anatomically and functionally normal urinary tracts experience few untoward long-term consequences from symptomatic or asymptomatic utis . effective early treatment of symptomatic infection rapidly curtails bacterial invasion and the resulting inflammatory response . rarely , uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis causes suppuration and renal scarring . urinary infections in patients with renal calculi , obstructed urinary tract , neurogenic bladder , or diabetes are frequently much more destructive and have ongoing sequelae . strategies to treat both the infection and the complications are often necessary to alter this outcome . 
laboratory in the diagnosis and management of urinary tract infections . the laboratory is essential in the diagnosis and management of utis . the presence of pyuria and bacteriuria , the two most important indicators of utis , are most accurately determined by standard techniques . in quantitating pyuria , the finding of greater than or equal to 10 leukocytes/mm3 of urine by either hemocytometry or direct microscopy correlates highly with symptomatic , culture-proven utis . the determination of bacteriuria by direct microscopy is inaccurate , particularly at lower levels of bacteriuria ; thus , quantitative urine cultures remain the most accurate measure of bacteriuria . significant bacteriuria , previously defined as greater than or equal to 10 ( 5 ) cfu/ml of urine , has been redefined with the observation that as few as 10 ( 2 ) cfu/ml can be associated with significant pyuria and symptoms suggestive of cystitis . the need for routine and posttreatment urine cultures in nonpregnant women with acute dysuria remains controversial , but current data suggest that they are usually unnecessary . rapid diagnostic tests for detection of pyuria and bacteriuria are designed to increase efficiency and decrease cost in the diagnosis of uti . unfortunately , none of these techniques can quantitate pyuria or bacteriuria as accurately as the standard methods , but the level of accuracy offered by the standard methods is not always necessary in the care of patients with uncomplicated utis . these tests are particularly well suited for screening asymptomatic high-risk populations . noninvasive localization techniques continue to be explored as possible alternatives to invasive localization procedures , but they remain largely research tools that are not readily available to the practicing clinician . understanding the applicability and appropriate use of newer technologies in the evaluation of patients with utis and how these technologies complement the standard diagnostic techniques will lead to better , more efficient , and less costly patient care . 
management of urinary tract infections in children . urinary tract infection is common in children . the presentation varies with age . younger children exhibit protean signs . diagnosis is dependent on the demonstration of significant bacteriuria in a properly collected and handled urine sample . the approach to treatment depends on the degree of illness at presentation , the presence of structural urinary tract abnormalities , and the age of the patient . pathophysiology of urinary tract infection is dependent on interactive factors of the host and of the invading microorganism . urinary tract abnormalities have significant impact on the management of children with urinary tract infections , both medically and surgically . of particular importance is the observation that renal damage usually occurs within the first 5 years of life , and treatment delay in some young patients may have significant consequences . the overall prognosis in children with urinary tract infection is favorable . 
management of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infection in adults . acute uncomplicated uti is one of the most common problems for which young women seek medical attention , and it accounts for considerable morbidity and health care costs . acute cystitis is a superficial infection of the bladder mucosa , whereas pyelonephritis involves tissue invasion of the upper urinary tract . localization tests suggest that as many as one third of episodes of acute cystitis are associated with silent upper tract involvement . acute cystitis or pyelonephritis in the adult patient should be considered uncomplicated if the patient is not pregnant or elderly , if there has been no recent instrumentation or antimicrobial treatment , and if there are no known functional or anatomic abnormalities of the genitourinary tract . most of these infections are caused by e. coli , which are susceptible to many oral antimicrobials . because of the superficial nature of cystitis , single-dose and 3-day regimens have gained wide acceptance as the preferred methods of treatment . review of the published data suggests that a 3-day regimen is more effective than a single-dose regimen for all antimicrobials tested . regimens with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole appear to be more effective than those with beta-lactams , regardless of the duration . acute pyelonephritis does not necessarily imply a complicated infection . upper tract infection with highly virulent uropathogens in an otherwise healthy woman may be considered an uncomplicated infection . the optimal treatment duration for acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis has not been established , and 14-day regimens are often used . we prefer to use antimicrobials that attain high renal tissue levels , such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or quinolones , for pyelonephritis . women with frequently recurring infections can be successfully managed by continuous prophylaxis , either daily or thrice-weekly , by postcoital prophylaxis , or , in compliant patients , by early self-administration of single-dose or 3-day therapy as soon as typical symptoms are noted . our drug of choice for all these regimens is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . acute uncomplicated cystitis in adult men is very uncommon , but it is occasionally noted in homosexual men who practice insertive and intercourse or in heterosexual men whose partners have vaginal colonization with e. coli . 
epidemiology , natural history , and management of urinary tract infections in pregnancy . the urinary tract undergoes profound physiologic and anatomic changes during pregnancy that facilitate the development of symptomatic utis in women with bacteriuria . although the adverse effects of asymptomatic bacteriuria on maternal and fetal health continue to be debated , it is clear that asymptomatic bacteriuria is the major risk factor for developing symptomatic uti and that symptomatic infections are associated with significant maternal and fetal risks . because the majority of symptomatic utis develop in women with bacteriuria earlier in pregnancy , treatment of bacteriuria is undertaken to prevent symptomatic infections . all women should be screened at the first antenatal visit , which is reliably and inexpensively done with a dipstick culture . short-course therapy is as effective as prolonged therapy and should be followed with a repeat culture to document clearing of the bacteriuria . failure to eliminate bacteriuria with repeated therapy or recurrence with the same organism is indicative of renal parenchymal infection or a structural abnormality . all women with persistent bacteriuria or recurrent infection should have follow-up cultures and a complete urologic evaluation after delivery . 
special problems of urinary tract infection in the elderly . bacteriuria is much more common among elderly than among younger populations , and is most often asymptomatic . asymptomatic bacteriuria in the elderly is a benign condition in the vast majority of cases and does not require therapy . when symptomatic lower uti occurs , short-course ( 3-day ) therapy with any of several agents is indicated , and is usually effective . women with frequently recurrent symptomatic uti may benefit from estrogen therapy . fourteen days of therapy is indicated in patients with upper uti . the typical signs and symptoms of pyelonephritis may be altered or absent in elderly patients . 
urinary tract infection in the impaired host . in general , defects in phagocytosis and in humoral or cellular immunity do not appear to predispose to the acquisition of uti but do influence the clinical manifestations and the severity , microbiology , and complications of infection once it is established . the incidence of uti in immunosuppressed patients other than diabetics or renal transplant recipients is not higher than the incidence in nonimmunosuppressed individuals . the higher frequencies of infection seen in diabetics and in renal transplant recipients correlate best with the duration of bladder instrumentation rather than with glycosuria or immunosuppressive regimen . neutropenia blunts the clinical manifestations of uti and predisposes to bacteremia . use of broad spectrum antibiotics results in alterations in indigenous flora , promotes urinary infections with resistant nosocomial pathogens , and predisposes to fungemia with hematogenous seeding of the urinary tract . routine screening for detection of asymptomatic bacteriuria and prompt institution of antimicrobial therapy is indicated only in renal transplant recipients within 3 months of their surgery and not in any of the other diseases discussed . 
prostatitis . several distinct types of prostatitis , or prostatitis syndromes , are now recognized . the most common forms include acute and chronic bacterial prostatitis , nonbacterial prostatitis , and prostatodynia . bacterial prostatitis , caused mainly by coliform bacteria , pseudomonas , and enterococcus faecalis , is often difficult to cure and usually requires extended therapy ( 4-16 weeks ) with an appropriate antimicrobial agent that achieves therapeutic levels in the prostatic secretory system . about 90 % of men with prostatitis have nonbacterial prostatitis or prostatodynia . nonbacterial prostatitis is an inflammation of the prostate of unknown cause . patients with prostatodynia typically have sterile cultures and normal prostatic secretions but demonstrate an acquired voiding dysfunction on videourodynamic testing . because nonbacterial types of prostatitis have no recognized infectious cause , treatment using antimicrobial agents is ineffective and unwarranted . 
radiology of renal infection . radiology plays a key role in the diagnosis and treatment of renal inflammatory diseases . the efficacious use of the various imaging modalities in evaluating renal inflammatory disease requires knowledge of their attributes as well as their weaknesses . we review the available studies and use of contrast agents , and illustrate radiologic findings in specific inflammatory disease processes . 
the role of the urologist in urinary tract infection . the urologist 's role in urinary tract infections will vary according to the situation . urologists do give primary care , consult , define anatomic abnormalities , surgically correct abnormalities , and do basic research in the field of urinary tract infections . urologists are essential in diagnosing and managing cases with infections behind obstructions and working out the differential diagnoses of chronic prostatitis . 
the catheter and urinary tract infection . catheter-associated bacteriuria is the most common infection acquired in hospitals and nursing homes . this infection would be even more common but for the use of the closed catheter system . most modifications have not improved upon the closed catheter itself . however , even with meticulous care , this system will not prevent bacteriuria forever . after bacteriuria develops , our ability to limit its complications is minimal . additionally , the catheterized urinary tract becomes a reservoir of bacteria that can be transferred to other patients . once a catheter is put in place , one must keep two important concepts in mind : ( 1 ) keep the catheter system closed in order to postpone the onset of bacteriuria ; and ( 2 ) remove the catheter as soon as possible . if the catheter can be removed before bacteriuria develops , postponement becomes prevention . however , the best prevention is not to use a urethral catheter at all . non-device alternatives to urethral catheterization should be used whenever possible . if these are not useful or successful , then other devices might be considered . for incontinent men , a condom catheter is a useful alternative . for patients with urinary retention , intermittent or suprapubic catheterization may be options for both short-term and long-term needs . the roles of these alternatives to urethral catheters must be defined by controlled trials . 
urinary tract infection : economic considerations . urinary tract infection results in significant morbidity and mortality while consuming large amounts of national resources . the prevention , diagnosis , and treatment of urinary tract infection produce both costs and benefits , and economic analysis provides a rational framework for looking at these effects . the goals and methods of economic analysis in medicine are summarized , and strategies to address uncomplicated cystitis , nosocomial urinary tract infection , and pyelonephritis are reviewed , with an emphasis on the economic trade-offs faced by decision makers . 
sexual transmission of human t-cell leukemia virus type i associated with the presence of anti-tax antibody . the tax gene product ( tax protein ) of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) is a specific transcriptional activator of the viral long terminal repeat sequence and is essential for the replication cycle of the virus . to elucidate the relationship between the presence of anti-tax antibody and the transmission of the viral infection , annual consecutive serum samples from married couples serologically discordant or concordant for htlv-i were examined . these included 5 individuals whose spouses seroconverted during this 5-year follow-up study period . the samples were tested by a western blot assay using a recombinant tax protein as the antigen . the results showed that 24 of 32 ( 75 % ) men in the concordant couples ( both husband and wife were htlv-i carriers ) had anti-tax antibody , while only 5 of 18 ( 27.8 % ) men in the discordant couples ( husband was carrier and wife was seronegative to htlv-i ) were positive for anti-tax antibody ( p = 0.0012 ) . furthermore , all spouses of the 5 seroconverters ( 4 women and 1 man ) had anti-tax antibody , while only 23 of 46 ( 50 % ) age-matched randomly selected htlv-i carriers from the discordant-couple group had anti-tax antibody . when the data were analyzed by gender , all husbands of the female seroconverters had anti-tax antibodies , which was significantly higher than the prevalence of anti-tax antibodies in men who did not transmit the virus to their spouses during the follow-up period ( p = 0.017 ) . in addition , antibody reactivity to other htlv-i antigens ( including env gp46 , transmembrane protein gp21 , and gag p19 and p24 ) were examined . the results indicated no significant differences between the prevalence of antibody reactivity to any of the antigens in the spouses of the seroconverters and the reference group . we conclude that the presence of anti-tax antibody in men may indicate a high risk of viral transmission to their wives via heterosexual routes . 
relationship of transfusion and infectious complications after gastric carcinoma operations . to determine the effect of transfusion on the incidence of postoperative infection , a retrospective cohort study of 196 patients who underwent surgery for gastric carcinoma in the period from 1985 through 1989 was carried out . seventy-one patients ( 36.2 % ) developed postoperative septic complications ; they had received an average of 4.2 blood units , as compared with 2.7 units received by patients not affected ( p less than 0.0053 ) . the hypothesis of dose-response relationship is supported by the mantel-haenszel test , as applied to the overall results ( p less than 0.01 ) and the results grouped by duration of operation ( p less than 0.02 ) . furthermore , logistic regression analysis shows transfusion to be an independent risk factor in the incidence of infection ( p less than 0.01 ) , as are antibiotic prophylaxis ( p less than 0.015 ) , urinary tract catheterization ( p less than 0.002 ) , and the duration of surgery ( p less than 0.027 ) . this significance is attained after adjustment for age , gender , period of evolution of symptoms ; preoperative infection ( s ) , number of white cells , hemoglobin level and total proteins on diagnosis , location of tumor , tumor , nodes , and metastasis staging , operative technique , drainage of the area of operation , enteral nutrition , and the histologic studies and macroscopic appearance of the tumor . this study is further evidence that transfusion may cause an increased incidence of postoperative infection . 
mycobacteremia in acquired immune deficiency syndrome . rapid diagnosis based on inclusions in the peripheral blood smear . in 16 cases of human immunodeficiency virus-associated mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex ( mac ) infection , 7 were diagnosed after finding intracytoplasmic negatively staining linear inclusions within histiocytes using romanowsky-stained bone marrow aspirate smears . four patients had inclusions within monocytes and neutrophils in the peripheral blood smear . the authors believe these cases represent the first reported examples of mac inclusions observed within leukocytes in wright 's - stained peripheral blood smears . inclusions usually were found in the setting of prominent toxic changes in leukocytes such as large dohle bodies , marked granulation , and vacuolation . these inclusions are characteristic of mycobacteria and can be confirmed by acid fast stains and mycobacteriologic culture . the authors present the clinical and laboratory setting in which identification of inclusions in peripheral blood smears may be a rapid , minimally invasive , and cost-effective method of diagnosing mycobacterial infection . 
issues in cerebrospinal fluid management . csf venereal disease research laboratory testing . three policies for decreasing unnecessary cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) management venereal disease research laboratory ( vdrl ) tests were compared . the first policy attempted to educate physicians about the use of serologic tests for diagnosing neurosyphilis but allowed the csf vdrl to be performed either as a screening test or as a retrospective test . the second policy required that the csf vdrl be performed as a retrospective test without regard to the patient 's serologic status . the third policy required that a patient be seropositive by either rapid plasma reagin ( rpr ) or fluorescent treponemal antibody absorbance ( fta-abs ) before a csf vdrl could be performed . before these policies were instituted , vdrl testing was performed on 18.2 % of all csf samples . the optional and required retrospective policies decreased the csf vdrl rate to 13.0 % and 8.5 % , respectively , but the percentages of seropositive patients for whom these procedures were performed were only 7.3 % and 12.9 % . the third policy decreased the csf vdrl test rate to 1.8 % ( p less than 0.001 ) with seropositivity improving to 90 % . to assure serologic tests are obtained in the evaluation of neurosyphilis , requirement for seropositivity must be implemented with the use of retrospective csf vdrl testing . 
issues in cerebrospinal fluid management . acid-fast bacillus smear and culture . meningeal tuberculosis is an uncommon disease in the united states with an annual incidence of fewer than 200 cases . this study evaluates three approaches to improving the use of the cerebrospinal ( csf ) acid-fast bacillus ( afb ) smear and culture procedure : ( 1 ) education alone ; ( 2 ) optional screening by which physicians can select to have the afb analysis stopped if the initial csf findings are unremarkable ; and ( 3 ) mandatory screening before the performance of all csf afb analyses . with education alone , the csf afb culture rate decreased from 20.6 % of all csf acquisitions to 15.7 % ( p less than 0.001 ) ; however , the effect may have been related to a decrease in all types of afb testing . optional screening had no impact on the afb testing rate . mandatory screening significantly decreased the csf afb rate to 6.7 % ( p less than 0.001 ) , unrelated to changes in other types of afb testing . laboratories that employ mandatory screening should report the screening results immediately and have a mechanism whereby physicians can bypass the screen , providing csf afb analysis on unremarkable fluid from high-risk patients . 
plasma terminal complement complexes in acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis . in most instances of acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis ( apsgn ) , activation of the complement system occurs , as reflected by decreased levels of the complement proteins c3 , c5 , and properdin ( p ) . recent studies implicate terminal complement complexes ( tcc ) in the pathogenesis of glomerular injury . the fluid phase tcc , sc5b-9 , reflects the formation of membrane-bound c5b-9 and has been used as a clinical marker in various diseases . plasma concentrations of sc5b-9 were measured with an enzyme immunoassay using a monoclonal antibody to a neoantigen expressed on the sc5b-9 complex in 13 children who presented with clinical and pathologic features of apsgn . sc5b-9 was significantly elevated in all plasmas obtained within 30 days after onset of clinical glomerulonephritis . concentrations of sc5b-9 in acute plasmas were significantly higher than those of paired convalescent samples . for individual patients , as sc5b-9 concentration returned to normal there was a coincident decrease in serum creatinine concentration and urinary protein excretion , signifying clinical improvement in glomerulonephritis . thus , tcc generation commonly occurs in the early stages of apsgn and may be of importance in the pathogenesis of the condition . 
acute glomerulonephritis in a patient with rocky mountain spotted fever . it is generally assumed that acute tubular necrosis is the etiology of renal failure that can occur during the course of rocky mountain spotted fever ( rmsf ) . however , histologic examination of kidneys has been mainly limited to autopsy cases of fulminant infections . acute glomerulonephritis due to glomerular immune complex deposition has not been reported in rmsf . we describe a case of acute oliguric renal failure that developed more than 2 weeks following the onset of rmsf . renal biopsy showed acute glomerulonephritis with inflammatory cell infiltration and subendothelial immune deposits . thus , acute glomerulonephritis should be in the differential diagnosis of acute renal failure that occurs in rmsf . 
results of bronchoscopically obtained lower airway cultures from adult sickle cell disease patients with the acute chest syndrome . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the frequency of bacterial pneumonia as a cause of the acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease based on bronchoscopically obtained lower airway cultures and to describe the clinical , laboratory , and roentgenographic features of the acute chest syndrome in a series composed entirely of adult patients with sickle cell disease . patients and methods : we reviewed the hospital records from 19 episodes ( 18 patients ) of acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease ( greater than or equal to 19 years of age ) who had undergone flexible bronchoscopy to obtain lower airway cultures between january 1979 and july 1987 . we also recorded patients ' clinical , laboratory , and roentgenographic characteristics . results : pneumonia was diagnosed in four of 19 episodes ( 21 % ) of acute chest syndrome based on quantitative cultures obtained at bronchoscopy . the pneumonia was caused by streptococcus pneumoniae in two patients and mixed aerobic and anaerobic organisms in the other two patients . forty-four of 45 blood cultures were negative , and one grew staphylococcus epidermidis , which was considered a contaminant . chest roentgenograms revealed lower lobe involvement in 17 episodes ( 90 % ) and bilateral infiltrates in six ( 32 % ) . pleural effusions occurred in seven episodes ( 37 % ) , and pleural fluid samples obtained from five of these revealed sterile exudates . conclusion : the results of this retrospective study suggest that bacterial pneumonia is an uncommon cause of acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease . these results are consistent with previous retrospective studies using noninvasive techniques to diagnose pneumonia . nevertheless , there appeared to be no reliable noninvasive variables that could accurately differentiate between patients with and without pneumonia and , consequently , we recommend empiric antibiotic therapy in addition to usual supportive care of these patients . 
idiopathic neutropenia : antineutrophil antibodies and clinical correlations . purpose : the present study was done to evaluate the clinical characteristics of a large series of adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia , and correlate the presence of antineutrophil antibodies , their class ( igg or igm ) , and their ability to fix complement with clinical parameters , including other hemocytopenias , splenomegaly , and infections . patients and methods : one hundred twenty-one adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia were studied . serum neutrophil-binding antibodies were measured using paraformaldehyde-fixed granulocytes ( pfgs ) from normal volunteers as target cells . 125i-labeled staphylococcal protein a was used to detect igg antibodies while igm antibodies were detected by using 125i-labeled mouse monoclonal anti-igm antibody . sera containing antineutrophil antibodies were tested for their ability to fix complement on donor pfgs by using 125i-labeled monoclonal antibody to the third component of complement . results : of the 121 patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia , 71 patients had isolated neutropenia , while 50 had neutropenia combined with either anemia and/or thrombocytopenia . among the 71 patients with isolated neutropenia , there were 51 females ( 72 % ) , compared with 28 females ( 56 % ) among the 50 patients with combined hemocytopenias ( p = 0.083 ) . patients with multiple hemocytopenias were significantly older ( p less than 0.01 ) , were more likely to demonstrate splenomegaly ( p = 0.001 ) , and may have had more infectious complications . from all the patients , 36 % of sera were shown to have antineutrophil antibodies , with a non-significant trend for these to be found more frequently in patients with multiple hemocytopenias . sera with mixed igg-igm antineutrophil antibodies were significantly more likely to fix complement than those with isolated igg or igm antibodies , and among the patients with antineutrophil antibodies , complement-fixing antibodies were significantly associated with multiple hemocytopenias . splenomegaly was significantly associated both with antineutrophil antibodies ( p = 0.008 ) and with infections ( p = 0.007 ) . antineutrophil antibodies were not associated with infections . conclusions : approximately one third of adult patients with idiopathic neutropenia have igg and/or igm antineutrophil antibodies demonstrable in their serum . there is a subset of patients with idiopathic neutropenia with multiple hemocytopenias who tend to be older , less likely to show female predominance , more likely to have splenomegaly and infections , and more likely to have antineutrophil antibodies , especially mixed igg-igm and complement-fixing antibodies . 
hosts on which nymphal ixodes ricinus most abundantly feed . to identify hosts that may serve as european reservoirs for the agent of lyme disease , borrelia burgdorferi , we determined whether nymphal ixodes ricinus feed mainly on particular mice ( apodemus flavicollis or a. agrarius ) , voles ( clethrionomys glareolus ) or on sand lizards ( lacerta agilis ) and whether the abundance of these hosts corresponds to the seasonal activity of the subadult stages of the vector tick . in all sites , the mice appeared most heavily infested by larvae ; at least seven parasitized each mouse , about three per vole and four per lizard . many fewer nymphal i. ricinus parasitized a. flavicollis and c. glareolus than did larvae . although more than 30 times as many larval than nymphal ticks parasitized the two most abundant hosts ( c. glareolus and a. flavicollis ) , about 15 times as many fed on a. agrarius and twice as many on lizards . nymphal and larval ticks fed on rodents at about the same time . lizards were most abundantly parasitized by nymphs somewhat earlier than by larvae . early in the season of transmission of lyme disease , virtually all a. agrarius as well as lizards were potentially exposed to spirochetes borne by nymphal i. ricinus . we concluded that larval and nymphal i. ricinus differentially parasitize different hosts . because so many of these nymphs feed on them , a. agrarius may more effectively serve as reservoirs for the agent of lyme disease than do other putative reservoir hosts . the presence of lizards may inhibit transmission . 
postpartum amaurosis . blindness is a rare but dramatic complication of pregnancy and delivery . we present the case of a patient who developed toxemia at the time of delivery that with ineffective treatment resulted in cortical blindness without seizure activity . the pathogenesis as well as the diagnostic workup and treatment of this unusual complication are discussed . 
closed suction drainage following knee arthroplasty . effectiveness and risks . a prospective investigation was performed to determine when to remove a suction drain following total knee arthroplasty ( tka ) . forty-one tkas were randomly allocated to closed suction drainage for either 24 or 48 hours . the drain was removed and the tip was cut off and processed by a method giving quantitative cultures . in the 48-hour group , 85 % of the total volume was drained during the first 24 hours . during the following 24-hour period , a mean volume of only 50 ml was drained . no organism was isolated from cultures of drain tips sampled at 24 hours . however , at 48 hours , 25 % of the drain tips yielded light growths of coagulase-negative staphylococci ( four drain tips ) and staphylococcus aureus ( one drain tip ) . clinical evaluations of wound healing were comparable in the two groups . clearly , nothing is to be gained by continuing drainage beyond 24 hours . if drainage is maintained for longer periods , there is an increased risk of contamination by bacteria . 
prevalence of antibody to borrelia burgdorferi in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . lyme arthritis and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( jra ) share a number of clinical features . our study was performed in order to determine the prevalence of antibody to borrelia burgdorferi in 50 children with jra who reside in a nonendemic area . three patients were weakly reactive and one patient was reactive when tested using an enzyme immunoassay to detect serum antibody to b. burgdorferi . no patient , however , had definitive serologic evidence of b. burgdorferi infection by western blot analysis . we conclude that the prevalence of antibody to b. burgdorferi is very low in children with jra who reside in a nonendemic area . 
septic arthritis due to group c streptococcus : report and review of the literature . a case of polyarticular septic arthritis due to lancefield group c streptococcus is described and the clinical details of 9 reported cases of septic arthritis due to group c streptococcus reviewed . several features of the presentation and course of these patients , including polyarticular involvement ( 4/10 ) , bacteremia ( 5/10 ) , clinically important dysfunction in other systems ( 4/10 patients : cardiac , 3 ; cns , 2 ; pneumonia , 1 ; gastrointestinal , 1 ) , fatal outcome ( 3/10 patients , 2 during the course of active infection ) and poor functional outcome in affected joints ( 4/7 surviving patients ) , serve to place group c streptococcus septic arthritis as a syndrome distinct from that usually expected with streptococcal septic arthritis . specific features of the bacteriology of group c streptococcus are reviewed ( including confusion with group a streptococcus when analyzed using nonserologic methods , occasional zoonotic source , and frequency of tolerance to penicillin ) in order to emphasize the importance of both the specific identification of this particular streptococcal strain and the initiation of aggressive antibiotic therapy when group c streptococcus is identified as the causative agent in a case of septic arthritis . 
purulent pericarditis and cardiac tamponade caused by nocardia asteroides in mixed connective tissue disease . pericardial nocardiosis is extremely rare , but may affect especially immunocompromised hosts . we describe the first reported case of purulent pericarditis with cardiac tamponade as the initial presentation of systemic nocardiosis in a patient with mixed connective tissue disease . our case emphasizes the importance of identifying infectious causes of pericarditis in patients with connective tissue diseases . longterm survival was achieved with a combined medical and surgical approach . 
spermatic cord for onlay coverage of urethral defect . segmental urethral necrosis may accompany scrotoperineal gangrene , and primary closure of the urethral defect may unacceptably reduce urethral dimensions . this dilemma has been managed successfully in 5 patients by application of the intact spermatic cord to the urethral defect and approximation to its margins . a representative case is described . 
improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis by transesophageal echocardiography background . echocardiography is recognized as the method of choice for the noninvasive detection of valvular vegetations in patients with infective endocarditis , with transesophageal echocardiography being more accurate than transthoracic echocardiography . the diagnosis of associated abscesses by transthoracic echocardiography is difficult or even impossible in many cases , however , and it is not known whether transesophageal echocardiography is any better . methods . to determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis , we studied prospectively by two-dimensional transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography 118 consecutive patients with infective endocarditis of 137 native or prosthetic valves that was documented during surgery or at autopsy . results . during surgery or at autopsy , 44 patients ( 37.3 percent ) had a total of 46 definite regions of abscess . abscesses were more frequent in aortic-valve endocarditis than in infections of other valves , and the infecting organism was more often staphylococcus ( 52.3 percent of cases ) in patients with abscesses than in those without abscesses ( 16.2 percent ) . the hospital mortality rate was 22.7 percent in patients with abscesses , as compared with 13.5 percent in patients without abscesses . whereas transthoracic echocardiography identified only 13 of the 46 areas of abscess , the transesophageal approach allowed the detection of 40 regions ( p less than 0.001 ) . sensitivity and specificity for the detection of abscesses associated with endocarditis were 28.3 and 98.6 percent , respectively , for transthoracic echocardiography and 87.0 and 94.6 percent for transesophageal echocardiography ; positive and negative predictive values were 92.9 and 68.9 percent , respectively , for the transthoracic approach and 90.9 and 92.1 percent for the transesophageal approach . variation between observers was 3.4 percent for transthoracic and 4.2 percent for transesophageal echocardiography . conclusions . the data indicate that transesophageal echocardiography leads to a significant improvement in the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis . the technique facilitates the identification of patients with endocarditis who have an increased risk of death and permits earlier treatment . 
candidal infection in oral lichen planus . the prevalence of candidal infection in lichen planus ( lp ) and its possible association with ulceration were independently examined in two archived series of 108 and 77 cases derived from two separate populations . to ensure that similar material was being compared , each case was histopathologically reassessed and confirmed as lp or reclassified as nonspecific lichenoid stomatitis ( nsls ) , lichenoid dysplasia ( ld ) , or other ( o ) . three further sections , cut at 25 microns intervals , were stained with periodic acid-schiff reagent for the identification of intraepithelial candidal pseudohyphae . as control specimens , 61 normal and 59 hyperkeratotic mucosal samples were similarly processed and examined . candidal infection was found in 17.4 % and 16.4 % of ulcerated and nonulcerated lp cases , respectively , and in 40.0 % and 16.7 % of ulcerated and nonulcerated nsls cases , respectively . one case of ld was infected . each control series contained one infected case . the results indicate that candidal infection occurs more readily in lp and nsls , with no apparent association with ulceration in lp . the comparatively marked increase in the infection prevalence of ulcerated nsls can not be statistically confirmed , and its significance remains uncertain . 
the office laboratory . few areas of medicine are experiencing such tremendous growth as the office-based laboratory . recent advances in technology and changes in reimbursement practices have greatly expanded the potential of this segment of patient care . in the 1990s the physician has opportunity to introduce many testing procedures to the office laboratory that were not available 20 years ago . requirements in the areas of quality assurance and quality control are constantly changing . these regulations vary from state to state and each laboratory should know what is required by their respective certifying agency . in today 's market , the physician must choose between the referral laboratory or the resources in the office and consider which option provides the best in care and cost to the patient . 
antibiotics and infectious diseases . selection of antibiotics in clinical practice has become increasingly complex because more patients have underlying predispositions to infection , a greater variety of microorganisms with varying antibiotic resistance patterns cause these infections , and more antibiotics are available to treat these pathogens . a practical approach to antibiotic decision-making involves comparing the advantages and disadvantages of each group of antibiotics available while remembering the patient population being treated and the common pathogens encountered in one 's practice . it is helpful to study the penicillin derivatives in approximately chronologic order of development and the cephalosporins in terms of generations because this puts the use of each individual agent in perspective . familiarity with commonly encountered adverse antibiotic reactions , dosage guidelines , and special situations ( pregnancy , pediatric patients ) will help avoid problems associated with antibiotic use . finally , having one or more useful references at hand will aid in resolving questions about antibiotic use . 
sexually transmitted diseases . over the past two decades the incidence of stds has dramatically increased in the united states . most patients with these infections present first to primary care physicians . all physicians must be familiar with the common std syndromes and the indications for specific diagnostic tests in order to provide a comprehensive treatment plan . primary prevention strategies based on patient education and secondary prevention through judicious use of screening tests in appropriate settings can also limit the morbidity associated with stds . 
infectious skin diseases . descriptions of individual diseases , including impetigo , scarlet fever , and toxic shock syndrome , are presented in the context of the specific organisms that cause them . pictures are used to show some of the diseases . testing and treatment information for these diseases are included . 
antibiotics for common infections in the elderly . a decline in host defense mechanisms and concurrent diseases combine to make the elderly patient particularly susceptible to common infections . the bacterial cause and antimicrobial sensitivity patterns may also be different in the elderly . the appropriate selection and dosing of antibiotics for elderly patients with such common infections as pneumonia , bronchitis , urinary tract infections , and skin and soft-tissue infections will optimize the patient 's response while minimizing adverse consequences . 
incidence , causes and mechanism of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong . to determine the incidence and causes of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong , all 29,107 samples received in the laboratory in one year were analysed for plasma calcium and albumin , and samples with a plasma calcium concentration adjusted for albumin greater than 2.55 mmol/l were investigated . plasma calcium greater than 2.55 mmol/l was found in 462 patients . repeat samples were received from 302 of these and hypercalcaemia was confirmed in 183 . the main causes of hypercalcaemia were malignancy ( 72.1 per cent ) , tuberculosis ( 6.0 per cent ) , and primary hyperparathyroidism ( 5.5 per cent ) . in the malignant hypercalcaemia group , carcinoma of lung was the most common ( 31.8 per cent ) and carcinoma of breast was uncommon ( 3.0 per cent ) . secondary deposits in bone were detected in 35 of the 122 solid tumours . in order to identify the mechanism of hypercalcaemia the contributions of renal tubular reabsorption and increased bone resorption to the plasma calcium concentration were calculated . increased tubular reabsorption was the main contributor to hypercalcaemia in primary hyperparathyroidism and carcinoma of liver ( none of whom had bony metastases ) and it contributed significantly to hypercalcaemia in carcinoma of lung without bony metastases and carcinoma of oesophagus . we conclude that in hong kong ( a ) primary hyperparathyroidism is uncommon , ( b ) tuberculosis is an important cause and ( c ) humoral factors may be responsible for a relatively high proportion of cases of malignant hypercalcaemia . 
enhancement of hiv-1 cytocidal effects in cd4 + lymphocytes by the aids-associated mycoplasma . coinfection with mycoplasma fermentans ( incognitus strain ) enhances the ability of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 ( hiv-1 ) to induce cytopathic effects on human t lymphocytes in vitro . syncytium formation of hiv-infected t cells was essentially eliminated in the presence of m. fermentans ( incognitus strain ) , despite prominent cell death . however , replication and production of hiv-1 particles continued during the coinfection . furthermore , the supernatant from cultures coinfected with hiv-1 and the mycoplasma contained a factor that inhibited the standard reverse transcriptase enzyme assay . the modification of the biological properties of hiv-1 by coinfection with mycoplasma may be involved in the pathogenesis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . 
use of plasmid profiles in the investigation of a patient with helicobacter pylori infection and peptic ulcer disease . plasmids may effect bacterial virulence and antibiotic resistance , and serve as epidemiologic markers . in this study , plasmid dna profiles of serial isolates of helicobacter pylori showed persistence of an identical strain of this organism in a patient with duodenal ulcer disease . three control strains of h. pylori isolated from other patients contained plasmids different from each other and from that of the original patient ; two of these strains had two plasmids each . these data have important implications for further study of the epidemiology and pathogenesis of h. pylori-related diseases . 
peritoneal blastomycosis . blastomycosis is a systemic fungal infection caused by blastomyces dermatitidis . involvement of the peritoneum is unusual , with only two previously reported cases that occurred in association with disseminated disease . a single case of histopathologically proven blastomycosis involving the peritoneum is presented , as well as a short overview of previously published cases on gastrointestinal and peritoneal blastomycosis . the case is unique in that chronic peritonitis was the only manifestation of disease . the diagnosis was made by laparoscopy . 
antistaphylococcal activities of teicoplanin and vancomycin in vitro and in an experimental infection . the efficacies of vancomycin and teicoplanin in an experimental staphylococcus aureus infection in granulocytopenic mice were related to their activities in vitro and their pharmacokinetic profiles . in vitro teicoplanin had a higher intrinsic activity than vancomycin did ; and it also had a more favorable pharmacokinetic profile , resulting in higher peak concentrations in plasma , a longer elimination half-life , and a larger area under the concentration-time curve than those of vancomycin . to predict the antibacterial efficacies of the drugs in vivo on the basis of their activities in vitro and pharmacokinetics , a mathematical model was applied . in the model the in vitro effect was expressed as the difference in growth rate between control cultures and those in the presence of the antibiotic ( er ) , and the in vivo effect was expressed as the difference between numbers of cfu in control and antibiotic-treated animals ( en ) . the integral of er against time , ert , was calculated by using the concentrations found in vivo . a significant linear relationship was found between en and ert for different dosages at the same times ( 4 h ) after drug administration as well as for the same doses at consecutive times , although at the lowest doses of teicoplanin the observed effect was less than the predicted effect . 
pharmacokinetics and tissue penetration of a single dose of ornidazole ( 1,000 milligrams intravenously ) for antibiotic prophylaxis in colorectal surgery . levels in serum and tissue penetration of ornidazole were studied after a single intravenous injection of 1,000 mg given to 14 patients for prophylaxis of surgical infection . they were scheduled for elective colorectal surgery . adequate levels in blood ( greater than or equal to mic for 90 % of bacteroides fragilis strains tested ) were found in all patients throughout the procedure and up to hour 24 . mean-maximal ( 15 min ) and last-determined ( 24 h ) ornidazole levels in serum were 24 + / - 5.2 and 6.3 + / - 1.4 mg/liter , respectively . beta-phase elimination half-life was 14.1 + / - 2.7 h , and clearance and apparent volume of distribution were 47 + / - 12 ml/min and 0.9 + / - 0.13 liters/kg , respectively . in all patient , adequate levels in tissue were found in the abdominal wall and the epiploic fat at time of incision and in the colonic wall at time of anastomosis . at time of closure , all but one patient had adequate levels in tissue in the abdominal wall and the epiploic fat . no anaerobic nor aerobic infection occurred in the study patients . 
comparative study of the effects of four cephalosporins against escherichia coli in vitro and in vivo . a thigh muscle infection induced with escherichia coli in irradiated mice was used as a model to compare the in vivo pharmacodynamics of the antibacterial effect of four cephalosporins ( i.e. , cefepime , ceftriaxone , ceftazidime , and cefoperazone ) with the in vitro antibacterial pharmacodynamics of these drugs . the following in vitro pharmacodynamic parameters were determined : the maximum effect as a measure for efficacy , the 50 % effective concentration as a parameter for potency , and the slope of the concentration-effect relationship . for analysis of the in vivo antibacterial pharmacodynamics , the same parameters were applied for the dose instead of the concentration . for the detection of a relationship between concentration and antibacterial effect in vivo , we determined the pharmacokinetics of the four cephalosporins in the plasma of mice . the results showed that , in general , there is a direct relationship between the in vivo and in vitro pharmacodynamics of these cephalosporins . the maximum effects of cefepime , ceftazidime , and cefoperazone were approximately similar in vivo and in vitro . the sequence of potency of these drugs was , in descending order , cefepime , ceftazidime , and cefoperazone . ceftriaxone differed from the other three cephalosporins in that it displayed unexpected in vivo pharmacodynamics . ceftriaxone was just as efficacious as the other three in vitro , but its maximum effect in vivo was much lower . this relatively low maximum effect of ceftriaxone in vivo was not explained by the pharmacokinetic characteristics of the drug . from the present results it can be concluded that the in vitro efficacy of cephalosporins does not necessarily have a predictive value for the in vivo efficacy . 
nasal midline masses in infants and children . dermoids , encephaloceles , and gliomas . nasal dermoids , gliomas , and encephaloceles are uncommon congenital lesions that result from aberrant embryologic development . we have treated 46 children with these nasal lesions . in view of the potential intracranial connection , patients are at risk for intracranial infection , and early surgical correction is thus imperative . neuroimaging studies may help to predict intracranial involvement . 
cytomegalovirus diaper dermatitis . cytomegalovirus inclusions have been reported in perineal ulcers from immunosuppressed adults . the importance of this finding is unknown . we report the first pediatric case of cutaneous cytomegalovirus infection in an infant with congenital human immunodeficiency virus infection , presenting as a diaper dermatitis . cytomegalovirus was cultured from the skin biopsy specimen , and characteristic inclusions were seen on hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections . results of this biopsy specimen analysis prompted further investigation revealing disseminated cytomegalovirus infection , including retinitis . aggressive pursuit of a pathogen in common conditions such as diaper dermatitis is strongly recommended in immunosuppressed pediatric patients . 
the peritoneal environment during infection . the effect of monomicrobial and polymicrobial bacteria on po2 and ph. intraperitoneal ( ip ) abscesses frequently are composed of aerobes and anaerobes , and , in experimental models , a particulate adjuvant . the environmental changes effected by these components , either singularly or in combination , have not been well defined . the ip po2 , ph , and recoverable bacteria from the peritoneum of rats were quantified over 6 hours during simple aerobic and anaerobic infections and during mixed peritonitis with and without a sterile feces-barium sulfate adjuvant ( sfa ) . fourteen groups were studied , receiving intraperitoneally , at time of oxygen probe placement , 1 ml normal saline ( control ) , escherichia coli ( ec ) , bacteroides fragilis ( bf ) , sfa alone , or a mixture of ec and bf , ec and sfa , bf and sfa , or ec , bf , and sfa . control animals exhibited a stable ip po2 and ph during 6 hours . in monomicrobial ec peritonitis , inocula well below the ld50 produced an increased ip po2 and reduced arterial-peritoneal gradient ( apg ) , with a stable ip ph. by 6 hours lethal doses of ec produced a dramatic decline in ip po2 , with no change in arterial po2 as well as acidic ip and arterial phs . simple bf peritonitis caused no or minor elevations in ip and arterial po2 with no change in ph. during mixed infections a significant decline in the ip po2 and ph at 6 hours in those groups infected with both sfa and ec of a moderate , normally sublethal inoculation was observed , while arterial po2 was unchanged and arterial ph was decreased only slightly . concomitantly there was a significant increased number of aerobic bacteria in those groups with sfa as adjuvant compared to similar inocula without sfa . this study demonstrates the complex interactions of bacteria , sterile particulate adjuvant ( sfa ) , and the host peritoneum . it suggests that the combination of sfa and aerobic bacteria alter the peritoneal environment to one permitting anaerobic growth and promoting abscess formation . 
elevated plasma endothelin-1 concentrations are associated with the severity of illness in patients with sepsis . plasma immunoreactive endothelin-1 concentrations were determined by radioimmunoassay in 11 septic patients during the first 24 hours after the development of the sepsis syndrome in 15 nonseptic postoperative patients studied 24 hours after open heart surgery and in 14 healthy volunteers . mean endothelin-1 plasma concentrations were significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) increased in septic patients ( 19.9 + / - 2.2 pg/ml , mean + / - standard error ) compared to concentrations found in postoperative cardiac patients ( 11.9 + / - 0.7 pg/ml ) or in healthy volunteers ( 6.1 + / - 0.3 pg/ml ) . in septic patients elevated plasma concentrations of endothelin-1 were inversely correlated with cardiac index ( r = -0.80 , p less than 0.005 ) and positively correlated the severity of illness as documented by apache ii score ( r = 0.74 , p less than 0.01 ) and plasma creatinine levels ( r = 0.80 , p less than 0.005 ) . no such correlations were found in postoperative cardiac patients . these results indicate that endothelin-1 concentrations are correlated with the severity of illness and depression of cardiac output in patients with sepsis . 
hemodynamic effects of lobar pulmonary artery occlusion in a porcine sepsis model . we induced severe pulmonary hypertension and acute lung injury in 6 pigs by pseudomonas aeruginosa infusion . we studied the effect of pulmonary artery catheter inflation of a pulmonary artery catheter balloon in the left lower lobar pulmonary artery was accompanied by a significant ( p less than 0.05 , paired t test ) increase in pulmonary artery pressure , a decrease in left atrial pressure , a decrease in cardiac output , and a decrease in mean arterial pressure . no significant changes occurred when the catheter was advanced into the wedged position without balloon inflation . balloon inflation had no significant effect on these variables before bacterial infusion . we conclude that with sufficiently severe pulmonary hypertension in association with diffuse lung injury , lobar pulmonary artery occlusion may cause alterations in cardiac output and left atrial pressure . this may confuse interpretation of pulmonary artery catheter measurements . 
thoracoscopic debridement and pleural irrigation in the management of empyema thoracis . as a sequel to a paper reporting good results obtained in 12 patients with empyema thoracis treated by thoracoscopic debridement and irrigation in our department , subsequent experience with a further 18 patients is reported . drainage of pus and irrigation resulted in resolution of pyrexia with improvement in general condition in all patients . overall , complete resolution was obtained by this technique alone in 60 % ( 18/30 ) . of the 12 patients in whom complete resolution was not obtained , secondary surgical measures resulted in resolution of empyema in 8 . four patients died ; all were elderly and severely debilitated , 3 with advanced malignancy . their deaths were not related to the technique , which was well tolerated in all cases . thoracoscopic debridement and irrigation used routinely as a first-line measure in empyema thoracis is a safe and relatively atraumatic procedure , does not exclude the use of any subsequent surgical measure , and provides valuable time to improve the condition of debilitated patients so that they may tolerate more aggressive surgical procedures . 
an unusual complication of cardiac transplantation -- infected aortic pseudoaneurysm . infections after cardiac transplantation are a frequent cause of early morbidity and mortality . an unusual site for such a complication is at the aortic anastomotic suture line . we report a case of an infected aortic pseudoaneurysm , seen as recurrent septicemia , during the first 6 months after cardiac transplantation . 
candida pyelonephritis complicating traumatic c5 quadriplegia : diagnosis and management . we present the first reported case of candida pyelonephritis in a spinal cord injured patient . in addition to multiple courses of empiric antibiotics , the neurogenic bladder and alteration in cell-mediated immunity found in spinal cord injured patients may have increased this patient 's susceptibility to fungal disease . a 50-year-old patient with c5 motor functional quadriplegia developed candid albicans pyelonephritis while undergoing rehabilitation . the patient had several surgical procedures and multiple courses of antibiotic therapy during acute hospitalization . he continued to have a hectic fever curve , leukocytosis with increased band forms , lethargy , and progressive uremia during rehabilitation . successful investigation of the patient 's condition included assessment of serologic tests for candida precipitin antigen ; multiple blood and urine cultures ; exclusion of other causes of hectic fever ; abdominal computerized tomogram , which revealed a left kidney hypodensity with irregular margins ; and a retrograde pyelogram , which demonstrated multiple renal pelvic-filling defects . cystoscopically placed ureteral stents , which relieved the genitourinary obstruction , drained gross pus from which candida albicans was cultured ; the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed clinical improvement . pathogenesis , presentation , diagnosis , and treatment of candida pyelonephritis are reviewed . 
effect of splenectomy on morbidity and survival following curative gastrectomy for carcinoma . we performed a retrospective analysis of 392 patients who underwent curative resection of gastric adenocarcinoma to evaluate the impact of splenectomy on survival from gastric cancer and postoperative morbidity . twelve factors , including splenectomy , were associated with a poor prognosis by univariate analysis . multivariate analysis identified six of these factors , but not splenectomy , as independently predictive of death due to gastric cancer . the apparent adverse effect of splenectomy was due to its association with other significant risk factors . postoperative complications occurred more commonly in patients who underwent splenectomy than in those who did not ( 45 % vs 21 % ) ; patients in the splenectomy group also had a higher percentage of infectious complications than those in the nonsplenectomy group ( 75 % vs 47 % ) . we conclude that splenectomy has no direct influence on survival , but that it increases the morbidity of curative gastrectomy and should be avoided unless the spleen is close to or invaded by the tumor . 
cytologic diagnosis of aspergillosis in cardiac transplantation . fine-needle aspiration of the lung is now widely utilized to diagnose pulmonary neoplasms , but often serologic techniques or open-lung biopsy is relied on for the diagnosis of infectious pulmonary processes . we report a series of four patients in whom the fine-needle aspiration technique was used to make the rapid cytologic diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis . culture confirmation was also obtained on the aspirated material . a discussion of the available techniques for the laboratory diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis is presented and the advantages of fine-needle aspiration cytology are stressed . our favorable results support expanded use of fine-needle aspiration cytology in the evaluation of lung nodules appearing in immunosuppressed populations . 
nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in aids patients . objective -- to describe a nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis during four months after june 1989 . setting -- a department of infectious diseases in copenhagen , seeing about half the patients with aids in denmark . subjects -- 73 hiv antibody negative subjects and 60 antibody positive subjects admitted as inpatients during the transmission period of the outbreak ( 20 june-14 august ) , of whom 18 ( 17 with aids , one with aids related complex ) , developed cryptosporidiosis . two further hiv negative subjects ( one departmental secretary , one visiting relative ) developed cryptosporidiosis . main outcome measures -- cryptosporidia in stool samples , clinical symptoms , cd4 cell count , hiv antigen concentration , chemotherapeutic treatment . results -- the source of the outbreak was identified as ice from an ice machine in the ward , contaminated by an incontinent , psychotic patient with cryptosporidiosis picking out ice for cold drinks . the mean incubation time was at least 13 days-that is , twice that in hiv-negative patients . of the 18 patients with aids who developed cryptosporidiosis , five recovered , two were symptomless carriers , three died of unrelated causes , and eight died after prolonged diarrhoea . among the 57 exposed hiv antibody positive inpatients ( excluding two patients and the index case with cryptosporidiosis diagnosed elsewhere ) , significantly more of those who developed symptomatic cryptosporidiosis received oral sulphonamides than those who did not ( 91 % , 10/11 v 48 % , 21/44 , p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- the clinical and epidemiological findings indicate that infection was the consequence of very small inocula . increased sensitivity to cryptosporidiosis may be an unrecognised side effect of oral sulphonamide treatment in patients with aids . 
hemodialysis for acute renal failure in patients with hematologic malignancies . objective : to assess the prognosis of patients with hematologic malignancies in acute renal failure who require hemodialysis . design : retrospective study . setting : icu . patients : forty-three consecutive patients . methods : prognostic analysis using both univariate and multivariate ( stepwise regression ) methods . results : fifteen ( 35 % ) patients recovered from acute renal failure and 12 ( 28 % ) were discharged from the icu . the prognosis of patients with acute renal failure linked to sepsis is poorer than the prognosis of the patients with acute renal failure from other etiologies . only one patient survived in the former group ( n = 26 ) and 11 in the latter group ( n = 17 ) ; p less than .0001 in multivariate analysis . when accompanied by associated respiratory failure , mortality rate was higher ( 93 % vs. 33 % ; p less than .0001 ) . the simplified acute physiology score ( saps ) calculated within the first 24 hr of admission was significantly ( p less than .001 ) related to mortality when the saps was greater than or equal to 13 . the presence of neutropenia and the type of hematologic malignancy were not related to a worse prognosis . tolerance to hemodialysis appeared good , and complications were rare . 
pulmonary artery occlusion-left atrial pressure gradient : an important factor in determining pulmonary venous vascular resistance in acute pulmonary failure . objective : to determine whether pulmonary artery occlusion pressure ( paop ) accurately reflects left atrial pressure ( lap ) in acute pulmonary failure . design : sham-controlled laboratory investigation on goettingen minipigs . interventions : induction of acute respiratory failure by a 4-hr infusion of live escherichia coli bacteria in 11 animals ; two animals served as the control group . anesthesia was obtained with methohexital/piritramide and pancuronium bromide . measurements and main results : cardiac output and pressures were measured by means of femoral artery , pulmonary artery , and left atrial catheters . arterial-alveolar po2 ratio was calculated to evaluate pulmonary function . measurements were obtained before and after 1 and 2 hr of the e. coli infusion . statistical significance was tested with analysis of variance . e. coli infusion caused the hypodynamic shock and respiratory failure . the paop-lap gradient was -0.3 + / - 1.6 mm hg before bacteremia and increased significantly ( p less than .001 ) to 2.9 + / - 1.8 and 3.4 + / - 2.0 mm hg after 1 and 2 hr of bacteremia , respectively . no significant changes occurred in the sham group . conclusions : a paop-lap gradient may develop during acute respiratory failure . therefore , pulmonary venous vascular resistance may be underestimated if its determination is based on paop . an increase in bronchial to pulmonary blood flow and pulmonary venoconstriction are discussed as hypothetical causes of a paop-lap gradient during acute respiratory failure . 
postoperative irrigation-suction drainage after pelvic colonic surgery . a prospective randomized trial . a 2-year randomized prospective clinical trial was undertaken to determine whether postoperative irrigation of the pelvis would result in a decreased incidence of local septic complications . two hundred consecutive patients undergoing low pelvic procedures with rectal resection and entry of the presacral space by a single surgeon , were randomized . in the irrigation group , two of four presacral sump drains were placed to low intermittent suction and the remaining sumps infused continuously with saline until the effluent was clear . in the drainage alone group , all four presacral sump drains were placed to suction . drains were removed when drainage was less than 50 ml/24 hours . perioperative antibiotics and bowel preparation were identical . postoperative complications included pelvic abscess ( n = 7 ) , anastomotic leak/cuff sinus ( n = 11 ) , abdominal wound infection ( n = 19 ) , and perineal wound infection ( n = 5 ) . postoperative irrigation of the pelvis did not result in a reduction in the overall rate of local pelvic septic complications . positive intraoperative presacral cultures , the presence of anaerobes in the presacral space , and duration of pelvic drainage had no effect on the development of pelvic sepsis . 
clostridium difficile -- a common and costly colitis . clostridium difficile infection manifests as a self-limiting diarrhea , protracted colitis , or toxic pseudomembranous colitis . the incidence of c. difficile in a 514-bed community hospital was studied retrospectively ; 155 patients of a total 18,262 admitted during 1988 were identified with c. difficile as an admitting or subsequent diagnosis . the method of diagnosis , mode of therapy , and related costs were analyzed . we have determined that education , with an emphasis on pathogenesis and prevention , is necessary to reduce the incidence in the hospital and the cost to the patient . 
vaccination with legionella pneumophila membranes induces cell-mediated and protective immunity in a guinea pig model of legionnaires ' disease . protective immunity independent of the major secretory protein of legionella pneumophila . we have examined the capacity of legionella pneumophila membranes to induce cell-mediated immune responses and protective immunity in a guinea pig model of legionnaires ' disease . guinea pigs immunized by aerosol with l. pneumophila membranes developed strong cell-mediated immune responses to l. pneumophila membranes as demonstrated by cutaneous delayed-type hypersensitivity and in vitro splenic lymphocyte proliferation . guinea pigs immunized by aerosol or by subcutaneous inoculation with l. pneumophila membranes developed strong protective immunity against lethal aerosol challenge with l. pneumophila . overall , in six independent experiments , 39 of 49 ( 80 % ) guinea pigs immunized with l. pneumophila membranes survived challenge compared with 2 of 40 ( 5 % ) sham-immunized controls ( p = 2 x 10 ( -13 ) . in contrast , guinea pigs immunized by aerosol with formalin-killed l. pneumophila did not develop either a strong cell-mediated immune response to l. pneumophila antigens or protective immunity to lethal aerosol challenge . the capacity of l. pneumophila membranes to induce protective immunity was independent of the major secretory protein of l. pneumophila , which we previously demonstrated is an immunoprotective molecule . purified l. pneumophila membranes did not contain detectable major secretory protein ( msp ) on immunoblots ; immunization of guinea pigs with l. pneumophila membranes did not induce anti-msp antibody ; and guinea pigs developed comparable protective immunity after immunization with membranes from either an l. pneumophila strain that secretes the major secretory protein or an isogenic mutant that does not . this study demonstrates that ( a ) immunization with l. pneumophila membranes but not formalin-killed l. pneumophila induces strong cell-mediated immune responses and protective immunity , ( b ) l. pneumophila membranes contain immunoprotective molecules distinct from the major secretory protein of l. pneumophila , and ( c ) l. pneumophila membranes have potential as a vaccine against legionnaires ' disease . 
mycoplasma pulmonis infections cause long-lasting potentiation of neurogenic inflammation in the respiratory tract of the rat . these experiments were done to learn whether mycoplasma pulmonis infections of the respiratory tract of rats can potentiate " neurogenic inflammation " and whether this potentiation is amplified by factors that exacerbate the infections . pathogen-free f344 rats were inoculated intranasally with m. pulmonis or with sterile culture medium and then lived for 4 wk in an ammonia-free atmosphere or in air containing ammonia ( 100 parts per million ) . neurogenic inflammation was evoked by an intravenous injection of capsaicin , and 5 min later the magnitude of the response was quantified by measuring the amount of extravasation of two tracers , monastral blue pigment and evans blue dye . we found that vascular permeability in the tracheas of all rats was normal in the absence of capsaicin . however , a 75-micrograms/kg dose of capsaicin , which caused almost no extravasation of evans blue in the tracheas of pathogen-free controls ( 17 + / - 3 ng/mg ; mean + / - se ) , produced extensive extravasation in the infected rats ( 135 + / - 18 ng/mg ; p less than 0.001 ) . similarly , this dose of capsaicin produced 30 times as much monastral blue extravasation in the infected rats ( area density = 47 + / - 8 % of surface area ) as it did in the pathogen-free rats ( 1.6 + / - 0.5 % ; p less than 0.001 ) , a difference that resulted from increases in the number of monastral blue-labeled postcapillary venules and in the amount of labeling per venule . exposure of the infected rats to ammonia exacerbated the infections , further increased the number of monastral blue-labeled vessels and the amount of labeling per vessel , and made the rats so sensitive to capsaicin that a normally tolerable dose of 150 micrograms/kg i.v. caused fatal apnea . ammonia did not have these effects in pathogen-free rats . we conclude that m. pulmonis infections of the airway mucosa cause a potent , long-lasting potentiation of neurogenic inflammation , which results in part from an increase in the number and responsiveness of mediator-sensitive postcapillary venules . these changes can be amplified by environmental factors such as ammonia which exacerbate the infections . 
rhodococcus infection of the skin with lymphadenitis in a nonimmunocompromised girl . a 7-year-old girl had a 4 x 3 x 3 cm nodule on the left wrist with axillary lymphadenopathy . acid-fast bacilli were seen on a smear from a biopsy specimen of this granulomatous skin lesion . a rhodococcus species grew on culture . skin infections caused by rhodococcus may be more common than the few prior case reports suggest . 
successful treatment of disseminated cutaneous cytomegalic inclusion disease associated with hodgkin 's disease . a case of disseminated cutaneous cytomegalic inclusion disease associated with hodgkin 's disease is described . the patient had a diffuse eruption of pruritic , erosive erythematous nodules . histologically , many inclusion bodies were observed in perivascular areas of the skin lesions . immunohistologically , the inclusion bodies positively stained with both anticytomegalovirus antibody and anti-factor viii-related antibody . on electron microscopy many virus particles and dense bodies were found in the area where inclusion bodies were observed . treatment with high-dose intravenous acyclovir and a large amount of immunoglobulin resulted in prompt healing of the skin lesions . subsequently , the patient 's hodgkin 's disease was well controlled on chemotherapy . the patient steadily improved without relapse of skin lesions 1 year after antiviral therapy was administered . 
group a streptococcal cellulitis-adenitis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a rapidly enlarging left inguinal adenitis , with positive groove sign , and fever , chills , malaise , hypotension , headache , scarlatiniform rash , choleroid diarrhea , and proteinuria developed in an homosexual man who was positive for human immunodeficiency virus . the needle aspiration of the inguinal mass showed group a beta-hemolytic streptococci and the blood cultures were negative , suggesting group a streptococcal cellulitis-adenitis with toxic strep syndrome . treatment with penicillin and surgical drainage was successful . bacterial infections associated with defective humoral immunity appear to be common in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , and some of these infections have a remarkable extensive and lethal evolution . therefore streptococcal adenitis should be considered in any patient with aids or aids-related syndrome in whom rapidly enlarging inguinal nodes develop . 
patrick watson-williams and the concept of focal sepsis in the sinuses : an historical caveat for functional endoscopic sinus surgery . from 1900 to 1940 the theory of focal sepsis was invoked to justify a number of dubious surgical procedures . surgeons believed they were acting rationally . patrick watson-williams advocated suction exploration of the paranasal sinuses for mental patients , claiming to cure criminal insanity by sphenoidotomy . favourable contemporary reviews showed international approval . the rational basis of treatment was emphasised , but there was little systematic evaluation of outcome . current enthusiasm for functional endoscopic sinus surgery is also based on a rational approach , logical deductions from pathophysiological ' facts ' . outcome has still not been evaluated scientifically . we should learn from history . treatment should not be based too readily on what seems to be rational now . ideas of physiology and pathology change . what seems logical today may appear ridiculous tomorrow . careful analysis of outcome , preferably by controlled clinical trials , is needed as a rational treatment requires empirical validation just as much as any other . 
apparent increase in the incidence of invasive group a beta-hemolytic streptococcal disease in children . recently , among adults , an increase in the incidence of invasive disease caused by group a beta-hemolytic streptococci ( gabs ) has been noted , as has the appearance of a severe illness called " toxic shock-like syndrome , " also caused by gabs . we now report an apparent increase beginning in 1987 in the incidence of invasive disease caused by gabs in children . among these patients the manifestations were varied . one child had signs and symptoms compatible with the streptococcal toxic shock-like syndrome . among the gabs isolates from our patients , 8 ( 80 % ) of 10 evaluated for m-protein antigens were nontypeable . further studies will be necessary to determine the relationship between serotypes and virulence of gabs . physicians should be aware of the possibility of an increasing incidence of invasive gabs disease in children , as well as its manifestations , which may include toxic shock-like syndrome . 
changes in cardiac function during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn infant . the effects of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) on cardiac function and its determinants ( preload , afterload , contractility , and heart rate ) are largely unknown , although some evidence exists that function may decrease . to determine whether cardiac function decreases and what changes in the determinants take place during and after ecmo , we observed 26 newborn infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension . serial echocardiograms were performed before ecmo , during maximum cardiopulmonary bypass , and after ecmo . cardiac function was assessed by using standard echographic ejection phase indices ( shortening fraction and cardiac output ) . heart rate , preload ( left ventricular end-diastolic dimension and area ) , afterload ( left ventricular end-systolic wall stress ) , and contractility ( relationship between velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and wall stress ) were also measured . ejection phase indices significantly decreased during ecmo ( shortening fraction 33 % to 25 % , cardiac output 205 to 113 ml/kg/min ; p less than 0.05 ) and returned to normal after ecmo ( shortening fraction 26 % to 34 % , cardiac output 107 to 240 ml/kg/per minute ; p less than 0.05 ) . heart rate also significantly decreased during ecmo ( 158 to 118 beats/min ; p less than 0.05 ) . preload significantly increased after ecmo ( left ventricular end-diastolic dimension 1.4 to 1.6 cm , left ventricular end-diastolic area 1.9 to 2.2 cm2 ; p less than 0.05 ) . there were no significant changes in contractility and afterload during any study period . we conclude that , although left ventricular ejection phase indices and heart rate decreased during ecmo , these changes were transient and resolved when bypass was terminated . contractility and afterload did not appear affected by bypass . 
discriminate use of electrocautery on the median sternotomy incision . a 0.16 % wound infection rate . between june 1978 and june 1989 , superficial or deep mediastinitis ( or both ) developed in only five ( 0.16 % ) of 3118 consecutive patients . all patients studied underwent cardiac procedures through a median sternotomy and survived more than 7 postoperative days . the surgical team disciplined itself to divide presternal soft tissues with a scalpel and used electrocautery for pinpoint hemostasis only . this 0.16 % infection rate was statistically significantly lower than those in 28 previously published studies ( pearson 's chi 2 test , p less than 0.05 ) . twenty-four predisposing factors were evaluated by fisher 's exact test . among these only an operating time longer than 3 hours is related to sternotomy infections ( p = 0.0208 ) , and this effect was not a strong one . statistical evidence strongly suggests that discriminate use of electrocautery is a major reason for the lowest median sternotomy infection rate reported to date . 
cortisol response to corticotropin and survival in septic shock corticotropin stimulation tests were used to assess adrenocortical function in 32 patients with septic shock . 13 patients had a poor cortisol response ( rise less than 250 nmol/l ) to corticotropin , all of whom died . however , there were only 6 deaths among the 19 patients with adequate responses ( p less than 0.001 ) . these results suggest that some patients with septic shock may have relative adrenocortical insufficiency . 
severity of cystic fibrosis in patients homozygous and heterozygous for delta f508 mutation . to assess the relation between genotype and severity of disease in cystic fibrosis ( cf ) the frequencies and extent of several features of its phenotypic expression were investigated in the 235 patients who attend the danish cf centre . 14 patients who attend irregularly and 3 who do not carry the delta f508 mutation at all were excluded . the case-reports of the remaining 218 patients ( aged 4 months to 41 years ) were carefully evaluated , and they were all analysed for the delta f508 mutation . 172 ( 79 % ) were homozygous for delta f508 and 46 ( 20 % ) were heterozygous . the mutation therefore occurs on 89 % of the chromosomes analysed . there were no significant differences between the homozygous and heterozygous groups in the proportions with meconium ileus at birth , liver involvement , or chronic pseudomonas aeruginosa infection . however , significantly more of the homozygous patients had onset of symptoms before the age of 6 months ( p less than 0.025 ) ; they were significantly younger at diagnosis ( p = 0.013 ) and centre referral ( p = 0.006 ) ; they required greater pancreatic enzyme substitution ( p = 0.0002 ) and had poorer lung function ; and the calculated yearly incidence of chronic ps aeruginosa infection and yearly mortality rates were greater than in heterozygous patients ( p = 0.0001 ) . 
intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis : a combined institutional review . intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis constitute true surgical and medical emergencies . the charts of all patients ( n = 649 ) admitted for acute or chronic sinusitis to the university of minnesota hospital and to the university of michigan medical center during a 13-year period ( 1975 to 1988 ) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the incidence of complications . the clinical presentation , bacteriology , involved sinuses , influencing host factors , white blood cell count on presentation , length of hospitalization , and postinterventional complications are presented . twenty-four patients with intracranial complications from paranasal sinusitis are studied for an incidence of 3.7 % . aggressive medical and semi-emergent surgical intervention are required to prevent excessive morbidity and/or mortality . intracranial complications included subdural empyema , frontal lobe abscesses , intrahemispheric abscesses , cavernous and superior sagittal sinus thrombosis , and osteomyelitis . 
managing skin infections in children . because neonates and very young children have little or no immunity to common streptococci and staphylococci , skin infections caused by these organisms must be regarded warily . prompt and proper treatment may be critical in preventing progression of the lesions and averting systemic complications . 
screening for sexually transmitted diseases by primary care physicians . the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome epidemic has drawn attention to screening for sexually transmitted diseases by primary care physicians . a telephone survey of primary care physicians in an area with a high incidence of stds ( washington , dc ) to ascertain the determinants and the extent of screening and counseling for stds was completed in 1987 . ninety-nine physicians ( 33 internists , 38 obstetrician/gynecologists , and 28 family/general practitioners ) , representing 61 % of those eligible , completed the interview . one third ( 39.4 % ) were screening for gonorrhea , more than one half ( 57.5 % ) for syphilis , and almost all ( 94 % ) had tested at least one individual for human immunodeficiency virus infection . analysis suggested that concomitant screening for hepatitis b was significantly and positively associated with screening for gonorrhea and syphilis . less than half ( 45.9 % ) of the physicians asked new patients about their sexual practices . physicians should take histories of sexual practices and do more preventive counseling . 
community-acquired pulmonary infections in a public municipal hospital in the 1980s . the relative and absolute incidences of community-acquired bacterial and tuberculous pulmonary infections , in patients admitted to a public municipal hospital , and the clinical and radiographic characteristics of these infections were retrospectively determined for the first time in 20 years . the data were compared to those previously reported in the literature . such data were also specifically determined for alcoholics and compared to those found in nonalcoholics . the absolute numbers of infections due to pneumococci and anaerobes , and to tuberculosis , were not dissimilar to those reported in the literature , even though relatively few hemophilus infections were documented . the lack of klebsiella sp infections was remarkable but not unexpected . alcoholic patients had significantly higher rates of tuberculosis , cavitary disease , lung disease presumably due to anaerobes , and blood-culture-positive pneumonia . the relative concordance of our results for bacterial and tuberculous infections with those predicted from the published literature was striking . the high frequency of tuberculosis in our patients was particularly striking at a time when the incidence of tuberculosis nationwide , in patients without acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , has declined significantly . 
false-positive results in serologic tests for rocky mountain spotted fever during pregnancy . the data from this study demonstrate that false-positive results from tests for rocky mountain spotted fever increase with the duration of pregnancy . the sera of 4.0 % ( 2/50 ) of women in their first trimester of pregnancy , 10.9 % ( 5/46 ) in their second trimester , and 12.1 % ( 12/99 ) in their third trimester yielded false-positive results from latex agglutination assays for rickettsia rickettsii infections . the cause of these false-positive results was not determined by this study . these false-positive titers were not associated with clinical findings or other laboratory abnormalities . even though these sera did not contain antibodies to r rickettsii detectable by indirect fluorescent antibody testing , such false-positive results from serologic tests for rocky mountain spotted fever can obscure the patient 's correct diagnosis . this may lead to the unnecessary use of potentially toxic antibodies and prevent initiation of appropriate therapy . 
postanginal sepsis with dysphagia . we have described a 10-year-old girl who had dysphagia followed abruptly by arthritis . streptococcus pyogenes was identified as the pathogen by fasciotomy with bone biopsy , and a tonsillar fluid collection confirmed the diagnosis of postanginal sepsis . the patient was cured by a 6-week course of parenteral antibiotics . 
profound papilledema due to cryptococcal meningitis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome : successful treatment with fluconazole . although cryptococcal meningitis is a frequent infection in patients with aids , papilledema is rarely reported . we have reported a case of profound papilledema associated with cryptococcal meningitis in a patient with aids . after treatment failure with amphotericin b , the patient was successfully treated with fluconazole , and the papilledema resolved . 
a case of neonatal tetanus . the morbidity and mortality from neonatal tetanus are preventable . it is largely a disease of developing countries . this single case of neonatal tetanus in southern florida must serve as an indicator for the need for health care professionals to evaluate the degree of utilization of maternal health services and the impact of immunization programs for those women at risk , in this case , women who have migrated from developing countries . 
focal hepatic tuberculosis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . patients infected with hiv are known to have unusual manifestations of a variety of infections . we have described the third reported case of a patient with aids having an apparent pyogenic liver abscess subsequently diagnosed as focal hepatic tuberculosis . this case emphasizes the need for aggressive diagnostic procedures for evaluation of focal liver abnormalities in these patients . 
stomatococcus mucilaginosus catheter-related infection in an adolescent with osteosarcoma . ours is apparently the first reported pediatric case of stomatococcus mucilaginosus bacteremia . it is the second reported case of s mucilaginosus catheter-associated infection , but the first case successfully treated without removing the central venous catheter . this unusual organism should be added to the list of opportunistic pathogens that can be isolated from immunocompromised pediatric patients . 
bacterial translocation from the gut impairs systemic immunity . the goal of this study was to determine the influence of bacterial translocation on systemic immunity , since bacteria and their products play a major role in the development and maintenance of the host 's immune system . to test this hypothesis , we measured the blastogenic response of mononuclear cells harvested from the blood , spleen , peyer 's patches , and mesenteric lymph nodes of control and escherichia coli c25 monoassociated mice to a battery of mitogens . the e. coli c25 monoassociation model was used because this bacterial translocation model is not associated with experimental manipulations that are likely to affect the systemic immune system . the mitogenic response of lymphocytes isolated from the e. coli c25 monoassociated mice was significantly depressed compared to the control groups ( p less than 0.01 ) . since the biologic significance of depressed in vitro mitogen responsiveness is difficult to determine , we assessed the ability of the mice to control a bacterial challenge using an in vivo staphylococcus aureus abscess model . it appears that the observed changes in mitogen responsiveness may be of biologic significance , since the ability of the e. coli c25 monoassociated mice to control the injected s. aureus was impaired ( p less than 0.01 ) . these results suggest that an association exists between bacterial translocation and decreased systemic immune responsiveness . 
bilateral emphysematous pyelonephritis . emphysematous pyelonephritis is an uncommon and serious infection associated with gas-forming coliform bacteria . bilateral involvement is rare with only 10 reported cases in the english literature . prompt and aggressive management is required to salvage these patients . preservation of renal function using broad-spectrum antibiotics and surgical drainage provide the greatest benefit to these patients . three new cases are presented with a brief review of the results of management in the reported cases . 
cephalosporins : rationale for clinical use . cephalosporins , the most widely used class of antibiotics , are more resistant than penicillins to inactivation by beta-lactamases . based on their spectrum of activity against gram-negative bacteria , cephalosporins are classified into three generations . the generation classification , however , does not correlate with activity against gram-positive bacteria or anaerobes . first-generation cephalosporins have a narrow gram-negative spectrum but are most active against gram-positive bacteria , particularly staphylococcus aureus . third-generation compounds have excellent activity against gram-negative bacteria . the cephamycins , a second-generation subgroup that includes cefoxitin , cefotetan and cefmetazole , have the best activity against anaerobes . 
extraction of implanted transvenous pacing leads : a review of a persistent clinical problem . within a few months of implantation , permanent pacemaker leads become ensheathed in fibrocollagenous tissue . this tissue may anchor the lead so that it is difficult , dangerous , or impossible to remove it . leads with bulbous or finned tips are particularly resistant to extraction . the risks of applying traction to an entrapped lead include induction of bradycardia or ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation , invagination of the right ventricle , avulsion of the right ventricular myocardium or tricuspid valve , hemopericardium , and cardiac tamponade . forceful traction may result in uncoiling of the conductor , disruption of the insulation , or complete fracture , leaving an intravascular remnant that may embolize or be a source for thrombosis . although fixation and abandonment of an inactive chronically implanted lead is frequently appropriate and is known to pose little long-term risk , the retained inactive lead may interact adversely with a new active lead and then increase the risk of venous thrombosis , serve as a potential nidus for infection , or produce spurious electrical sensing signals that may be sensed by the pulse generator . absolute indications for lead removal are those in which there would be a life-threatening situation if the lead were to remain in situ . in the absence of an absolute indication , the decision to proceed with extraction must be made by weighing the potential for serious morbidity or mortality against risks of the extraction technique . techniques for lead removal include traction and open cardiotomy operations . when a portion of the lead is intravascular , forceps , snares , baskets , countertraction , or lead-transection devices may be used to retrieve the fragment . 
empiric antibiotic selection by physicians : evaluation of reasoning strategies . the objectives of the study were to evaluate the appropriateness of empiric antibiotic selection by housestaff treating medical patients with bacteremia . the design was a prospective , observational study at a university-affiliated hospital . seventy-eight patients with bacteremia were evaluated . a clinical grade of acceptable or not acceptable was assigned to each antibiotic prescription by a consensus panel . the consensus panel found that 34.6 % of antibiotic prescriptions were unacceptable ( clinical grade ) . at least one flaw in the chain of reasoning was found in 56.4 % of the 78 cases evaluated . assessment of the clinical setting was correct in 94.9 % of the cases ; the portal of entry was identified in 91 % ; adequate knowledge of the bacterial flora at the suspected site of infection was found in 69 % ; the diagnostic workup was appropriate in 81 % , and the correct antibiotic susceptibility patterns were given in 72 % . a correct chain of reasoning was more likely to result in an acceptable clinical grade than flawed reasoning ( p less than 0.005 ) . however , an appropriate antibiotic selection was made by some physicians despite flawed reasoning , and inappropriate antibiotic selection occurred in a few cases despite fautless reasoning . in 3.8 % of cases , unexpected organisms appeared in blood culture . prescription of broad spectrum antibiotics may then be learned response . if so , educational efforts that emphasize narrow , rather than broad spectrum prescribing may be inadequate to change physician prescribing habits . 
gonococcal endocarditis : twenty-five year experience . gonococcal endocarditis is a devastating albeit rare complication of disseminated gonorrhea . it virtually disappeared as a disease entity with the advent of antibiotic therapy . recently , it has reappeared with surprisingly high frequency for unclear reasons . since 1983 , the authors have observed six episodes of this disease in five patients , the largest series reported to date . it is predominantly a disease of young people without underlying valvular heart disease . characteristic clinical features include a high frequency of congestive heart failure and nephritis and a proclivity for aortic valve involvement , commonly with associated ring abscess , and large vegetations . genitourinary symptoms , arthralgias , and rash are uncommon . previously undescribed features include involvement of all four valves simultaneously , recurrence on an aortic valve prosthesis , and a high frequency of terminal complement deficiencies . precipitous hemodynamic deterioration despite appropriate therapy is not uncommon , and overall mortality rate remains an alarming 19 % . 
